# 007_DB_Research_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

How defence spending will shrink 
global imbalances and weaken US

1 
Authors 
Oliver Harvey 
Macro Strategist

Mallika Sachdeva 
Strategist

May 12, 2026 
In this note we argue that US withdrawal from security alliances established after 
the Second World War will result in a fall in global savings. This is as allies seek 
greater strategic autonomy in three key areas: defence, energy and technology. 
These areas are highly investment intensive and history suggests that when 
spending on these sectors rise, private consumption and investment do not fall 
sufficiently to offset the effect on savings. The result should be lower global 
savings and higher interest rates. 
Because the regions most affected by a changing US relationship are also the 
world's largest net savers (in other words, they run the lion's share of global  
current account surpluses), the result should be a fall in global imbalances. 
There will be less recycling of savings out of Europe, Asia and the Middle East into 
the US and this will act as a material headwind for the dollar. For the sake of 
coherence, we focus in this note specifically on the defence angle but aim to 
build on this framework in the future when it comes to both energy infrastructure 
investment and technology. 
The rapid global rise in defence expenditure  
The recent conflict in Iran will accelerate an existing global trend: rising 
expenditure on defence. According to data from the SIPRI database, 2024 saw 
the largest rise in defence spending in real terms since data is available (the late 
1980s - figure 1). Defence spending is set to rise over coming years, both in real 
terms and as a percentage of GDP . At the 2025 NATO summit in The Hague, 
member states committed to a 5% GDP spending target on defence and 
security-related spending by 2035.1 Outside of NATO, Japan has committed to 
doubling its defence spending to 2% GDP by 2027, two years ahead of its original 
schedule. The Korean government has pledged to increase defence spending by 
8.2% this year.2 China has also been significantly increasing defence spending, 
by 7% in 2026 and Russian defence expenditure has grown dramatically since 
the start of its invasion of Ukraine.3

1 NATO, April 2026 
2 Yonhap news agency, October 2025 
3 Reuters March 5th 2026


===== Page 2 =====

Page 2 Deutsche Bank AG
have undoubtedly played an important role. The security umbrella established after
the Second World War has come under strain from recent US policy decisions,
including the withdrawal of military and financial support for Ukraine, tensions with
EU allies over Greenland and most recently criticism of NATO allies over their
decision not to back the recent US war against Iran. We have written in detail about
increasing US reluctance to continue to provide 'global public goods' such as

upholding an open international economic system and underpin western security,
with the US pursuing a more self-interested policy agenda and exercising hard
power and its economic networks more forcefully. 4 This in turn is an important
motivating factor for US allies to pursue strategic autonomy in defence, as well as
other areas such as energy and technology.
Figure 1: Fastest increase in global defence spending in
decades in 2024
Source : Deutsche Bank, SIPRI Defence Database

Figure 2: Reflecting extremely elevated levels of
geopolitical risk and policy uncertainty
Source : Deutsche Bank, Caldara, Dario and Matteo Iacoviello (2022), “Measuring Geopolitical Risk,”
American Economic Review, April, 112(4), pp.1194-1225. Baker, Bloom and Davis.
Rising defence expenditure: falling global savings
To understand better what impact rising defence expenditure could have on the
global economy, we turn to the historical record. We make three important

observations.
First, never underestimate how quickly defence expenditure can increase,
especially if threat perceptions change. Back in September last year, we highlighted
the period of rearmament during the 1930s as a useful historical parallel. Defence
expenditure rose dramatically across future belligerents in only a few years. For
example, defence spending as a share of GDP between 1935 and 1938 rose 2.5%
for Italy, 3.7% for the UK, 8% for Germany and 17% for Japan (figure 3).

Second, fiscal constraints can be overstated. Although Britain's debt to GDP stood
at well above 160% in the mid 1930s, the country was still able to significantly ramp
up defence expenditure. Arguably, the most basic function of a state is to protect
its citizens and guard its sovereignty. As such, if threat perceptions increase,
defence spending tends to trump other spending priorities.
4 See, DB Special Report, "The Unruly hegemon; what a decline in US leadership means for markets,"

March 2025, EM Blog: Venezuela, hard power, geoeconomics and hemispheric dominance, January
2026 and "Geoeconomics 101," January 2026
0501001502002503008589939701050913172125Composite geopolitical risk and policy uncertainty index, 1 year rolling average
-8%-6%-4%-2%0%2%4%6%8%10%12%Global defence spending, constant USD, yoy change
While the drivers of increasing defence spending are various (including rising
nationalism, increased competition for raw materials), recent shifts in US policy

12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 3 =====

Deutsche Bank AG Page 3
Third, rising defence expenditure tends to be associated with falling savings. From
a national income perspective, defence expenditure can largely be accounted for
through increased investment and government consumption. An important if not
crucial question is whether this comes at the expense of private consumption
(leaving the savings rate unchanged) or whether consumption does not fully
compensate (reducing overall saving).

There is evidence to suggest that household consumption does fall during periods
of re-armament. For example, in 1930s Nazi Germany, economic historians have
described forms of moral suasion such as national savings days to increase
available funding for the military, before the 1936 Four Year Plan saw rationing of
raw materials and consumption goods which limited household spending
opportunities. It is also possible that the uncertainty caused by a more volatile world

prompts households to save for precautionary purposes.
Nevertheless, efforts to increase national saving were never powerful enough to
offset the demands of military investment at an aggregate level, reflected
Germany's chronic current account deficit. And at the less extreme end of the
spectrum, evidence also suggests that savings rates do fall. This was true in the UK
during the late 1930s and the US following the start of the Vietnam War (figures 5

& 6).5 There is also strong theoretical evidence to suggest that defence spending is
not subject to the same Ricardian constraints as other government
spending.Government spending on defence does not crowd out other forms of
spending because without it, the government is no longer able to protect the ability
of households to save for the future or bass on bequests to future generations. 6
Figure 3: Defence expenditure rose dramatically among
belligerents in the run up to WW2

0
5
10
15
20
25 Defence spending as % GDP
1920 1925 1930 1935 1938
Source : Deutsche Bank, Eloranta, J. "Pro Bono Publico? Demand for Military Spending Between the
World Wars," Economic and Business History Society, 2017
Figure 4: British defence spending rose in the 1930s in
spite of very high debt levels
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
UK defence spending, % GDP
Debt, % GDP, rhs
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bank of England Millennium of Macroeconomic Data

5 The UK savings rate does initially rise in the immediate aftermath of rearmament. However, this
continued a trend established since the 1932 recession and rearmament did not truly start until 1937
after which national savings fell
6 See Seiglie, "Defence Spending in a Neo-Ricardian World." 1998
12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 4 =====

Page 4 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 5: Savings rates initially rose then fell rapidly
following re-armament in the 1930s
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
Net national savings rate, % GDP, UK
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bank of England Millennium of Macroeconomic Data, * dotted lines represent
start of rearmament
Figure 6: They fell almost immediately in the Vietnam War
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
14
55 57 59 61 63 65 67 69 71 73 75
Net national savings rate, % GDP, US
Source : Deutsche Bank, St Louis Fed, dotted lines represent start of rearmament

As we shall see, these observations have potentially highly important implications
for global asset prices. We would note that while this report focuses specifically on
defence, there are other sectors in which investment is likely to increase due to
changing global political economy, especially energy infrastructure and
technology. This should act to magnify the effect on global savings, even if the
theoretical effect is clearest in the defence sector.

Falling global savings: shrinking global imbalances
Should increased defence expenditure globally act to increase investment without
a corresponding fall in consumption, as we expect, the effect should be to raise
interest rates, all being equal. In the long run, economic theory posits that the
neutral rate of interest should be determined by the supply of and demand for
savings.7
In the long run is an important caveat. In the short term, fiscal and monetary policy

can also act to dampen the transmission channel. For example, during the Second
World War, when British savings rates fell to very low levels, market interest rates
remained extremely low. In part this was due to widespread financial repression
policies, including capital controls, mandatory holdings of government debt and
borrowing and consumer restrictions.8
We should be careful in taking the 1930s comparison too far when it comes to the
current geopolitical environment. But governments will be confronted with hard

choices when it comes to financing additional defence expenditure, especially
where public debt to GDP is already at high levels, and given that welfare spending
is considerably higher as a share of GDP than 90 years ago. The interplay between
defence expenditure, interest rates and government policy is especially relevant
when it comes to international capital flows, which we focus on next.
This is because in an era of capital mobility, another important consequence of

rising defence expenditure will be its effect on global imbalances. The world's
largest net savers (those running the largest current account surpluses) are
7 For example, Federal Reserve Bank of San Francisco Economic Letter, April 2025
8 Mark Harrison, "Paying the price for war." University of Warwick
12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 5 =====

Deutsche Bank AG Page 5
concentrated in three regions: Europe, East Asia and the Middle East (figure 9).
These regions are also those seeing the largest increases in defence expenditure
(figure 8), and where defence expenditure needs are likely to be the most
pronounced over coming years.
Figure 7: In the Second World War, the government used financial repression to
keep rates low despite collapsing savings
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18-10
-5
0
5
10
15

20
25
30
1855
1860
1865
1870
1875
1880
1885
1890
1895
1900
1905
1910
1915
1920
1925
1930
1935
1940
1945
1950
1955
1960
1965
1970
1975
1980
1985
1990
1995
2000
2005
2010
2015
UK savings rate, lhs UK commercial paper rate, %, inverted
Financial
repression
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bank of England Millennium of Macroeconomic Data
Increased defence expenditure will act to reduce global imbalances by reducing net
savings in these three regions, in other words falling current account surpluses. But

how will defence expenditure be financed? The quid pro quo of smaller current
account surpluses should be reduced recycling of savings abroad via the financial
account. From a political perspective, there are strong incentives to meet domestic
financing needs from private savings rather than increased taxation or central bank
financing. For one, it would be less politically unpopular than raising tax or inflation.
For another, it reduces economic interdependencies which can make sovereign

states vulnerable.
Indeed, as we noted in a recent note, tapping private savings was was a key channel
of financing defence expenditure in World Wars 1 & 2. An even more extreme
version of this could be outright repatriation of foreign assets to fund defence
spending. Leading into the First World War, the economic historian Niall Ferguson
has highlighted how international bond markets increasingly tilted towards 'home
bias,' and during World War 2 Britain coerced private savers to swap dollar holdings

in order to boost the Bank of England's foreign exchange reserves.
On the deficit side of global imbalances, as figure 9 shows, one country contributes
more than any other combined, namely the United States. And it is also the case,
when it comes to stocks, that the largest holders of US assets (when excluding the
Caribbean holdings which are largely reflective of tax benefits rather than ultimate
beneficial ownership) are once again: Europe, East Asia and the Middle East. In

other words, if global imbalances fall due to increased defence spending, it is US
deficits that may end up being the most vulnerable.
12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 6 =====

Page 6 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 8: Europe, North Asia and the Middle East are seeing the biggest
increases in defence expenditure
Source : Deutsche Bank, SIPRI Defence Database
Figure 9: Global surpluses driven by similar regions to
where defence spending is going to rise the most, global
deficits driven by the US
-2,000,000
-1,500,000
-1,000,000
-500,000
-
500,000
1,000,000
1,500,000
2,000,000
2,500,000
95 99 03 07 11 15 19 23
12m rolling current accounts, mns USD

EU Middle East North Asia Japan South Asia United States Rest of G10 Lat Am Rest
Source : Deutsche Bank, Haver Analytics, *note time series not continuous due to data availability issues
Figure 10: Similarly, holdings of US assets are
concentrated in regions that need to re-arm
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
Africa South and
central
Asia
Other Middle
East
Caribbean East Asia Euro Area
Total holdings of US assets in USD bns
Source : Deutsche Bank, US Treasury TIC Data

This, however, is logical. With a reduced US security commitment to traditional
allies, it is inconsistent for the private savings of those allies to be channeled to the
US to the same extent as domestic financing needs increase.
The current account channel: can US defence exports compensate?
Reduced recycling of private savings into the US on account of growing defence
spending may not necessarily be negative for the dollar. If US deficits are vulnerable

to less recycling of private savings in the rest of the world, the US current account
should adjust. But this could happen for dollar-positive reasons if the US is able to
provide defence equipment and services through its exports.
The push for defence spending is already evident in the data. For example, although
volatile, defence-related machinery orders in Japan and capital goods orders in
12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 7 =====

Deutsche Bank AG Page 7
Germany have risen to record high levels in the last four years (figure 11). At the
same time, US defence exports have also risen to record levels (figure 12).
Nevertheless, while we think that increased US defence exports may compensate
the effects on the financing of US deficits in the short term, over the medium term
we think this is less likely.
First, although there is a large investment and expertise gap in the defence industry

in regions such as Europe, East Asia and the Middle East, which will require imports
to fill, over the medium term policymakers are attempting to build up domestic
industrial bases and increase strategic autonomy in defence.9  For example, the EU
has identified seven capability gaps, from air and missile defence to AI, Quantum,
Cyber and Electronic Warfare with the aim of building a defence base that will
enable the EU to conduct the entire spectrum of military tasks. The European

Defence Industrial Strategy has put a target of at least 50% defence procurement
being sourced from the European industrial base by 2030 and 60% by 2035. To be
sure, the starting point presents a challenge - our European economists estimated
that 78% of defence procurement went to non-EU providers of which 63% went to
the US at the start of last year. 10  But the European Commission also note that
European defence industry turnover has grown from EUR 124bn in 2021 to EUR

183bn in 2024.
Second, procurement is only one part of the defence budget. For example, although
in the EU it makes up the majority of the investment budget, the EUR 88bn spent in
2024 on procurement is less than a quarter of the total (EUR 381bn) spent overall.
Another reason to doubt that US exports will fully compensate for the reduced
ability of allies to finance US deficits is that the Trump administration is itself
proposing a major increase in defence expenditure as part of the 2027 Budget,

amounting to up to USD 1.5 trillion, nearly a USD 500bn increase from the previous
year. It seems unlikely that US industry could simultaneously fully meet global
demand for defence equipment and its own domestic demand under government
spending plans.
Figure 11: Defence orders in Europe and Japan have
already surged in the last three years
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
0
100,000
200,000
300,000
400,000
500,000
600,000
700,000
800,000
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

Japan, machinery order received, mns JPY, lhs
Germany, domestic manufacturing orders, capital goods
Source : Deutsche Bank, Haver Analytics
Figure 12: US defence exports are also climbing rapidly
but are unlikely to fully compensate
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
8,000
9,000
10,000
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
US exports of missiles, space propulsion units, tanks, mns USD,
12m rolling
Source : Deutsche Bank, Haver Analytics
9 See the ReArm Europe Plan, Readiness 2030

10 See Mark Wall and team, "Focus Europe: Defending Europe Part 3, January 2025
12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 8 =====

Page 8 Deutsche Bank AG
Quantifying the impact
This analysis has suggested that rising defence spending will reduce global savings
and compress global imbalances. Because the US deficit is the counter-point to
savings in Europe, East Asia and the Middle East, recycling of private savings into
the US is likely to diminish, putting pressure on the dollar. In the short term,
increased US defence exports may compensate somewhat, but these are unlikely

in the medium term to fill the gap.
Can we quantify the impact on USD? Future defence needs are subject to a huge
amount of uncertainty but for the sake of simplicity we identify 'defence gaps'
among a sub-set of economies where pressure to raise defence spending may be
most acute. The first defence gap is based on a hypothetical 3% GDP defence
spending target, the second a 5% target. We calculate this based on 2024 GDP in
current prices, and compare it to updated defence spending from the SIPRI

database for the same year. The results are striking. Under the 3% 'gap', the shortfall
amounts to USD 500bn and under the 5% 'gap', the shortfall amounts to USD 1.2
trillion. By way of comparison, the 2024 US current account deficit amounted to
USD 1.185 trillion. Of course, this is a highly partial equilibrium analysis, ignoring
other aspects of supply and demand for global savings. But at a minimum, it
suggests that the effect of increased defence spending on savings rates and current

accounts will not be trivial.
Figure 13: Quantifying the defence gap - the additional spending is not trivial
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
2,000
2024 defence expenditure
3% GDP
5% GDP
USD 1,188bn
shortfall
USD 500bn
shortfall
Source : Deutsche Bank, IMF , SIPRI database
Conclusions
This report has focused on providing a framework for how increased global defence
spending - a trend likely to be accelerated by the current conflict in the Middle East

- will act upon global macro, focusing on savings rates and global imbalances.
We have concentrated on only one sector where investment is likely to rise among
US allies over coming years. As noted at the start of this piece, other sectors where
investment is likely to rise is energy infrastructure and technology. Our colleagues
have focused on other areas in which the furling of the US security umbrella could
have major ramifications, for example by reducing incentives to spend dollars in

12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 9 =====

Deutsche Bank AG Page 9
energy markets or accelerating the transition towards new energy sources.11  When
dovetailing with defence spending, the investment in strategic autonomy in these
areas will act as another powerful force depressing global imbalances. And even
within the defence sector, there are other implications we have not explored, such
as the currency invoicing of trade and the multipliers of defence spending. This will
provide fruitful ground for further research.

11 Mallika Sachdeva, "What Iran means for the dollar: a perfect storm for the petrodollar."
12 May 2026
FX Special Report


===== Page 10 =====

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
How defence spending will shrink global imbalances and weaken US – May 12, 2026


===== Page 11 =====

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

Sizing Up GLP-1 Impacts: 
Survey Shows Durable Shift in 
Pharma, Diets, and Dining

1 
Authors 
Laura Daniels 
Deputy Associate Director  
of Equity Research

Josh Ray 
Associate Director  
of Equity Research

Matthew Barnard 
Head of US Company Research

May 11, 2026 
We recently conducted our 2026 survey of current and former GLP-1 weight-loss 
medication users and the results are clear: GLP-1 adoption is shifting long-term 
behaviors affecting pharmaceuticals, food and beverage companies, and 
restaurants.  
These themes were already indicated in our initial 2024 survey of GLP-1s, but 
today’s results are even more striking. Now several years into GLP-1 usage, the 
survey shows sustained changes in dietary and restaurant behavior that stick 
even after patients have stopped taking GLP-1s. Following the recent 
introduction of oral pill versions of GLP-1 medications, the survey showed there 
is strong interest in orals, largely due to the convenience they offer. However, it 
also shows there are limits related to affordability and long-term commitment.  
The takeaway is that, for pharma, there is a plausible pathway for new oral GLP1s 
to accelerate market penetration over the coming years. Long-run market 
expansion is likely, although questions remain about how much consumers will 
be prepared to pay for orals and how long they will stick with them. Meanwhile, 
regarding food and beverages, consumers are shifting away from large portions 
and snacking towards protein-forward, functional, and nutrient-dense choices. 
For restaurants, the survey points to declines in the number of times people dine 
outside the home, partially offset by higher spending each time they eat out. 
Unsurprisingly, brands with differentiated, healthier offerings or more occasion-
based demand are likely to be more competitive.


===== Page 12 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 2

Figure 1: GLP-1 adoption represents a durable reallocation of consumer 
demand, in our view; behaviors likely to broaden under accelerated oral 
GLP-1 adoption through 2030

Source: Deutsche Bank Research

Implications for US and European Pharma 
The survey points toward a sustainable promise of oral GLP -1s, but also a cost 
ceiling, a durability problem, and potential for better risk-benefit to be disruptive. 
The picture it portrays is of a highly cost -sensitive user base that (still) clearly 
prefers orals and struggles with adherence to therapy, while mostly intending to 
return to it at some point and clearly not viewing diet and exercise as a viable 
alternative. 
What that implies for the market outlook is somewhat uncertain: with the up-front 
caveat that this survey addresses only those trying GLP -1 within the past year 
and hence perhaps not the key demographic from a market -growth-outlook 
perspective (i.e., those that have never tried it), for the existing installed user base 
it implies some risk of injectable cannibalization (though we note this is not 
particularly apparent yet in prescription data) and also some risk that volume 
demand may plateau without furthe r price degradation (a minor negative, in our 
view). However, it also implies that a return to therapy is likely to be high, and 
improved safety profiles plus oral convenience could help to build out the market 
opportunity over time. It also suggests the a mylin class could help optimize risk -
benefit and thus help address the persistent durability problem. 
As with our last survey, there was a bias to Ozempic as a preferred brand with a 
fairly even distribution between Wegovy, Zepbound, and Mounjaro beyond that. 
Interestingly, the main consequence of increasing use of GLP -1 therapeutics to 
manage weight loss appears to be a reduction in diet/exercise approaches to 
helping manage weight loss (rather than the reverse). Beyond that, consistency 
of adherence appeared static with our last survey (about 70% within a 12 -month 
window), whilst duration of therapy also appeared relatively stable at a mean of 
6-9 months. This is despite most patients not being at their target weight 
loss/implied BMI (current average about 30 versus average target closer to about


===== Page 13 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 3

25) and many continuing to experience a frequent (20%) rate of GI toxicity of 
some kind. 
Payor coverage did appear to have slightly improved (to about 40%), with most 
patients still paying up to $200 per month out of pocket, but interestingly 
willingness to self-pay has declined to less than half of patients (with most 
unwilling to pay more than $200 per month in that scenario). Almost half continue 
to access therapy via retail pharmacies, with only a modest increase in online 
channel use. On therapeutic options,  interest in oral formulations was very high 
at about 2/3 (and 80% in younger age g roups), with 50% expressing clear 
preference for orals over injectables all else equal. Interestingly, the greatest 
sensitivity on the question of switch intent related to cost, with early experience 
pointing toward a double-digit percentage lower cost for orals versus injectables 
and most citing this as sufficient to drive switching behavior.

Figure 2: Oral GLP-1 medications are becoming available. With this in 
mind, please indicate your level of interest in starting to use an oral form 
should it become an available option for you.

Source: dbDIG Primary Research

The most common reason provided for discontinuation among the approximately 
30% who stopped therapy within the past year was cost, though side effects were 
a close second, and a variety of other reasons followed closely behind. Only about 
20% of patients who had discontinued treatment cited “reaching weight loss 
goal” as the reason. In this subgroup, the advent of oral options also seemed to 
strike a particular chord (75% extremely or ve ry interested versus 64% in the 
earlier group of patients still on therapy). 
Implications for US and European Consumer Staples 
What stood out in our 2026 data compared to our 2024 survey is that GLP -1 
adoption is here to stay, with an enduring influence on consumer behavior. The 
introduction of the oral version of GLP -1s will only reinforce these trends. For 
packaged food and select beverage categories, the growing prevalence of GLP-1 
usage represents a sustained structural pressure that operates through lower


===== Page 14 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 4

portion sizes, reduced frequency, and selective category substitution rather than 
outright elimination of consumption. 
While many companies have begun to pivot their portfolios in response —
introducing protein -fortified snacks, functional beverages, and smaller portion 
formats—we question whether these innovations can fully offset the net impact 
of structurally lower intake and frequency. The survey data suggest that many of 
these shifts improve portfolio relevance and defend share, but do not fully restore 
lost volume, particularly in indulgent, frequency-dependent categories. 
The survey data suggest that protein formats primarily benefit from share 
reallocation within smaller meals rather than incremental meal creation. 
Moreover, with traditional categories also chasing protein, we would argue that 
protein itself is becoming in creasingly mainstreamed across everyday food 
products, diluting the relative advantage of specialized nutrition SKUs and 
capping category -level growth. Elevated competitive intensity and rising A&P 
needs increase the risk that theoretical demand alignment does not fully translate 
into a bigger bottom line. 
Outside of performance nutrition, fresh and clean -label portfolios benefit from 
broader, yet seemingly durable “eat better” behavior rather than calorie 
avoidance. Survey responses show consistently higher relative consumption of 
fresh and minimally proces sed foods during GLP -1 usage, though absolute 
consumption gains appear incremental rather than transformative.  
Flavor-centric and ingredient -led categories appear structurally more resilient 
than volume -dependent staples. Conversely, sugar -dense, portion -dependent 
categories face persistent headwinds. Energy drinks, though, stand out as one of 
the few categories showing net consumption stability or increases among active 
GLP-1 users. Water and hydration also tend to see benefits, with coffee and tea 
more neutral. 
Overall, GLP -1 adoption increasingly favors goods aligned with satiety, 
functionality, and quality over calories, but the survey underscores that alignment 
alone is insufficient. Company -specific execution, competitive position, 
reinvestment discipline, an d cost structure remain decisive in determining 
whether theoretical portfolio alignment translates into realized financial 
outcomes. 
From a European Food and HPC perspective, our 2026 survey reinforces the view 
that GLP -1s represent a persistent but comparatively modest influence on 
consumer demand, rather than a step -change in consumption behavior. In our 
view, GLP-1 also cannibalizes other forms of weight loss to some degree (though 
is likely to be more effective and lasting) and as such the net calorie drag per 
annum that many have worried about seems to be less than feared. It is fair to 
note though that rolling 12m US Nielsen aggregate "Food" volumes are running 
down about 1% year-over-year currently and the pace is accelerating. It's difficult 
to disaggregate GLP-1 from macro, demographic, SNAP and immigration factors, 
however, its unlikely to be a non-zero impact. 
Importantly, the 2026 cohort appears to have entered GLP-1 usage with healthier 
baseline habits than in 2023, resulting in a smaller incremental behavioral shift 
once on medication. In several categories, the change from “before” to “during” 
GLP-1 usage is  less pronounced than previously observed, suggesting an


===== Page 15 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 5

element of normalization rather than acceleration. That doesn't make the GLP -1 
effect itself less valid in its net effect, just that it may not all be related to actual 
GLP-1 usage. We have also previously noted that the US has also gone through 
waves of weight loss previously, it's not linear and as such GLP-1 usage increased 
at a likely time of one of these waves persisting post COVID anyway and we have 
previously seen a pivot to categories like dairy during non-GLP-1 weight loss. 
While some behavioral persistence is evident post -discontinuation, the data do 
not point to a broad -based collapse in category participation. In fact, select 
traditionally “indulgent” categories show stabilization —or modest re -
engagement—among former users , complicating a simple winners/l aggards 
framework. At an aggregate level, the data are also consistent with lower intensity 
rather than outright avoidance, implying moderation rather than displacement 
and an opportunity for companies to tailor their suite  of SKUs to mitigate or 
indeed benefit. As of yet we have seen limited impact on demand for household 
and personal care categories; thus far, consumer health companies have seen a 
surprisingly limited number of innovations that support GLP-1 usage.  
For our European Beverages coverage we view GLP -1 as a headwind to 
consumption overall but see some of the survey responses as providing 
conflicting data points to this potential risk. We view GLP-1 as one of a number of 
threats to beverage alcohol consump tion including ‘health’, younger consumers, 
cannabis and, for spirits, smaller players and ready -to-drink. Companies with a 
higher exposure to the US and those geographies where GLP -1 is coming off 
patent in the near future (Canada, India, China, Brazil) likely present the greatest 
risk with beverage alcohol more ‘at risk’ than soft drinks. 
The impact on nicotine consumption is not specifically covered in the survey 
results. We do recognize that there is growing body of scientific evidence to 
support the role GLP -1s may play in tackling smoking addiction, but efficacy 
varies by the specific d rug used. The observational data also point to increased 
effectiveness in reducing nicotine consumption (cigarettes and vapes) although 
these studies remain relatively small in scale. The industry has long dealt with 
declining volumes, and so we see GLP -1’s as another contributor to the volume 
contraction but one which, on current evidence, does not represent an existential 
threat to the industry. 
We would also posit the view that the motivation for smoking cessation is typically 
health related. Increasingly, the industry is able to offer consumers a broad range 
of smoking alternatives via Next generation products, which significantly improve 
the health outcomes, compared with smoking.


===== Page 16 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 6

Figure 3: Categories emerging as relative beneficiaries with the increasing use of weight loss medication

Source: Deutsche Bank Research

Figure 4: Categories impaired by GLP-1 usage but more resilient, especially with adaptation to remain 
competitive

Source: Deutsche Bank Research


===== Page 17 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 7

Figure 5: Categories that are more adversely impacted by the use of weight loss medication

Source: Deutsche Bank Research

Implications for Restaurants 
The increasing penetration of GLP -1 weight loss drugs is intuitively a headwind 
for total restaurant spend, and our survey results are in line with this thinking. 
Despite the fact that many users eventually stop taking GLP-1s, they continue to 
show sustain ed changes in behaviors. Our survey results indicate that former 
GLP-1 users do not meaningfully return to full-service restaurants after taking the 
medication, though some return to fast food and coffee shops at a rate above 
current GLP-1 users, and in re ality, we believe restaurant trends rebound more 
than our survey suggests. This is based on anecdotal commentary and behaviors 
seen in other categories. The read -through on individual frequency was more 
positive, with current GLP -1 users reporting an incre ase in visits to full -service 
restaurants, and a modest decline in visits to fast food, coffee shops, and takeout 
relative to pre-GLP-1 levels. Moreover, average spending on meals per visit was 
higher than baseline, suggesting a more tempered impact on sal es compared to 
traffic. 
Restaurants have started to address behavioral shifts by offering smaller portion 
sizes, protein -forward options and functional beverages. We believe these 
innovations can help more effectively sustain participation in the restaurant 
industry; brands that are differentiated, screen healthy, and are more occasion 
based are relatively best positioned to be competitive.  
It is clear that overall food consumption decreases when consumers are on GLP -
1 medications, though the implications once consumers transition off are less 
clear. Based on our survey, 35% consumers report eating more on GLP -1 
medications, 24% eat about the  same, and 41% report eating less, for a net 6% 
eating less. When consumers were asked about current eating habits relative to 
pre-GLP-1 medication, among those currently taking GLP-1s, a net 10% reported 
eating less compared to pre -medication (38% more, 4 8% less). Notably, among 
consumers that are no longer taking GLP -1s, when compared to prior behaviors, 
a net 20% indicated they are actually eating more (45% more, 24% less), 
suggesting former users revert toward prior aggregate consumption levels.


===== Page 18 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 8

That said, there is still a change in how consumers eat, most notably an increase 
in cooking. Based on our survey, among consumers currently taking GLP-1s, a net 
54% of consumers are cooking more at home. Cooking usage also remains 
elevated among consumers  no longer taking GLP -1s, with a net 47% of 
consumers cooking more at home than before medication.

Figure 6: Our survey shows a meaningful and broad-based decline in restaurant 
usage when consumers take GLP-1s. Among current GLP-1 users, the 
percentage of respondents that visit restaurants drops by 25-30pp versus pre-
weight loss behavior. Among former GLP-1 users, the percentage of 
respondents that visited restaurants while taking these medications versus 
prior behavior decreases at a relatively similar 20-25pp.

Source: dbDIG, Deutsche Bank Research


===== Page 19 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 9

Figure 7: Among GLP-1 users that regularly visit restaurants, average spend 
per month did not take much of a hit, noting both current and former GLP-1 
users report higher average spend per visit for full service, fast food/coffee 
shops and takeout. It is unclear whether the higher average spend per visit is a 
reflection of perceptions around higher prices or consumers ordering 
more/trading up.

Source: dbDIG, Deutsche Bank Research

Figure 8: Individual consumption for former GLP-1 users that are still eating at 
restaurants seems reasonably resilient (or at least manageable). On a net basis, 
13% of consumers said they were dining less at full service compared to pre-
GLP-1 behaviors, 4% said they were visiting fast food/coffee shops less, and 
8% said they were ordering takeout less.

Source: dbDIG, Deutsche Bank Research


===== Page 20 =====

11 May 2026 
US Equity Focus

Deutsche Bank Securities Inc. Page 10

The Bottom Line: A Lot to Digest 
Our survey implies that GLP -1s are starting to look less like a therapeutics cycle 
and more like an enabling platform. It is reshaping how consumers manage 
weight, what they eat and drink, and whether and how they choose to dine out. 
For pharma, orals offe r an expanded market, offset to an extent by affordability 
and other constraints. For consumer staples and restaurants, brands that can 
focus on health -forward innovations will remain more competitive in this new 
environment.

Research Methodology 
This study focuses on both current and past GLP-1 users, with demographic data 
collected via a dedicated set of questions in our US monthly survey. Compared to 
the 2023 wave, several demographic shifts were observed: 
Gender: The user base is becoming more gender -balanced, with male GLP -1 
users increasing from 40% to 45%. 
Income: While the overall income distribution remained stable, there was a 
marginal increase in GLP -1 users within Income Tier 1 (households with an 
income up to $25,000). 
Overall, the survey was conducted through dbDIG from March 20-30, 2026, with 
550 respondents. We would like to thank Anthony Chaimowitz for his significant 
contribution to the survey and this report.


===== Page 21 =====

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
Sizing Up GLP-1 Impacts: Survey Shows Durable Shift in Pharma, Diets, and Dining – May 11, 2026

11


===== Page 22 =====

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

The long road: Quantifying Europe's 
exposure to transport disruption

1 
Authors 
Yacine Rouimi 
Senior Economist

Mark Wall 
Chief Economist

May 8, 2026 
Heightened geopolitical risk in the Middle East has placed European transport 
networks under intense scrutiny, with a particular focus on the supply of jet fuel 
given the high share of the Gulf in the global supply of kerosene.  
For the supply side of the European economy and overall input availability, the 
risk from a shortage of jet fuel is relatively small. The dominant fuel dependency 
for goods production is on diesel and electricity, reflecting the four-fifths share of 
input costs taken by land transport (road and rail).  
The true vulnerability to a shortage of jet fuel lies squarely with the tourism 
sector. Our simulation shows a 10% drop in tourism flows would have a 
moderate impact on the Euro Area, on average (-0.2% of GDP), but a more 
significant impact on countries like Croatia (-1.5%), Greece, and Portugal (-
0.7%).  
Beyond the specific risk to jet fuel, a wider disruption to the global supply of 
transport would expose a more fundamental European vulnerability: the physical 
length of supply chains. To measure this vulnerability, we introduce a “physical 
distance travelled” metric, reflecting how far inputs travel for every industry. It 
reveals two critical points: 
— A clear geographic divide: The economies with the longest supply chains are 
generally located in Southern Europe. Lacking deep integration with Europe’s 
industrial core their value chains are inherently more global and reliant on 
long-distance sourcing. This exposure to transport frictions could create a 
vulnerability for some of the zone’s high-debt member states. These 
countries are also those we previously found to have the highest energy 
import bill sensitivities. 
— A dual "hidden" risk: From a sector perspective, the most-exposed sectors 
besides tourism are capital goods (electronics, air/spacecraft, machinery) 
and materials manufacturing (metals, refineries), whose supply chains 
stretch nearly 5,000 km, on average. Crucially, these are the same value 
chains we previously identified as having high "hidden” energy content, 
indicating a dual vulnerability to both transport shocks and embedded 
energy costs. 
What does this mean for the ECB? Our baseline view is a ‘measured’ tightening 
with 50bp of hikes to 2.50%, the upper end of the range of neutral. With the 
labour market cooling, financial conditions tightening and this threat of fuel 
shortages, the growth outlook is not robust enough to think the ECB hikes much 
beyond 2.50%. The challenge for the ECB could be fragmentation if fuel 
shortages have a differential impact on member states.


===== Page 23 =====

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 2

Concerns shifting from energy to transport. Aviation of particular concern. As we 
highlighted in a recent note, Europe’s economic exposure to the Gulf conflict is 
twofold, and is more complex than the singular energy shock of the Russia -
Ukraine war.  Risks of direct shortages in energy and key materials like 
petrochemicals or mineral fuels  are now coupled with a more complex threat: 
second-order disruptions to global value chains.  
Transport disruption is one of the most significant vectors of transmission for 
both these risks. As an input at every stage of production , the transport sector’s 
resilience is once again at the forefront amid reports of looming fuel shortages 
and logistical bottlenecks. In all this, jet fuel is of particular concern, as shown by 
recent statements by the Head of the Int ernational Energy Agency  on April 16 
that Europe has “maybe six weeks of jet fuel left” , and our own calculations that 
the share of Gulf countries as a source for EU imports of kerosene reaches 56%.  
As our transportation sector  specialists explain, the market is already under 
pressure. Jet fuel prices have doubled, and while replacement barrels from the 
US and Africa have helped Europe plug the gap for now, this fragile balance is 
unlikely to survive the summer demand surge. Airlines are already cancelling 
unprofitable flights and  face difficult trade -offs between raising prices and 
eroding consumer confidence. 
In this article , we think about the European economy’s exposure to potential 
global transport disruption – in particular jet fuel – from two complementary 
perspectives. First, from a supply  or production perspective, we look at the role 
of various forms of transport in European supply chains , including air transport, 
while introducing a distance metric reflecting how far European inputs travel and 
are exposed to transport disruptions . Second , from a demand or income 
perspective, we look at the exposure of E uropean economies to tourism and in 
turn tourism’s exposure to air travel.  
How much transport in value chains? 3-5% of inputs, of which little air transport.  
A traditional way to assess transport dependency is to measure its overall share 
in inputs along the value chain.

Figure 1: Cost share of transport services in Euro area 
input purchases, dominated by land. Air is tiny

Figure 2: By physical weight, maritime shipping 
dominates freight transport

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO. The figures include the absorption of all 
transport services at every stage of production, including that required to move inputs 
between two foreign suppliers (ie indirect absorption).

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Eurostat (tran_hv_ms_frmod). The unit used for 
measuring the freight transport shares is the tonne-kilometre (tkm). One tonne-
kilometre represents the movement of one tonne over a distance of one kilometre.


===== Page 24 =====

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 3

Our calculations, using a methodology popularized by the OECD , suggest 
transport services account for 3-5% of total input purchases across the Euro area 
(Figure 1), with some notable outliers like Greece at 7%. Among the Big4, the role 
of transport is more pronounced in Italy and France (4.5-5%), less so in Germany 
and Spain (3-4%).  
Land transport constitutes the bulk of this transport cost – approximately four-
fifths. The share of water transport is significantly smaller, except for trade-reliant 
coastal nations like Greece, Malta, and Cyprus. Importantly, air transport 
represents only a minor share overall.  
Implications for fuel usage. The dominance of land transport (i.e., road and rail) in 
the cost structure implies that the most significant fuel availability risk in the 
supply of goods and services comes from disruptions to diesel and electricity, not 
jet fuel. Given air freight's minimal share in both cost s and physical volume of 
freight (as confirmed by both our analysis and Eurostat data  in Figure 2), even a 
severe, un-substitutable 10% shortage of jet fuel may not cause much disruption 
to the flow of inputs and economic production in Europe.  
Tourism: a distinct, service-based vulnerability. The above numbers, focusing on 
freight and input purchases , do not capture  the broader issue of the tourism 
economy: tourism involves moving individuals – not freight – and air transport is 
not counted as a formal input to the hotels, restaurants, and cultural activities that 
constitute the tourism economy (i .e., hospitality, recreation) , but generally as a 
purchase by households.

Figure 3: The high share of long-distance travellers in 
direct foreign purchases (spending by foreign tourists)

Figure 4: Tourism is where the Euro area’s vulnerability 
to jet fuel and air transport becomes significant

Source: Deutsche Bank Research; OECD ICIO.

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO. The simulation focusses on the impact of 
spending by foreign tourists, and does not capture domestic tourism. As such, the 
numbers differ from the estimates of the sector’s footprint published by Eurostat

In Figure 3, we calculate the share of GDP driven by direct purchases by 
foreigners (spending by foreign tourists) . The result, unsurprisingly, is that the 
nations of Southern Europe are much more exposed , on average, but all nations 
in Europe derive income from a demand perspective from far -away visitors. We 
estimate that about three quarters of that spending is made by foreigners having 
travelled more than 2,000 km (50% of the spending by travellers more than 
5,000 km away, often placing them on another continent).


===== Page 25 =====

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 4

A simulated 10% drop in global tourism flows reveals a manageable cost for the 
Euro Area , on average (a 0.2% hit to GDP – Figure 4). The impact is more 
pronounced in Croatia (GDP falling 1.5%), and Greece and Portugal (both seeing 
declines of 0.7%). On the  Big4 countries, Spain would be faced with the most 
significant loss (0.4%), while France, Italy (0.2%) and Germany’s (0.1%) exposures 
are more modest.  
An important caveat to bear in mind: in cases of severe disruption of air travel, 
holidaymakers would likely travel more locally, which should reduce the size of a 
shock to the tourism industry. The overall impact will still depend on the size of 
the tourism sector relative to local demand.  
Beyond jet fuel: Measuring exposures to transport friction. The focus on jet fuel, 
while critical for tourism, highlights a greater strategic risk: energy -driven 
transport disruptions may not stop at kerosene. A broader shock to transport 
fuels affecting diesel and maritime fuels would more certainly curtail the physical 
movement of goods. In such a scenario, what matters is not just the cost of 
transport, but a value chain’s fundamental exposure to distance. 
To assess this exposure, we introduce the “ physical distance travelled ” metric. 
This measure goes beyond a simple 'average import distance' to quantify the total 
physical journey embedded in the Euro Area's inputs to production, including 
domestic trade and all transactions that occur before a final good is imported. It 
reveals the true length – and vulnerability – of our supply chains. Deutsche Bank 
clients can access further details including the methodology on our Deutsche 
Bank Research client site. 
Figure 5 illustrates the main input to the calculations . It shows the global 
transactions required to generate €100bn of production of an average 
good/service in the Euro Area, and where this output is directed . Both charts 
contain the same data, with the left-hand one showing how output is broken down 
(domestic consumption vs. exports), while the right -hand one  illustrates the 
complex connections across regions to feed the Euro Area with inputs. The blue 
and red links represent the Euro Area’s indirect exposure.

Figure 5: Picturing the global web of inputs for Euro area production

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO. Note: our distance metric also includes the intra Euro area trade required in the value chain, not displayed in this chart.


===== Page 26 =====

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 5

We find a significant reliance on external partners, requiring approximately €10bn 
in output from the Asia -Pacific region alone. The charts also highlight the 
complexity of these value chains: a large portion of the Asian output is transacted 
and transformed internally (the blue segments) before being exported. 
Tourism is clearly at risk, while the capital goods and materials value chains stand 
out on the goods-producing side. Southern Europe is more vulnerable, too.  
The distance metric we calculate is simply the sum of the distances between the 
nodes in Figure 5 in kilometres , weighted by their values (it also includes intra 
euro area trade, not displayed in the chart) . It shows that the longest , and, 
therefore, most transport-exposed, value chains in the Euro Area fall into three 
clear categories:  
• First are tourism services , with most countries deriving a significant 
portion of revenue from travel lers residing more than 5,000 km away  
(Figure 6).  
• Second, Capital goods, where production is globally fragmented.  Here, 
the computer and electronics sector  stands out, with the average input 
traveling nearly 5,000 km, the longest of any European industry, after 
tourism. Other capital goods sectors like aircraft/railway equipment and 
electrical equipment (4,100 km) also exhibit noticeably long supply 
chains. 
• The third category is materials manufacturing. Industries like non-ferrous 
metals (4,800 km), coke/refined petroleum (4,700 km), and iron/steel 
(4,000 km) all rely on sourcing raw materials from distant global locations. 
Notably, these are the same value chains we previously identified as 
having a high "hidden energy"  imported content, indicating a dual 
vulnerability to both energy shocks and transport disruption.

Figure 6: Highest distance dependency for European 
tourism services, capital goods, and materials.

Figure 7: Longer distances in Southern European value 
chains

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, ICIO

In terms of geographies, t he simulations show that several Southern European 
countries have longer -than-average supply chains : a  group including Cyprus, 
Greece, Portugal, and Spain are all positioned at the higher end of the spectrum  
(Figure 7). An average calculated for the nine Southern Euro area economies


===== Page 27 =====

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 6

yields a kilometric distance of 3, 490 km, a figure higher than the Euro Area 
average of 3,330 km. For goods producers within this southern bloc, the average 
distance is even longer, at 3,700 km.  
The higher exposure to transport frictions could, therefore, create a vulnerability 
for some of the zone’s high -debt member states  (Figure 8). These countries are 
also those we previously found to have the highest energy import bill sensitivities. 
Italy and Croatia are exceptions to this pattern, showing shorter supply chain 
distances more aligned with the industrial core of the Euro area, like Germany and 
France (3,200-3,300 km).

Figure 8: A vulnerability to transport disruptions for some of the highest-debt 
member States

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO

What this means for the ECB: Measured tightening…at most 
A negative supply shock pushes prices up and activity down. These opposing 
forces can neutralise the impact on monetary policy (‘look through’). The ECB is 
nervous that the size and persistence of the upside inflation shock might need a 
tightening of monetary policy to ensure that inflation remains anchored at 2% in 
the medium term. However, the downside risks to growth are not irrelevant. The 
more significant the downside risks to growth, the less likely is a large or 
persistent inflation shock. Monetary p olicy needs to carefully weigh the inflation 
effects against the growth effects.  
If Europe suffers from an outright shortage of transport fuels, then growth will 
undoubtedly weaken more than expected (assuming no substitutability of fuels or 
other sources of transport). Shortages could also push transport prices up even 
more, but only if firms believe demand can sustain even sharper price hikes, and 
this cannot be taken for granted – especially when the fiscal response to the crisis 
is limited and financial conditions are tightening.  
In other words, if fuel supply shocks intensify to the point of outright shortages in 
Europe, it is not obvious that monetary policy would have to tighten even more 
than expected. It is even possible that monetary policy tightens less.


===== Page 28 =====

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 7

Our view is that the downside risks to growth are becoming more significant. One 
reason is the impact of the energy shock on supply chains. As discussed above, 
there are multiple aspects to this shock on supply chains.  
First, we recently wrote about the hidden energy costs  in Europe’s imports, 
particular from Asia, a region where the risk of production disruptions from 
energy shortages is more acute.  
Second, last year , we wrote about the high complexity (and low substitutability) 
of Europe’s imports from Asia  (China in particular) . This increases the risk of an 
Asian shock compromising European supply chains.  
Third, in this note , we offer a complementary perspective by showing the actual 
length (‘ physical distance travelled’) of Europe’s supply chains. The member 
states most at risk of an economic cost from a limited supply of transport fuels 
are those with longer supply chains. Generally speaking, they are also the ones 
with higher levels of public debt. 
The bottom line is  we see the net inflation/growth arguments favouring a 
measured ECB tightening at most. Our baseline is 50bp of hikes to 2.50%, with 
quarter point hikes in June and September. With the labour market cooling, 
financial conditions tightening and a threat of fuel shortages, the growth outlook 
is not robust enough to think the ECB hikes much beyond 2.50%.  The challenge 
for the ECB could be fragmentation if fuel shortages have a differential impact on 
member states.


===== Page 29 =====

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
The long road: Quantifying Europe's exposure to transport disruption – May 8, 2026


===== Page 30 =====

1   |    May 5, 2026 Q&A with
May 5, 2026
Q&A with Matthew Barnard
As equity research adapts to rapid shifts in technology, markets and client
behaviour, Matt Barnard, Head of US Equity Research, is helping steer how
Deutsche Bank evolves its research offering. In this edition of our Q﹠A series,
Matt shares his perspective on the new ways clients are consuming research,
his outlook for US markets, and what it’s like leading research teams through

a period of significant change.
Q: You’ve spoken about the equity research landscape undergoing a
fundamental shift. What has changed most in how clients discover, engage
with and use research today?
AI is fundamentally changing how clients consume sell‑side research. As
information becomes more easily accessible through AI tools, the value of
differentiated insights from trusted sources has moved higher up the value
chain. Investors are increasingly using AI to discover new ideas and challenge

consensus views more quickly and efficiently. This allows them to filter out
noise and spend more time engaging in deeper, more meaningful
conversations with our Deutsche Bank research analysts.
Q: Against a complex backdrop for US geopolitics and policy, how do you
currently assess the outlook for US markets – and which themes matter most
for clients as we move through 2026?
Geopolitical developments in the US and globally continue to be a significant

driver of volatility across risk assets. Deutsche Bank research’s macro and
strategy teams have consistently taken bold, often counter‑consensus views,
which are especially valuable in this environment. While conflicts in the
Middle East will likely continue to create ripple effects across markets, the
underlying fundamentals for US equities remain relatively strong. The rapid
acceleration of AI adoption – and the associated capital investment – remains

a key thematic focus for clients, both in the US and globally.
Q: You now lead teams through a period of rapid change. What do you find
most rewarding about working in research management at this point in the
cycle?
At its core, the role of an equity research analyst is to form forward‑looking
views with imperfect information. The strongest analysts thrive in periods of
uncertainty and rapid change, identifying emerging trends and uncovering
new investment opportunities early. From a management perspective, the

Matthew Barnard
+1(212)250-5111
matthew.s.barnard@db.com
Author
www.dbresearch.com
research.db.com


===== Page 31 =====

Deutsche Bank
Research
Q&A with Matthew Barnard
2   |    May 5, 2026 Q&A with
most rewarding part of my role is seeing some of the brightest minds in
research stay ahead of these shifts and deliver true alpha for our clients.


===== Page 32 =====

Deutsche Bank
Research
Q&A with Matthew Barnard
3   |    May 5, 2026 Q&A with


===== Page 33 =====

reserved. When quoting please cite “Deutsche Bank Research”.
The above information does not constitute the provision of investment, legal or tax advice. Any views expressed reflect
the current views of the author, which do not necessarily correspond to the opinions of Deutsche Bank AG or its
affiliates. Opinions expressed may change without notice. Opinions expressed may differ from views set out in other
documents, including research, published by Deutsche Bank. The above information is provided for informational

purposes only and without any obligation, whether contractual or otherwise. No warranty or representation is made as
to the correctness, completeness and accuracy of the information given or the assessments made. In Germany this
information is approved and/or communicated by Deutsche Bank AG Frankfurt, licensed to carry on banking business
and to provide financial services under the supervision of the European Central Bank (ECB) and the German Federal

Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). In the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by
Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, a member of the London Stock Exchange, authorized by UK’s Prudential Regulation
Authority (PRA) and subject to limited regulation by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (under number
150018) and by the PRA. This information is distributed in Hong Kong by Deutsche Bank AG, Hong Kong Branch, in
Korea by Deutsche Securities Korea Co. and in Singapore by Deutsche Bank AG, Singapore Branch. In Japan this

information is approved and/or distributed by Deutsche Securities Inc. In Australia, retail clients should obtain a copy of
a Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) relating to any financial product referred to in this report and consider the PDS
before making any decision about whether to acquire the product.


===== Page 34 =====

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

Will Claude’s AI finance agents 
change your life?

1 
Authors 
Adrian Cox 
Research Analyst

May 6, 2026

Finance professionals may be quaking in their gilets today after Anthropic’s latest 
release of Claude agents for financial services. But their alarm may be 
premature. 
Anthropic released 10 “ready-to-run” agent templates yesterday to handle time-
consuming tasks from research and client coverage to finance and operations 
with a webinar that included CEO Dario Amodei and JPMorgan CEO Jamie 
Dimon.  
The templates bundle together skills, connectors (third-party market and 
research data) and sub-agents to help bankers build pitchbooks and models, 
screen KYC files, close month-end accounts and more.  
While the internet was full of (AI-generated) memes of young bankers in tears this 
morning, the reality is that they are likely to continue to be working late nights 
and weekends to serve their clients for some time to come.  
On the one hand, finance is the perfect industry for AI. It has abundant data; 
high-value, repeatable decisions often performed with manual processes; and 
operates in a digital, low-friction environment. US Census Bureau data shows 
that 30 percent of US banks and insurers were using AI in February and about 34 
percent are expecting to use it in the next six months. That puts it not far behind 
information technology, the front-runner at 38 percent and 43 percent. 
Figure 1: US companies using or expecting to use AI (%, Feb 2026)

Source: US Census Bureau, Deutsche Bank Research


===== Page 35 =====

6 May 2026
Thematic Research
Page 2 Deutsche Bank AG
But on the other hand, adoption is easier said than done, particularly among the
largest organisations operating in a highly regulated industry where 99 percent
accurate is not accurate enough.
Barriers to adoption include:
1.  Technology and data:  the barriers to any new tech adoption include
complex integration with legacy systems; the need for tailored, secure,
high-quality – and accessible – data; and issues like data privacy and

cybersecurity.
2.  Governance: barriers specific to AI include the need for heightened
guardrails around hallucination, bias, intellectual property and aligning
stakeholders. There is also regulatory uncertainty as policymakers take
differing and rapidly evolving approaches. AI activities must not only be
understood but also explainable.
3.  People: organisations need to rely on a limited pool of technology experts
experienced in implementing a fast-evolving technology. They also must

deal with a wide range of capabilities – and support or resistance – from
managers and employees. At the very least, that requires training and
cultural change.
4.  Customers and clients: it is far from a given that customers and clients will
be universally supportive of having their financial affairs handled by AI or
dealing directly with AI agents, let alone giving enough data to the systems
to make them valuable.
Diffusion is "much slower than the technology is capable of"

Amodei acknowledged the so-called capability overhang in the webinar, saying:
“Our ability to commercialise this technology… is held back not by the power of the
models and the economic value you can generate in principle but by the diffusion
in the workplace... Diffusion is faster than we’ve seen in any technology previously
in the world but it’s still much slower than the technology itself is capable of.”
Anthropic and its rival OpenAI are seeking to increase adoption by creating teams

to help enterprises adopt AI – a crucial step in monetising the technology and paying
for the rapid increase in demand for compute – not least to service the all-but-free
service available to consumers.
On Monday, Anthropic announced a joint venture focusing on deploying enterprise
services, backed by companies including Blackstone, Hellman & Friedman and
Goldman Sachs. On the same day, OpenAI was reported to be raising funds for a
similar venture called The Development Company.

The ventures will reportedly raise money from the alternative asset managers in
return for sales access to their investors’ portfolio companies. It echoes the
“forward-deployed engineer” model pioneered by Palantir, where engineers are
embedded directly within client teams.
The news has had knock-on effects in data industry stocks, including Thomson
Reuters and Factset. They had already been dented by the "SaaSpocalypse" earlier
this year, when the launch of Anthropic's Cowork led investors to question whether

AI agents would disintermediate providers of traditional subscription software – or
give them an opportunity by deploying AI themselves or being the golden source for
leading AI providers.


===== Page 36 =====

6 May 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 3
Figure 2: Data providers and S&P 500 Index share price YTD, indexed to 100
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Thomson Reuters Factset S&P Global Moody's S&P 500 Index
Source : Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank Research
Two life-changing scenarios?
Despite the challenges of adoption, there is no doubt that life for junior bankers in
particular will change over time.
Anthropic described two scenarios.
In one, a natural resources group banker responds to a client who is considering

taking their company private by forwarding a message to Claude using voice mode
and Cowork Dispatch messenger. The tool then runs a pitch builder, including
comps (comparable company) analysis, drawing in information from third-parties
such as Standard & Poor’s and Factset; creates an adjustable spreadsheet and an
interactive slide deck; and prepares a draft to mail to the client.
In another scenario, a fund accountant uses a valuation review agent to pull tailored

quarterly financial information before handing over to a statement auditor agent
and then to a client.
The finance agents are available as plugins for users of Claude Cowork – which
executes multi-step office tasks on a user's behalf – and Claude Code – an AI-
powered coding assistant – running alongside Microsoft Excel, Powerpoint, Word
and (soon) Outlook.
They are also available as a so-called cookbook for Claude Managed Agents,
running autonomously on the Claude Platform for more in-depth work. They run

best on Claude's latest Opus 4.7 model, Anthropic said. OpenAI and Google offer
their own AI finance tools to perform some of the same tasks.
Three levels of adoption
Longer term, there are likely to be three levels of adoption of AI in financial services,
with the first and parts of the second well-advanced, but the third still nascent:


===== Page 37 =====

6 May 2026
Thematic Research
Page 4 Deutsche Bank AG
1.  Individual productivity augmented: tools like Cowork and Microsoft 365
Copilot.
2.  Processes automated: streamlining operations and increasing efficiency,
notably in back-office functions. Tasks like triaging incoming emails, and
processes like onboarding, credit scoring and claims processing, may be
among those that can be enhanced.
3.  Systems transformed: building on AI platforms to create new workflows,

rather than automating parts of existing workflows, and creating new
revenue streams and business models. This may include autonomous
agents running areas like trading and operations end-to-end; 24/7 market
monitoring, client service and trade execution; and agents using
multimodal data to update in real time.
Some areas are likely to remain elusive for longer still. Handing the keys to AI to
trade the markets, the Holy Grail of capabilities, continues to be risky. Bloomberg

reported today on a series of trading contests including one on Alpha Arena, run by
Nof1, where a portfolio run by eight major frontier systems lost about a third of its
capital in two weeks.
Obstacles to extracting AI value
Getting the most out of the remarkable capabilities of AI will take time and depends
on factors including:
1.  Adoption: as mentioned above, only about a third of US finance companies
are using AI in their business functions.

2.  Intensity: most AI users still only dabble, with only 12 percent using it daily,
according to St Louis Fed survey data.
3.  Suitability: most jobs are a bundle of tasks, with some studies suggesting
only one fifth of all US tasks can be performed by AI.
4.  Economic threshold: even where tasks can be performed by AI at all, it
may still be cheaper for humans to do them. Two years ago, admittedly a
lifetime in AI terms, Nobel Prize-winning economist Daron Acemoglu’s

Simple Macroeconomics of AI paper cited data suggesting only a quarter
of AI-liable tasks would be able to be automated.
5.  Overall cost: while the capabilities of AI are increasing by the day, so is the
cost of using more and more (albeit cheaper) tokens to execute more and
more complex operations. At some point, companies will need to rein in
token use and consolidate rather than letting every high-rolling employee
develop an army of their own agents.

(These still low levels of deployment suggest that there could be significant latent
demand justifying US hyperscaler capital expenditure on data centres reaching
$725bn this year. Shares in AMD, the No. 2 AI chipmaker, some way behind Nvidia,
surged as much as 21 percent today after it boosted its sales forecast for the second
quarter and said the market for generalist Central Processing Unit (GPU) chips will
grow at greater than 35 percent a year to reach over $120bn by 2030.)

What about us?
Humans still have a lot to offer. Beyond physical dexterity, most finance
professionals will have an edge in qualities that clients are likely to want to pay for
in the future:


===== Page 38 =====

6 May 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 5
1.  Judgement in defining problems and assessing outcomes, particularly
unusual and risky edge cases;
2.  Genuine creativity , rather than safe, centre-of-the-bell-curve
amalgamations of what has gone before;
3.  Emotional intelligence, including rapport, common sense and ethics.
An open question is how humans can develop these qualities if AI takes away much
of the early-career grunt work where they are forged.

AI agents can boost those qualities while outperforming on aspects they do better
and faster: analysing vast amounts of data; generating content; and executing
tedious multi-step processes, with lower operational risk, an auditable workflow
and humans in the loop only where necessary.
Consequently, the US Bureau of Labor Statistics predicts that financial managers
will see a 15 percent increase in numbers over the coming decade.
Figure 3: Fastest growing and (selected) fastest declining occupations in US,

2024 to projected 2034 (% change)
-50 -40 -30 -20 -10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Wind turbine servicers
Solar voltaic installers
Nurse practitioners
Data scientists
Information security analysts
Financial managers
Order clerks
Engine assemblers
Telemarketers
Data entry keyers
Word processors and typists
Source : US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Deutsche Bank Research
That puts them among the winners in a list led by wind turbine servicers and solar
voltaic installers, themselves benefitting from the need for energy to power the

mushrooming of data centres. After nurse practitioners, another two occupations
are also likely to be direct beneficiaries of AI: data scientists and information
security analysts.
The larger of the fastest declining occupations will include word processors and
typists, down by more than one third, the Bureau predicts, as well as data entry
keyers, both performing tasks squarely in the sights of AI agents.


===== Page 39 =====

6 May 2026
Thematic Research
Page 6 Deutsche Bank AG
Recent relevant research
Deutsche Bank Research Institute: Technology
AI, Iran and the Gulf 101 (April 13, 2026)
AI is not convinced AI is a major disinflationary force (April 9, 2026)
Tracking the effects of AI on the US labor market (March 10, 2026)
What AI says about AI eating itself and the world… (Feb 16, 2026)
AI Q&A: Why have market vibes suddenly shifted on AI? (Feb 16, 2026)
Three AI themes for 2026: the honeymoon is over (Jan 20, 2026)


===== Page 40 =====

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
Will Claude’s AI finance agents change your life? – May 6, 2026

7


===== Page 41 =====

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

The significance of the UAE

1 
Authors 
Michael Hsueh 
Research Analyst

May 6, 2026 
— The significance of the UAE extends beyond its oil production share within 
OPEC. The UAE is second only to Saudi Arabia with regard to production 
flexibility, both for reducing output (discipline) and increasing it (spare 
capacity). Notably, the UAE also played a larger role in production cuts 
during the GFC than Qatar, another former "OPEC 'Core'" member, which 
exited in 2019. Therefore, with the UAE's absence from May, OPEC and the 
OPEC+ coalition will have a diminished ability to manage market surpluses 
and deficits. 
— The economic and fiscal motivations for the UAE's decision appear obvious, 
quite apart from the well-known political issues. The UAE stands out among 
much of its OPEC brethren due to its lower fiscal breakeven oil price. In fact, 
amongst oil-exporting countries surveyed by the IMF , the UAE (USD 45/bbl) is 
matched in its low fiscal breakeven only by Qatar (USD 43/bbl) in 2026, while 
Iran (USD 165/bbl) is at the higher end of the spectrum. 
— In light of the UAE's pledge to "continue to act responsibly, bringing 
additional production to market in a gradual and measured manner" , we 
anticipate that the UAE will most likely increase its production towards 
sustainable capacity over a period of a year following the end of commercial 
shipping restrictions. 
UAE exit preceded by policy dissents

1 UAE gets higher OPEC+ crude production quota" , S&P Global, 4 Jun 2024, 
{https://www.spglobal.com/energy/en/news-research/latest-news/crude-oil/060424-uae-gets-higher-opeccrude-
production-quota }. 
2 UAE's ADNOC ups crude production capacity to 4.85 million b/d" , S&P Global, 2 May 2024, 
{https://www.spglobal.com/energy/en/news-research/latest-news/crude-oil/050224-uaes-adnoc-ups-
crudeproduction-capacity-to-485-million-bd}. 
The UAE exit from OPEC follows several dissents from group production 
decisions, notably in November 2020 and July 2021 when these disagreements 
became public knowledge, and its possible departure from OPEC was discussed 
in the media as a "trial balloon" .1 The exit also occurred despite some OPEC 
recognition and accommodation of the UAE's increased production capacity to 
4.85 mmb/d, announced in May 2024.2 In 2024, the UAE successfully lobbied for 
a higher production quota to be phased in over the course of 2025, resulting in 
the largest percentage increase among all OPEC-9 countries subject to a quota 
(Figure 1).


===== Page 42 =====

4 May 2026
Hsueh On Oil
Page 2 Deutsche Bank AG/Singapore
Figure 1: UAE saw the largest proportional quota increase
in 2025 (Jan'25=100)
Saudi Arabia
UAE
100
102
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
118
Iraq, Kuwait,
Algeria
Others
Quota increase relative to
Jan 2025, indexed to 100
Source : OPEC, Deutsche Bank
UAE and Qatar share low fiscal breakeven oil prices
The economic and fiscal context for the UAE's decision appears obvious, quite apart
from the well-known political issues.3 The UAE stands out among many of its OPEC

counterparts by its lower fiscal breakeven oil price. Since the market share "war"
starting from the end of 2014 through 2019, the UAE's fiscal breakeven has
diverged from those of Kuwait and Saudi Arabia (Figure 2). In fact, amongst the oil-
exporting countries surveyed by the IMF, the UAE (USD 45/bbl) is matched in its low
fiscal breakeven only by Qatar (USD 43/bbl) in 2026, with Iran (USD 165/bbl) at the
opposite end of the spectrum (Figure 3).

Figure 2: UAE diverged from Saudi Arabia and Kuwait in
fiscal breakevens (USD/bbl)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2008  2012  2016  2020  2024  2028
UAE
Saudi Arabia
Kuwait
Qatar
Brent Avg
Mkt share 'war'
Source : IMF, Deutsche Bank
Figure 3: UAE and Qatar (2019 exit from OPEC) have
lowest fiscal breakevens (USD/bbl)
0 50 100 150 200
Iran
Algeria
Bahrain
Kazakhstan
Saudi Arabia
Azerbaijan
Iraq
Kuwait
Libya
Oman
UAE
Qatar
2026 fiscal breakeven
(USD/bbl)
Source : IMF, Deutsche Bank

High contribution to supply discipline
The UAE's contribution to OPEC supply discipline extends beyond its share of oil
production falling under the OPEC umbrella. Along with OPEC founding members
3 "The Saudi Arabia-UAE Dispute Is About More Than Just Yemen", Foreign Policy Magazine, 8 Jan 2026,
{https://foreignpolicy.com/2026/01/08/saudi-arabia-uae-dispute-yemen-sudan/}.
Provided for the exclusive use of michael.hsueh@db.com on 2026-05-06T02:11+00:00. DO NOT REDISTRIBUTE


===== Page 43 =====

4 May 2026
Hsueh On Oil
Deutsche Bank AG/Singapore Page 3
Saudi Arabia and Kuwait, the UAE (joined in 1967) and Qatar (joined 1961, exited
2019) were considered to be OPEC 'Core' countries in the sense that they are
"immediate neighbors of Saudi Arabia and have usually followed similar policies."4
In early 2008, the UAE's share of OPEC production was only 8%, yet it contributed
11% of the production cut (Figure 4). The UAE's "sacrifice" as a percentage of its

own production was comparable to Saudi Arabia's (Figure 5), while non-Core
countries generally made lesser sacrifices. By 2026, the UAE's share of OPEC
production had risen to 12% just before the US-Iran war. While the UAE has typically
produced above its quota, it has not been a remarkable standout in this regard
(Figure 6), with Saudi Arabia and Kuwait also being similar or larger over-producers
in recent years (2024-2025).
This implies that to achieve the same impact in addressing demand shortfalls, other

countries would need to sacrifice slightly larger shares of production and revenue.
In 2020, the lower compliance demonstrated by OPEC+ coalition partners under
the Declaration of Cooperation (shown as 'non-OPEC' in Figure 7), suggests there
is more room for improvement here than within OPEC proper. The nine OPEC+
coalition partners produced 13.4 mmb/d in January 2026, compared to 24.6 mmb/d
from the OPEC-9 countries subject to a quota, and 30.1 mmb/d from all twelve

OPEC countries including Libya, Venezuela and Iran.
Figure 4: UAE share of 2008-09 OPEC cut was second-
largest
44%
11% 10% 7% 7% 6% 5% 4% 3% 3% 2% 1% 1%
0% -1%-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
OPEC
'Core'
Share of 2008-09
production cut
Source : IEA data from Monthly Oil Data Service © OECD/IEA 2026, www.iea.org/statistics,
Licence:www.iea.org/t&c; as modified by Deutsche Bank
Figure 5: UAE 'sacrificed' nearly as high a share of its
production as Saudi Arabia in 2008-09 (mmb/d)

16%
15% 12% 14% 8% 5% 7% 8% 9% 6% 6% 12% 4%
-1.8
-1.6
-1.4
-1.2
-1.0
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0.0
0.2
mmb/d
OPEC
'Core'
Percentages show GFC
decline* in production as
share of that country's
production
* (Feb'09 production minus
Jun-Aug'08 average)
Source : IEA data from Monthly Oil Data Service © OECD/IEA 2026, www.iea.org/statistics,
Licence:www.iea.org/t&c; as modified by Deutsche Bank
4 Gately, Dermot. "Lessons from the 1986 Oil Price Collapse", Brookings Papers on Economic Activity,

June 1986, { https://www.brookings.edu/wp-content/
uploads/1986/06/1986b_bpea_gately_adelman_griffin.pdf}.
Provided for the exclusive use of michael.hsueh@db.com on 2026-05-06T02:11+00:00. DO NOT REDISTRIBUTE


===== Page 44 =====

4 May 2026
Hsueh On Oil
Page 4 Deutsche Bank AG/Singapore
Figure 6: Notable OPEC-9 countries with production above
or below quota (kb/d)
Downward quota
adjustments to …
Jan increase
due to change
in quota
schedule-1600
-1100
-600
-100
400
900
1400
1900
Jan-22 Jan-23 Jan-24 Jan-25 Jan-26
UAE Kuwait
Saudi Arabia Iraq
Nigeria OPEC-9
Source : Bloomberg Finance LP, IEA data from Monthly Oil Data Service © OECD/IEA 2026, www.iea.org/
statistics, Licence:www.iea.org/t&c; as modified by Deutsche Bank, Kpler

Figure 7: OPEC+ coalition partners' compliance was lower
than OPEC-9 countries in 2020-21
Saudi unilateral Feb-Apr
cut was gradually
unwound, although
quota understood to
reverse in May
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
140%
160%
180%
May-20 Sept-20 Jan-21 May-21 Sept-21
Non-OPEC compliance
OPEC compliance
Source : IEA data from Monthly Oil Data Service © OECD/IEA 2026, www.iea.org/statistics,
Licence:www.iea.org/t&c; as modified by Deutsche Bank
Second-highest spare capacity in OPEC-9

Regarding the capacity to raise production, the UAE is also relatively important,
though not nearly as crucial as Saudi Arabia. Its average spare production capacity
since 2020 has been 0.8 mmb/d, compared to 2.5 mmb/d for Saudi Arabia. If
ADNOC's May 2024 estimate of sustainable capacity is used,the UAE's average
spare capacity would rise to 1 mmb/d, as the IEA's estimate of sustainable capacity
remained at 4.3 mmb/d in 2025. Consequently, after the UAE's departure, OPEC

and the OPEC+ coalition will have less flexibility in mitigating market deficits.
This point can also be illustrated by comparing the UAE to other countries that have
recently departed from OPEC ( Figure 9), showing that the UAE has a greater
capacity to create oversupply. However, as the Minister of Energy and
Infrastructure rightly points out, "the timing now is perfect" because "the impact is
going to be minimal on all of the producers", and from the consumer's point of view,

"the world will need much, much more production of energy."5
5 "Opec exit 'purely a policy move', UAE energy minister says", The National News, 29 Apr 2026, {https://
www.thenationalnews.com/business/energy/2026/04/28/opec-exit-purely-a-policy-move-uae-
energy-minister-says/}.
Provided for the exclusive use of michael.hsueh@db.com on 2026-05-06T02:11+00:00. DO NOT REDISTRIBUTE


===== Page 45 =====

6
www.wam.ae/en/article/bzxzuh7-uae-announces-decision-exit-opec-opec}.
6 "UAE announces decision to exit OPEC & OPEC+", Emirates News Agency, 28 Apr 2026, { https://
4 May 2026
Hsueh On Oil
Deutsche Bank AG/Singapore Page 5
Figure 8: UAE possessed second-largest spare capacity
out of OPEC-9 countries subject to a quota
Would be 1.0 mmb/d if
ADNOC-stated capacity is
used from May'24
0 1 2 3
Saudi Arabia
UAE
Iraq
Nigeria
Kuwait
Congo
Algeria
Eq. Guinea

Gabon Average spare
capacity (mmb/d,
2020-26)
Source : IEA data from Monthly Oil Data Service © OECD/IEA 2026, www.iea.org/statistics,
Licence:www.iea.org/t&c; as modified by Deutsche Bank, Kpler
Figure 9: UAE has more potential to raise production than
other countries at time of exit
Estimated by the IEA at
4.3 mmb/d, but widely
reported as 'close to 5
mmb/d'
Pre-conflict rate of
3.6 mmb/d, now
down to an
estimated 2.2
mmb/d
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0

6.0
UAE (May 2026) Angola (Jan 2024) Ecuador (Jan 2020) Qa tar (Jan 2019)
Production (mmb/d)
Sustainable capacity (mmb/d)
At time of OPEC exit
Source : Bloomberg Finance LP, IEA data from Monthly Oil Data Service © OECD/IEA 2026, www.iea.org/
statistics, Licence:www.iea.org/t&c; as modified by Deutsche Bank
UAE will continue to act responsibly
Beyond these important facts of the UAE's supply flexibility, it is worth noting from
the Ministry of Energy and Infrastructure's public statement that:

"Following its exit, the UAE will continue to act responsibly,
bringing additional production to market in a gradual and
measured manner, aligned with demand and market conditions."
Additionally,
"This decision does not alter the UAE's commitment to global
market stability or its approach based on cooperation with
producers and consumers. Rather, it enhances the UAE's ability to
respond to evolving market needs."
From these statements, we infer that following a Strait of Hormuz re-opening, there

may not necessarily be a very rapid increase in UAE production, even considering
the extreme supply deficits currently estimated. We could also infer that to
demonstrate its commitment to market responsibility, the Ministry of Energy may
be especially careful with its production profile after a Strait of Hormuz reopening,
since its behaviour will likely be under close scrutiny by the market. Accordingly, we
believe it most likely that the UAE will raise its production towards sustainable

capacity over a period of a year.
Provided for the exclusive use of michael.hsueh@db.com on 2026-05-06T02:11+00:00. DO NOT REDISTRIBUTE


===== Page 46 =====

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
The significance of the UAE – May 6, 2026


===== Page 47 =====

1   |    May 5, 2026 Q&A with
May 5, 2026
Q&A with Matthew Barnard
As equity research adapts to rapid shifts in technology, markets and client
behaviour, Matt Barnard, Head of US Equity Research, is helping steer how
Deutsche Bank evolves its research offering. In this edition of our Q﹠A series,
Matt shares his perspective on the new ways clients are consuming research,
his outlook for US markets, and what it’s like leading research teams through

a period of significant change.
Q: You’ve spoken about the equity research landscape undergoing a
fundamental shift. What has changed most in how clients discover, engage
with and use research today?
AI is fundamentally changing how clients consume sell‑side research. As
information becomes more easily accessible through AI tools, the value of
differentiated insights from trusted sources has moved higher up the value
chain. Investors are increasingly using AI to discover new ideas and challenge

consensus views more quickly and efficiently. This allows them to filter out
noise and spend more time engaging in deeper, more meaningful
conversations with our Deutsche Bank research analysts.
Q: Against a complex backdrop for US geopolitics and policy, how do you
currently assess the outlook for US markets – and which themes matter most
for clients as we move through 2026?
Geopolitical developments in the US and globally continue to be a significant

driver of volatility across risk assets. Deutsche Bank research’s macro and
strategy teams have consistently taken bold, often counter‑consensus views,
which are especially valuable in this environment. While conflicts in the
Middle East will likely continue to create ripple effects across markets, the
underlying fundamentals for US equities remain relatively strong. The rapid
acceleration of AI adoption – and the associated capital investment – remains

a key thematic focus for clients, both in the US and globally.
Q: You now lead teams through a period of rapid change. What do you find
most rewarding about working in research management at this point in the
cycle?
At its core, the role of an equity research analyst is to form forward‑looking
views with imperfect information. The strongest analysts thrive in periods of
uncertainty and rapid change, identifying emerging trends and uncovering
new investment opportunities early. From a management perspective, the

Matthew Barnard
+1(212)250-5111
matthew.s.barnard@db.com
Author
www.dbresearch.com
research.db.com


===== Page 48 =====

Deutsche Bank
Research
Q&A with Matthew Barnard
2   |    May 5, 2026 Q&A with
most rewarding part of my role is seeing some of the brightest minds in
research stay ahead of these shifts and deliver true alpha for our clients.


===== Page 49 =====

Deutsche Bank
Research
Q&A with Matthew Barnard
3   |    May 5, 2026 Q&A with


===== Page 50 =====

reserved. When quoting please cite “Deutsche Bank Research”.
The above information does not constitute the provision of investment, legal or tax advice. Any views expressed reflect
the current views of the author, which do not necessarily correspond to the opinions of Deutsche Bank AG or its
affiliates. Opinions expressed may change without notice. Opinions expressed may differ from views set out in other
documents, including research, published by Deutsche Bank. The above information is provided for informational

purposes only and without any obligation, whether contractual or otherwise. No warranty or representation is made as
to the correctness, completeness and accuracy of the information given or the assessments made. In Germany this
information is approved and/or communicated by Deutsche Bank AG Frankfurt, licensed to carry on banking business
and to provide financial services under the supervision of the European Central Bank (ECB) and the German Federal

Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). In the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by
Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, a member of the London Stock Exchange, authorized by UK’s Prudential Regulation
Authority (PRA) and subject to limited regulation by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (under number
150018) and by the PRA. This information is distributed in Hong Kong by Deutsche Bank AG, Hong Kong Branch, in
Korea by Deutsche Securities Korea Co. and in Singapore by Deutsche Bank AG, Singapore Branch. In Japan this

information is approved and/or distributed by Deutsche Securities Inc. In Australia, retail clients should obtain a copy of
a Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) relating to any financial product referred to in this report and consider the PDS
before making any decision about whether to acquire the product.


===== Page 51 =====

Deutsche Bank Research Institute


===== Page 52 =====

Helen Belopolsky, Miha Hribernik | This Month in Geopolitics | May 2026
At a Glance: Geopolitical events to watch in May 2026
Our monthly Look-Ahead covers a non-exhaustive list of key events, issues and themes to watch in the month ahead. The below map intends to serve as an
executive summary, providing a list of the issues at a glance. These are covered in more detail in subsequent slides.
Source: Deutsche Bank
China:
– 1 May: Visit by bipartisan US

Congressional delegation
– 14-15 May: Summit between
presidents Xi and Trump in Beijing
– Mid-May: Visit by Russian
President Putin
Singapore:
– 29-31 May: Shangri-La
Dialogue defence summit
United States:
– 27 April-22 May: Nuclear Non-
Proliferation Treaty conference
hosted by the UN in New York
– Mid-May: Kevin Warsh’s expected
confirmation as new Fed Chair
UK:
– 7 May: Local elections in
England, legislative elections
in Scotland and Wales
Ukraine:

– All May:
Negotiations
likely to remain
stalled
Iran:
– All May: Possible progress
toward a long-term
resolution of the crisis
even as both sides remain
far apart on key issues
India:
– 14-15 May: BRICS Foreign
Ministers’ Summit
– Late May: Visit by US
Secretary of State Marco
Rubio
– Late May: Quad Foreign
Ministers’ Summit
Colombia:
– 31 May: Presidential election
(first round)
Philippines:
– 8-9 May: ASEAN Leaders’
Summit
EU/EEA:
– 4 May: European Political

Community Summit
– 5 May: Meeting of the
Economic and Financial
Affairs Council (Ecofin)
– 11-12 May: Meeting of EU
foreign and defence
ministers
– 15-20 May: Visit by Indian
PM Modi to the
Netherlands, Norway,
Sweden and Italy
UAE:
– 15-20 May: Possible visit
by Indian PM Modi
before/after his trip to
Europe
1


===== Page 53 =====

Helen Belopolsky, Miha Hribernik | This Month in Geopolitics | May 2026
Iran crisis:
Key points of contention remain between the two sides, including Iran's nuclear programme, the closure of the
Strait of Hormuz and sanctions relief. The US rejection of Iran’s latest peace proposal on 1 May, and Iran’s warning
of possible military action on 4 May, underscored that both sides remain far apart on key issues. But despite the
precarious ceasefire, the probability of a longer-term resolution is assessed to be strong. The US is facing

diminishing returns and increasing domestic and international pressure as the economic consequences of the crisis
grow, which will likely push the administration towards a settlement.
This conflict is a transformative event for the Middle East, shattering the previous geopolitical equilibrium and
creating a new, unpredictable reality – as illustrated by the UAE’s decision to leave OPEC on 1 May. Iran is
expected to emerge with enhanced influence, while Gulf states will likely re-evaluate their security posture and

further diversify their international relationships beyond the United States. Post-conflict normalization and
economic recovery will be a lengthy process, likely taking months. Rebuilding critical infrastructure like Qatar’s Ras
Laffan gas field and restoring confidence for shipping through the Strait of Hormuz – which remains far below pre-
war levels (see chart) will take considerable time, with knock-on effects like inflation likely lasting well into the

second half of 2026.
Barring a significant escalation in the Iran war, the summit between presidents Xi and Trump on 14-15 May will
likely go ahead as planned – and deliver a package of tactical agreements. The meeting will likely coalesce
around limited, but potentially more achievable, deliverables. These could include Chinese commitments to
purchase up to 500 Boeing jets, US soybeans and energy, as well as Chinese requests for the US to ease export

controls, including on chips and aircraft engine parts. Both sides could also agree to set up a ‘Board of Trade’ to
increase bilateral trade in non-sensitive areas. Progress on a proposed ‘Board of Investment’ could be more limited
owing to mutual national security concerns linked to investment, although the summit could still deliver a small
number of investment deals.
Despite recent signs of friction over Iran, both sides appear to be prioritizing bilateral stability. The threshold for

another summit deferral is likely high. But a breakdown of the US-Iran ceasefire and a return to fighting would be a
notable downside risk, increasing the probability of another summit delay or even a cancellation.
In focus for May: The war in Iran and the Xi-Trump summit in Beijing
Source: International Energy Agency
Source: dbDataInsights
Tanker activity exiting the Strait of Hormuz (in DWT'000s)
The War in Iran: An End in Sight?
Xi-Trump Summit: Toward a Tactical Deal

Oil and gas infrastructure in the Gulf
2


===== Page 54 =====

Helen Belopolsky, Miha Hribernik | This Month in Geopolitics | May 2026
Negotiations for a ceasefire in Ukraine will likely remain stalled during May. While there is ongoing diplomatic
activity, no new rounds of ceasefire talks are publicly scheduled for May or June. Ukrainian President Zelenskyy has
stated that the US wants Russia and Ukraine to reach a peace agreement by June. However, the specifics of how
this would manifest in terms of scheduled meetings are unclear.

While a ceasefire over the coming months is far from guaranteed, even credible steps toward a deal would have
implications for markets. These could include a possible easing of some sanctions on Russia, the potential for
increased Ukrainian agriculture exports, and for enabling reconstruction – with implications for investments in
minerals, gas infrastructure, technology, city reconstruction, data centres and artificial intelligence.
The UN-sponsored conference in New York is taking place against the backdrop of rising geopolitical tensions

and the prospect of a new nuclear arms race. The expiry of the New START Treaty on 5 February marked the end
of the last binding nuclear arms control agreement between the US and Russia. Both countries retain the world’s
largest nuclear warhead inventories (see chart). While these have shrunk slightly in recent years, the unravelling of
the New START deal could reignite nuclear competition.
Meanwhile, China is pursuing a significant expansion of its nuclear stockpile. There is little evidence to suggest that

either the New York conference or other recent initiatives – including a proposal by President Trump for a new
arms control treaty between China, Russia and the US – are likely to translate into binding agreements in the near
term.
The reported visit reflects continued engagement and relative stability in China-US ties ahead of the Xi-Trump
summit. The five-person delegation led by Republican Senator Steve Daines reportedly visited Beijing and
Shanghai. The delegation is purportedly interested in better understanding China’s technological innovation and

infrastructure, including its high-speed rail network.
Other key events, issues and themes to watch in May 2026
Ukraine war (all May)
Bipartisan US Congressional delegation visiting China (1 May onward)
Listed in chronological order
Source: Statista
Estimated nuclear warhead inventories, 2024-25
Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty conference (27 April – 22 May)
3


===== Page 55 =====

Helen Belopolsky, Miha Hribernik | This Month in Geopolitics | May 2026
The summit will likely cover issues including energy security, defense, technology cooperation, and the conflicts
in Iran and Ukraine. The European Political Community was established in the wake of the Russian invasion of
Ukraine in 2022, with the goal of bolstering Europe-wide geopolitical cooperation. The group currently has 47
members, including non-EU members such as Türkiye, Armenia and Azerbaijan. The 4 May summit will take place in

the Armenian capital Yerevan.
The meeting of the EU’s financial and economic ministers will cover topics including the economic impacts of
the Russian invasion of Ukraine, European economic recovery and tax fraud. The council will also hold a debate
on the market integration and supervision package – a series of measures intended to strengthen the integration
and efficiency of the EU’s financial system.
The elections could see a realignment in voter preferences toward the Reform and Green parties. In England,

local elections will see more than 5,000 council seats up for grabs, as well as six directly elected mayoral posts.
Recent polls suggest a surge in support for the Reform Party – which is among other policies advocating for tighter
immigration curbs and lower taxation – and the Green Party. Labour and the Conservatives are facing significant
seat losses.
Polls ahead of Scotland’s parliamentary election on the same day indicate a lead for the ruling pro-independence

Scottish National Party, with Labour and Reform virtually tied for second place. The Conservative Party – which
came in second with almost a fifth of all votes in 2021 – could see its support halved.
For the legislative election in Wales, polls suggest support for the ruling Labour party could almost halve, with
Reform and pro-independence Plaid Cymru nearly tied for first place, each with around 25%-29% of the projected
vote.
Other key events, issues and themes to watch in May 2026

Source: Guillaume Périgois on Unsplash
Elections in the UK (7 May)
Listed in chronological order
European Political Community Summit (4 May)
EU Economic and Financial Affairs Council meeting (5 May)
4


===== Page 56 =====

Helen Belopolsky, Miha Hribernik | This Month in Geopolitics | May 2026
The Iran crisis and its economic impacts on Southeast Asia – which include inflationary pressure, rising fiscal
burdens due to energy subsidies, and jet fuel shortages – are expected to dominate discussions. Talks will also
likely focus on the war’s implications for energy, food prices, and for the region’s large expatriate community in the
Middle East, as well as critical minerals, and the South China Sea Code of Conduct.

The session is expected to include discussions on the EU’s response to the war in the Middle East and the
management of any knock-on implications of the conflict for the EU’s support for Ukraine. Ministers will also
discuss inputs into the development of the upcoming European Security Strategy.
The US Senate is expected to confirm the nomination of Kevin Warsh as the new Chairman of the Board of
Governors of the US Federal Reserve. The vote will likely be scheduled during the first half of May. Current US Fed

Chair Jay Powell’s term as Chair expires on 15 May, by which point Trump administration officials and Senate
Republicans are likely to push for Warsh’s confirmation to be complete. If confirmed, Warsh’s first FOMC meeting
will take place on 16-17 June.
Putin’s visit to China will likely seek to cement the China-Russia partnership (including more energy supplies for
Beijing) and coordinate US policies after the Xi-Trump summit. Media reports indicate Putin could visit during the

week of 18 May. The timing could suggest an exchange of views with China on the outcomes of the Xi-Trump
summit, and an effort to coordinate policies toward Washington. Putin and Xi could also seek to deepen diplomatic
and security ties, and coordinate on the Iran conflict, given Tehran’s status as both countries’ close partner.
For Beijing, securing increased Russian energy imports may be another objective. Russia’s Foreign Minister Lavrov
stated on 15 April that Moscow is willing to boost exports to China. The supply of Russian crude already rose by a

reported 31% y/y during 2026-Q1.
Other key events, issues and themes to watch in May 2026
Source: Rafik Wahba on Unsplash
Listed in chronological order
Russian President Putin to visit China (mid-May)
ASEAN Leaders’ Summit in the Philippines (8-9 May)
Kevin Warsh’s expected confirmation as new Fed Chair (mid-May)
EU foreign and defence ministers’ meetings (11-12 May)
5


===== Page 57 =====

Helen Belopolsky, Miha Hribernik | This Month in Geopolitics | May 2026
The expected visit to Italy, Norway, Sweden, and the Netherlands will likely seek to further strengthen trade and
investment ties. This will include attendance at the India-Nordic Summit on 15 May. Talks will likely cover issues
including energy, technological cooperation and defence, with the goal of deepening strategic cooperation as
India pursues economic and trade diversification amid the ongoing global energy shock. Reports suggest Modi’s

itinerary could include a stop in the United Arab Emirates – India’s key Gulf partner – for talks on topics including
regional security and energy cooperation.
The hosting of two geopolitically competing meetings reflects new Delhi’s multi-aligned policy approach. Marco
Rubio’s visit to India will reportedly be accompanied by the first meeting of the Quad group of countries (India, US,
Japan and Australia) since July 2025. The Quad intends to bolster cooperation in areas including maritime security,

infrastructure resilience, and emerging technologies.
New Delhi will also host a meeting of the BRICS foreign ministers, with talks expected to lay the groundwork for
the BRICS Leaders Summit in India in September. While the meeting could address the Iran war, BRICS is unlikely
to adopt a coordinated response to the crisis given members’ diverging views on the issue. But as we have argued,
the absence of a BRICS consensus on a geopolitical issue is not unusual. It should not be interpreted as either a

setback for the organisation or as a potential point of fracture (see Thematic Research: Geopolitical Crossroads:
India's Strategic Balancing Act).
Rubio’s India visit is expected to include talks on trade, critical minerals and energy. The visit will follow in the
wake of the latest round of India-US trade talks in Washington in late April. Both sides are reportedly close to
finalising the trade framework agreement from early February.
Rubio’s visit and the ongoing trade talks reaffirm our view that India-US ties remain largely on track despite recent

trade friction. This is due to a convergence of interests, including around long-term economic cooperation and
shoring up India’s position as an investment and manufacturing alternative to China (Thematic Research: The US-
India Bargain: Tariffs and Geopolitical Alignment).
Other key events, issues and themes to watch in May 2026
Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi expected to visit Europe and the UAE (15-20 May)
Listed in chronological order
US Secretary of State Marco Rubio to visit India (late May)

Source: Swapnil Bapat on Unsplash
India to host BRICS (14-15 May) and Quad (late May) foreign ministers’ meetings
6


===== Page 58 =====

Helen Belopolsky, Miha Hribernik | This Month in Geopolitics | May 2026
Singapore will host the annual Shangri-La Dialogue defence summit from 29-31 May. The event will bring
together military and government officials from across the Asia Pacific and outside the region. The event can
provide insights into how countries such as China and the US intend to approach major geopolitical challenges,
including second-order security impacts from the Iran war.

Colombia will hold the first round of its presidential elections on 31 May. A second round, if no candidate secures
more than 50% of the vote, is expected and scheduled for 21 June.
Left-wing candidate Iván Cepeda is currently leading in most polls, with a tight race expected between two centre-
right/right candidates, Paloma Valencia and Abelardo de la Espriella, who are competing for a position in the
second-round runoff.
Other key events, issues and themes to watch in May 2026

Presidential election in Colombia; first round (31 May)
Listed in chronological order
Shangri-La Dialogue defence summit in Singapore (29-31 May)
Source: Random Institute on Unsplash
7


===== Page 59 =====

and research from Deutsche Bank Research, economists, strategists, and research analysts.  Accordingly, you should assume that content in this document is based on or was
previously published and provided to Deutsche Bank clients who may have already traded on the basis of it.
Any views or estimates expressed in this material reflect the current views of the author(s) and may differ from the views and estimates of Deutsche Bank AG, its affiliates, other

Deutsche Bank personnel, and other materials published by Deutsche Bank.  The content in this material is valid as of the date shown on the first page and may change without
notice.  Deutsche Bank has no obligation to provide any updates or changes to the information herein.
This material should not be used as a basis for trading securities or other financial products and should not be considered to be a recommendation or individual investment advice

instrument. Nothing in this material constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice.  Deutsche Bank engages in secur ities transactions, including on a proprietary basis,
and may do so in a manner inconsistent with the views or information expressed in this material.
While information in this material has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, neither Deutsche Bank AG nor any o f its affiliates makes any representation or warranty,

Deutsche Bank AG Frankfurt, licensed to carry on banking business and to provide financial services under the supervision of the European Central Bank (ECB) and the German
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). In the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, a member of the
London Stock Exchange, authorized by UK’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and subject to limited regulation by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (under number

150018) and by the PRA. This information is distributed in Hong Kong by Deutsche Bank AG, Hong Kong Branch, in Korea by Deutsche Securities Korea Co. and in Singapore by
Deutsche Bank AG, Singapore Branch. In Japan this information is approved and/or distributed by Deutsche Securities Limited, Tokyo Branch. In Australia, retail clients should
obtain a copy of a Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) relating to any financial product referred to in this report and consider the PDS before making any decision about whether

prior written consent.  You also agree that you shall not scrape, extract, download, upload, sell or offer for sale any of the content in this material, and you agree not to use, or
cause to be used, any computerized or other manual or automated program or mechanism, tool, or process, including any scraper or spider robot, to access, extract, download,
scrape, data mine, display, transmit, or publish, any of the content in this material.
Appendix 1


===== Page 60 =====

Deutsche Bank Research Institute
April 2026


===== Page 61 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
2
Introduction: Macro, Markets, Geopolitics & T ech
A guide for CFOs & Corporates
We're pleased to share our April 2026 Guide for CFOs and Corporates,
providing essential insights into macroeconomics, markets,
geopolitics and technology. This report offers critical analysis and

perspectives to help corporate clients navigate today's complex
economic environment.
Key highlights:
– Macroeconomic outlook: The Iran War is driving an energy price
shock that threatens a global inflation shock, despite growth
remaining resilient outside the euro area.
– Market analysis: Higher energy costs and rates are pulling on
corporate earnings growth. Brent crude averages $84.80/bbl in
our baseline. Dollar weakness narrative resumes.
– Geopolitics: A long-term solution between the US and Iran is likely,

but post-conflict normalization will take months. Key Q2 events to
watch: Xi-Trump summit (14-15 May) and Ukraine ceasefire talks.
– Artificial Intelligence: AI disruption concerns have waned
somewhat, however, the software sector remains under intense
scrutiny and Q1 outlook announcements will be critical.
– The future of monetary policy: The energy shock has materially
shifted central bank trajectories. Fed on hold through 2026; ECB
hiking twice. The US continues to lead stablecoin adoption. Source: The House View: Infographic - 2026 Global Macro Events Calendar – 06-Jan-2026

Upcoming key macro events


===== Page 62 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
3
DB forecasts
GDP Growth (%)
2024 2025 2026F 2027F
Global 3.4 3.4 3.3 3.3
US 2.8 2.1 2.4 2.2
Eurozone 0.9 1.5 0.5 1.1
Germany -0.5 0.2 0.5 1.3
France 1.1 0.9 1.0 1.1
Italy 0.6 0.7 0.8 1.0
Spain 3.5 2.8 2.2 2.1
Japan -0.2 1.2 0.8 1.0

UK 1.1 1.4 0.9 1.2
China 5.0 5.0 4.9 4.5
India 7.2 7.5 6.7 7.2
Russia 4.9 1.0 0.8 1.3
Asia (ex Japan) 5.4 5.5 5.2 5.1
EEMEA 3.4 3.0 2.9 3.3
LatAm 2.5 1.9 2.0 1.8
EM 4.6 4.5 4.3 4.4
CPI Inflation, YoY* (%)
2025 2026F 2027F 2028F
US 2.7 3.3 2.5 2.5
Eurozone 2.1 2.8 2.2 2.2
Germany** 2.2 2.9 2.4 2.9
Japan 3.2 1.8 2.2 2.2
UK 3.4 3.1 2.6 2.0
China 0.1 1.5 2.0 2.0
India 2.2 4.6 4.2
Russia 8.7 5.7 5.4
Central Bank policy rate (%)
Current Jun 26F Sep 26F Dec 26F

US 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625
Eurozone 2.00 2.25 2.50 2.50
UK 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75
Japan 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00
China* 1.40 1.40 1.40 1.40
India 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25
Key market metrics
Current Jun 26F Sep 26F Dec 26F
US 10Y Yield (%) 4.34 4.30 4.45 4.45
EUR 10Y Yield (%) 3.03 2.90 3.00 3.10
EUR/USD 1.17 1.20 1.22 1.25
USD/JPY 159 155 152 150
USD/CNY 6.83 6.80 6.80 6.70
S&P 500 7174 7450 7675 8000
**Oil WTI  (USD/bbl) 97.51 90 82 73
**Oil Brent (USD/bbl) 109.56 96 87 78

**Gold 4669 5,100 5,500 5,800
– *CPI (%) forecasts are period averages. **Germany National CPI taken.
EEMEA: Czech Rep., Israel, Egypt, Hungary, Poland, Russia, Saudi Arabia, South Africa, Turkey, UAE
– LATAM (ex Venezuela): Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Mexico, Peru
– ASIA (ex Japan): China, HK, India, Indonesia, Korea, Malaysia, Philippines, Singapore, Sri Lanka,
Taiwan, Thailand, Vietnam
– Current prices as of April 28, 2026.
– *China rates are 7d OMO rates.

– **Gold, Brent and WTI forecasts are for Q2 / Q3 / Q4 2026.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP.


===== Page 63 =====

Sensitivity: Public
01.
Macroeconomics


===== Page 64 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
5
View Rationale
Growth increased to 4.9%
in 2026, 4.5% in 2027.
– Strong performance driven by a +15% y/y export
surge in Q1, rebound in domestic investment, and
some stabilization in the property sector.
EM
Notable downward

growth revisions due to
Iran war, including India
(FY27 growth 6.7% from
7.5%).
– In Asia, fuel price controls have limited immediate
inflation rise, but full effects will emerge as
domestic prices adjust over time to higher
imported input prices.
– CEEMEA has largest upward inflation revisions, but
more limited drag on activity and sentiment
compared to Asia. LatAM impact less pronounced,
electoral cycles remain in focus.
2026 Global growth
Energy shock weighs on growth, especially in the Euro Area

The drop in corporate sentiment from the Iran war is not as steep as one may think
Read: Global Economics: Monthly Flyover (April 2026) - Deutsche Bank Research
View Rationale
Growth at 3.3% in 2026 and
2027.
– The energy price shock from the Iran war is
reverberating through the global economy,
although the impact varies across regions.
Growth revised to 2.4% in 2026
(2.3% q4/q4) and 2.2% in 2027
(2.2% q4/q4).
– The downgrade reflects the drag from higher oil

prices and softer consumer spending,
counterbalanced by continued tailwinds from
supportive fiscal policy, and strong AI
investments.
Euro area growth decreased to
0.5% in 2026 and 1.1% in 2027.
German GDP downgraded to
0.5% in 2026 and 1.3% in 2027.
– The energy shock is impacting the region at a
time when growth was already softening,
lowering the bar to stagnation or even recession.
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2002 2004 2005 2006 2007 2009 2010 2011 2012 2014 2015 2016 2017 2019 2020 2021 2022 2024 2025 2026

CEO confidence, 1-10 scale CEO confidence in the economy, 1 yr from now
Aggressive interest
rate increase in 2022
Trump's first
election
GFC
Covid did not make a
significant impact
US tariff
annoucement


===== Page 65 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
6
3 key risks for the global economy
The growing economic effects of the war in the Middle East are raising further questions about the government response, not just in
the US but also in Europe.
2. Private credit

– Liquidity pressures are building but default rates remain low
while the most material exposures are with larger managers
with more buffer.
– There are expectations of a severe shock (BDCs’ discount to
NAV is about 20%) however, this fear has been relatively
muted in broader public credit markets.
Geopolitical uncertainty is now at its highest level since the US invasion of Iraq1. Iran conflict
– Oil-driven energy crisis risks global stagflation, leading to

higher prices and slower growth for corporates.
– Despite volatile environment, the probability of a long-term
solution is strong.
3. AI disruption
– Concerns that AI will disrupt the labour force are, so far,
unfounded in aggregate. The most likely scenario remains
that job losses will be limited to specific roles and most will
use AI to amplify existing roles.
– The Nasdaq has recovered from another AI-related sell-off.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Caldara, Iacoviello Geopolitical Risk Index . Takes automated text-search results of the electronic archives of newspapers

0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2026
Caldara Iacoviello Geopolitical Risk Index, quarterly uncertainty
9/11
US
invasion of
Iraq
Russia
invasion of
Ukraine
US-Iran
war


===== Page 66 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
7
1. PBoC
– Hold at 1.40% through 2026.
Central banks
The energy shock has shifted central bank trajectories
Source: FRB, Bloomberg Finance LP, Haver Analytics, Deutsche Bank Research. Updated April 24, 2026
ECB: 2.50% YE, previously 2.0%

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, ECB. Updated April 24, 2026
1. Fed
– Fed to remain on hold near neutral through 2026.
– Core PCE (2.9% q4/q4) set to remain above target, coupled with
labour market stabilization, makes chances of easing unlikely.
2. ECB
– 25bp hikes in Jun and Sep to 2.50% year-end, previously on hold.
– 2.5% at the upper end of neutral; ECB is sending signal on their
commitment to price stability.
1. BoE
– On hold at 3.75% through 2026. Upside risks stem from energy prices

trickling down into core goods and food.
2. BoJ
– 25bps hikes in Jul and Jan 27, 1.25% by Jan 2027.
FED: Central bank is done cutting interest rates from here
https://upload.wikimedia.org/wikipedia/commons/thumb/c/cb/Logo_European_Central_Bank.svg/2000px-Logo_European_Central_Bank.svg.png
https://encrypted-tbn2.gstatic.com/images?q=tbn:ANd9GcT4ki_NTvH42ONWISCfpOpNrx3BKSQyFMVOrXhfYSNkIwPjHrmbR1ajhNY
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28

Fed funds rate Fed dots
DB projections Fed funds futures
% %
Read: Focus Europe: ECB Preview: Tough talk, tough decisions - Deutsche Bank Research and Fed Notes: FOMC preview: Powell's last dance? - Deutsche Bank Research
1.00
1.50
2.00
2.50
3.00
3.50
4.00
4.50
Jan 24 Aug 24 Mar 25 Oct 25 May 26 Dec 26
Mkt pricing (24 Apr) Pre war Peak pricing Deposit facility rate


===== Page 67 =====

Sensitivity: Public
02.
Geopolitics


===== Page 68 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
9
Iran conflict
An end in sight?
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, International Energy Agency, dbDataInsights.
While diplomacy is continuing, the situation remains extremely fragile. The two sides’
postures continue to diverge on Iran’s nuclear programme, the pace of sanctions

relief, potential reparations, Iranian support for its proxies, and long-term control of
the Strait of Hormuz. While the ceasefire has been extended, the crisis remains
unresolved and we should expect continued escalations and bellicose rhetoric by all
parties to the conflict.
Despite the precarious nature of the ceasefire, and the added uncertainty due to the
US blockade of the Strait of Hormuz, we assess that the probability of a longer-term
solution is strong. The US is facing diminishing returns and growing costs. We have

already witnessed increasing domestic and international pressure on Trump, which we
expect will only increase as the economic fallout of crisis persists and expands.
However this ends, it will be a gamechanger for the Middle East. The long-standing
Middle East geopolitical equilibrium has been shattered. Iran will likely walk away
from this conflict with enhanced influence over the Strait of Hormuz, potential
sanctions relief, and with greater political leverage having withstood the US and

Israeli attacks. Meanwhile, the conflict illustrates that the Gulf is no longer buffered
from conflict. Consequently, its relationship with the US will inevitably be impacted.
We expect to see a diversification in Gulf relations in the aftermath of the acute crisis.
Post-conflict normalization could take months. Even if the war concludes in the near
term, rebuilding critical infrastructure and restoring shipping and energy flows will
take significant time. For example, repairs to Qatar’s Ras Laffan natural gas field – the

world’s largest – could take months, inevitably delaying a rebound in global supply.
A rebound in shipping (see chart) will also be contingent on confidence – both by
shippers and insurers – that the Strait of Hormuz is safe and clear of mines. This could
take weeks beyond an end to the conflict. Significant knock-on effects, including for
inflation, could continue well into 2026-H2 even with a near-term peace deal,
including in the form of jet fuel and fertilizer shortages.

Oil and gas infrastructure in the Gulf
Tanker activity exiting the Strait of Hormuz (in DWT'000s)


===== Page 69 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
10
Other geopolitical flashpoints
Key topics to monitor during 2026-Q2
– Trump-Xi Summit: Barring a significant escalation in the Iran war, the summit between
presidents Xi and Trump on 14-15 May will likely go ahead as planned – and deliver a package

of tactical economic agreements. Despite recent signs of friction over Iran, both sides appear
to be prioritizing bilateral stability for 2026, and the threshold for another summit deferral is
likely high. However, a breakdown of the US-Iran ceasefire and a return to fighting would be a
notable downside risk, which would increase the probability of another summit delay, or even a
cancellation.
– Putin’s visit to China: It will likely aim to cement the China-Russia partnership (including more

energy supplies for Beijing), and possibly to coordinate US policies after the Xi-Trump summit.
Unconfirmed Russian media reports suggest Putin could visit during the week of 18 May. Putin
and Xi could also seek to deepen diplomatic and security ties, and coordinate on the Iran
conflict, given Tehran’sstatus as both countries’ close partner.
– Ukraine ceasefire talks: Negotiations for a ceasefire in Ukraine are largely stalled. While there is
ongoing diplomatic activity, no new rounds of ceasefire talks are publicly scheduled for May or

June. Ukrainian President Zelenskyy has stated that the US wants Russia and Ukraine to reach a
peace agreement by June. However, the specifics of how this would manifest in terms of
scheduled meetings are unclear.
– While a ceasefire over the coming months is far from guaranteed, even credible steps toward a
deal would have implications for markets. These could include a possible easing of some
sanctions on Russia, the potential for increased Ukrainian agriculture exports, and for enabling

reconstruction – with implications for investments in minerals, gas infrastructure, technology,
city reconstruction, data centres and artificial intelligence.
For more on geopolitical flashpoints to watch out for, read our recent publications here:
Iran Ceasefire: An End in Sight? ; This Month in Geopolitics: April 2026 ; Geopolitical Crossroads: India's
Strategic Balancing Act ; High-Stakes Diplomacy: Navigating the Xi-Trump Summit in the Shadow of Iran

Source: Weichao Deng on Unsplash


===== Page 70 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
11
Selected geopolitical events in April - June
– 7 May: UK local elections and Scottish and Welsh parliamentary elections.
– 8-9 May: The Philippines will host the ASEAN Leaders’ Summit.
– 11-12 May: EU foreign and defence ministers meetings.

– 14-15 May: Presidents Xi and Trump are expected to meet in Beijing.
– Mid-May: President Putin is expected to visit Beijing.
– Mid-May: Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi is expected to visit the Netherlands,
Norway and Italy.
– 22 May: Nuclear Non-Proliferation Review Conference concludes in New York.
– 29-31 May: Singapore will host the annual Shangri-La Dialogue defence summit.
– 31 May: Colombia Presidential election first round
– Late May: US Secretary of State Marco Rubio will visit India for talks.

– Late May/Early June: The OECD Ministerial Council Meeting is expected to take place in Paris.
– 11 June: FIFA World Cup begins in US, Canada and Mexico
– 15-17 June: France will host the G7 Leaders’ Summit in Évian.
– 19 June: European Council meeting
– 1 July: The first review of the US-Mexico-Canada (USMCA) trade agreement
begins.
Source: aboodi vesakaran on Unsplash


===== Page 71 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
12
03.
Markets


===== Page 72 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
13
Commodity markets
The key question: When do the stresses in financial assets directly affected by the war begin to catalyse confidence problems
in broader markets?
Oil: Brent $96/bbl (Q2’26), $84.8/bbl (2026) average,

assuming the Strait of Hormuz will re-open in May.
– Improving but uncertain backdrop, thanks to (i) supply diversion
and remaining flows limiting the magnitude of oil supply
disruption; and (ii) significant demand reduction rising to -
2.3mmb/d y/y in April, according to the IEA.
– Risks: Longer suspension of the SoH (reopening beyond May)
could accelerate the run-up in Brent well above $100/bbl near
term. This would translate into higher-for-longer inflation.

– Central banks’ ability to look-through supply shocks is tested.
Gold: moderate YE target to $5,000/oz (prevs. $6,000/oz)
– Forecast based on belief that dollar weakness will resume.
Brent crude oil prices ($/bbl) have risen but are clearly lower today than they were in
2022
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP, IEA, KplerReports: Hsueh On Oil: Problem solved? - Deutsche Bank Research and Precious Special Report:
Gold investors to emerge from war bunker - Deutsche Bank Research

Strait of Hormuz April supply disruption down to 12mmb/d
55
65
75
85
95
105
115
125
135
2022 2022 2023 2024 2024 2025 2026
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP
USD 2025 Q1 2026 Q2 2026 Q3 2026 Q4 2026 2026 2027
WTI (bbl) 64.9 72.7 90.0 82.0 73.0 79.4 71.0
% change -0.5% 12.5% 9.3% 4.3% 6.6% 4.4%
Brent
(bbl) 68.20 78.10 96.00 87.00 78.00 84.80 75.00
% change 0.1% 12.9% 8.7% 4.0% 6.6% 4.2%
Latest oil price forecasts
19.87
-3.70 -0.70 -0.32

-1.90 -1.20
-12.05
2025 average East West pipe UAE ADCOP Iraq via Turkey Iran crude exports Other Gulf exports Disruption
0
5
10
15
20
25


===== Page 73 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
14
Rates & Credit markets
Dual shock of higher rates and energy costs introduces some uncertainty whether strong corporate growth forecasts will
continue into year-end
Private credit outflows have had some effect on broader

leveraged loans and some larger US money centres/regional
banks, tightening financial conditions somewhat.
– Private credits remain centred on AI disruption, particularly in the
software sector, rather than the ongoing energy shock.
– We see credit spreads to widen throughout 2026, with €HY 420bps,
$HY at 410bps YE and €IG at 110bps, $IG at 110bps YE.
– In Europe, weaker macro fundamentals plus energy shock driven
restrictive policy rates also account for wider spreads. Political risks

in Europe are growing.
We retain our conviction that the 10Y US Treasury Yield will
continue to fall, impacting corporate funding costs.
– Difficult to justify further Fed rate cuts given (i) unemployment rate
is broadly stable; (ii) inflation is sticky above 2% and; (iii) policy rates
are unlikely to be restrictive.
– AI tailwinds (either bubble or labour market impact) potentially
challenge our bearish view on 10Y UST (4.45% by YE).
Reports: IG & HY Strategy: The Narratives Are Turning Upside Down - Deutsche Bank Research and IG & HY Strategy: Private Credit: The gates are

up, but the problem is within - Deutsche Bank Research and Global Fixed Income Weekly: Strategy Update - Deutsche Bank Research
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, S&P Global. See: Thematic Research: Private capital monitor: Fear and loathing -
Deutsche Bank Research
US business development companies are a key proxy for the market‘s private credit
concerns. The current discount to NAV of about 20% suggests investors expect severe
stress events.
0.3
0.4

0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Median price-to-NAV ratio of funds in the S&P BDC index
Discount
Premium


===== Page 74 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
15
Foreign exchange markets
The dollar bullish narrative has eroded, staying dollar bearish
Despite some reprieve during war, big picture remains dollar bearish
– Usually, we would expect the dollar (as a haven currency) to have rallied more

than it did during the Iran war. That highlights some weakness.
– Strengthens the argument that the USD is still no longer as exceptional as a
high-yielder and as a global growth outlier.
– The Iran war exacerbated dollar weakness due to Asia and the Middle East
running down FX reserves and excess savings to finance higher energy costs.
Countries were already moving away from the USD into smaller, unspecified
reserve currencies (up from 3% to 6% of these assets in the last 3 years).

Currency outlook
– EUR/USD: Rise to $1.25 by year-end. While the energy price spike complicates
the Euro Area’s growth picture, it has also brought forward the ECB rate hike
cycle, leading to a stronger Euro.
– USD/JPY: Raised end-2026 to 150. JPY remains very cheap as the BOJ remains
unlikely to tighten policy rates this year.
– RMB: Supported by de-escalation in US-China tensions and the government’s
continued aims to internationalise the yuan. RMB remains cheap but a

stronger RMB would increase the appeal for global corporates to transition to
using and saving in the yuan, especially if most Middle East energy continues
to travel to Asia. Corporates continue to have scope to increase conversion of
their large stock and flow of FX into RMB.
Currency movements and DB forecasts for YE-2026 and 2027
Read: FX Blog: Time to sell USD - Deutsche Bank Research and The Big FX View: War and Peace - Deutsche
Bank Research

27th of Apr
2026
DB YE-2026
forecast
EUR/USD
1.17
1.25
1.25
GBP/USD
1.36
1.35
1.35
USD/CHF
0.78
0.76
0.80
USD/JPY
150
140
159
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP.
DB YE-2027
forecast


===== Page 75 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
16
04.
Technology


===== Page 76 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
17
Artificial intelligence
AI disruption concerns are rising in 2026, but there is no conclusive relationship between modest job declines and
substitution with AI
Job displacement from AI remains a concern, but the

aggregate evidence so far is encouraging
– A Dec 2025 NBER study suggests that AI, by substituting
primarily cognitive tasks, can shift relative demand away from
high-skilled roles toward jobs with lower education, lower
wages and more male workers.
– The evidence is still inconclusive, as noted by our US analysts. A
survey by Indeed found no noticeable deterioration amongst
roles of recent market concerns, such as legal, marketing,
accounting and management.

The case for AI’s positive benefits is growing
– According to an Atlanta Fed survey, business executives are
already seeing labour productivity gains from AI and anticipate it
to double in 2026. Firms in high-skill services are seeing the
greatest gains. Finance, for example, saw productivity growth of
0.8% last year, implied by revenues and employment, a figure
which is set to exceed 2% in 2026.
– Firms in manufacturing and construction saw smaller but still

positive implied gains of roughly 0.4 percent in 2025.
– The study found that productivity gains were associated with
innovation and demand-orientated channels rather than cost
reduction alone.
In Q1 26, mentions increased more than sixfold from Q4 2025 in earnings calls.
Impact of AI usage on firm outcomes
:
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Q1
2016
Q1
2017
Q1
2018
Q1
2019
Q1
2020
Q1
2021
Q1
2022
Q1
2023
Q1
2024
Q1
2025
Q1
2026
Mentions of AI Disruptions in Global Earnings Call Transcripts

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, The CFO Survey, Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Federal Reserve Bank of Atlanta. Question
asks for likert scale options that are mapped to percentage outcomes (i.e. increased moderately, 5.1 to 10%. Above chart uses
midpoint of ranges provided and +/- 5% above/below highest/lowest options to calculate numeric averages across respondents.
-1 -0.5 0 0.5 1 1.5 2 2.5 3 3.5

Total employment
Labor Cost per Worker
Operating costs (excl. labor)
Book value of PPE
Revenue from new products
Quality of service or product
Revenue or sales
Customer satisfaction or retention
Time spent on high value-added tasks
Output per worker
Decision speed/accuracy
2025
2026 (expected)


===== Page 77 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
18
Artificial intelligence
Companies will continue to invest in AI to varying degrees, but lack of trust remains a key barrier
Company adoption continues to be underway, with
more pickup in 2026
– Large firms led corporate AI adoption in 2025; smaller

firms are only beginning to invest in AI now, according to a
survey led by the Atlanta Fed and Richmond Fed.
– Around 30% of large firms expect to invest more than
$1mn in AI in 2026 (vs 1% of small firms). But nearly 60% of
smaller firms plan to invest less than $20,000 in AI in 2026
(vs 14% of larger firms).
Western economies lag in AI trust and adoption
– Barriers to adoption continue to be lack of workforce
training, belief AI is not yet sufficiently mature and privacy

concerns (see here)
– While the US leads in the most advanced models and
chips, and accounts for half of the world’s data centres,
US consumers are more suspicious of AI than their peers in
markets such as India, the UAE, China and Saudi Arabia.
Western consumers also lag behind in adoption.
– 48% of US consumers say they trust AI for work purposes,
and only 52% say they use it on a regular basis, according
to a survey.
– That compares with well over two-thirds trusting AI for

work in the leading Asian and Gulf markets and around 85
to 90 percent using it.
80% of firms will invest in AI in 2026, with large firms to invest the most, according to a CFO
survey led by the Atlanta Fed and Richmond Fed
Western economies lag behind their peers in trust in AI and intentional use at work
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, The CFO Survey. Large firms have > 500 employees. What do you expect your company’s total expenditure and
financial investment in AI technology/solutions will be over the next 12 months? Federal Reserve Bank Richmond, Federal Reserve Bank Atlanta.

0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
$1 -
$5K
$5k -
$20k
$20k -
$50k
$50k -
$100k
$100k-
$500k
$500k-
$1mn
$1mn -
$5mn
Over
$5mn
$1 -
$5k
$5k -
$20k
$20k -
$50k
$50k -
$100k
$100k
-
$500k
$500k
- $1mn
$1mn -
$5mn
Over
$5mn
2025 2026
AI investment by firm size and year
Large firm Small firm
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, University of Melbourne, KPMG.


===== Page 78 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

Light Violet
193|142|189
Night Violet
69|32|97
Accent
First level, 14 pt
Second level, 14 pt
− Third level, 14 pt
− Fourth level, 12 pt
− Fifth level, 10 pt
Sixth level, Footnote, 10 pt
Seventh level, Footnote, 8 pt
Standard text formats
19
Stablecoins
– Over 80% of transitions occurred outside the US in 2025. Use cases
expanding beyond crypto trading into treasury management,
payments & settlements, banking & fintech, e-commerce &
services.
– Top CFO risks: irreversible payments (30%), too many steps to

complete a transaction (22%), fragmented wallet infrastructure.
– In Europe, political debate on permissibility of multi-jurisdictional
stablecoins – agreement pending between ECB and European
Commission.
– US CLARITY Act still pending. Key debate includes stablecoin yield
and bank lending impact.
– March 2026: The OCC proposed stricter stablecoins rules, including
a minimum capital floor of $5mn and a ban on interest payments to
holders. This favours established payment giants and raises barriers

for new entrants. See here.
CBDCS
– Wholesale: ECB’s Project Pontes – a settlement solution for DL T-
based large-value transaction – launches Q3 2026.
– Retail: European Parliament vote scheduled 23 June 2026. Pilot
expected to begin in 2027; retail issuance targeted for 2029.
30%
22%
20%
20%
19%
19%
18%
16%
16%
10%
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25% 30%
Payments are irreversible, risk of losing funds
Too many steps to complete a payment
Exchange rate is not favourable or higher than expected

Confusing language/technical terms used at checkout
Manually entering my crypto wallet address
Having to open my crypto wallet in separate window
or platform
No conversion/exchange rate shown to my
local currency
I don't know how to claim back my money if needed
Needing to select a specific blockchain or stablecoin
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, BVNK Survey (March 2026).
Digital currencies
The digital euro is coming faster than most CFOs realise; Stablecoins are becoming a corporate treasury tool

Challenges with stablecoin payments experience (BVNK Survey)
I don’t find the process
frustrating


===== Page 79 =====

Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Luke Templeman / Adrian Cox / Helen Beloposky / Miha Hribernik / Jim Reid
Deep Blue
30|42|120
Dark Blue
22|24|78
Bright Blue
0|163|224
Vibrant Cyan
0|209|255
Bright Blue 20%
204|237|249
Bright Blue 10%
225|245|250
Grey
337|241|247
Primary
Autumn Green
161|172|5
Turquoise
59|184|184
Petrol
36|119|141
Summer Green
37|166|45
Spring Green
201|221|3
Lucent Yellow
255|230|0
Sundown
Orange
242|128|17
Bright Red
231|0|29

research from Deutsche Bank Research, economists, strategists, and research analysts.  Accordingly, you should assume that content in this document is based on or was previously
published and provided to Deutsche Bank clients who may have already traded on the basis of it.
Any views or estimates expressed in this material reflect the current views of the author(s) and may differ from the views and estimates of Deutsche Bank AG, its affiliates, other

Deutsche Bank personnel, and other materials published by Deutsche Bank.  The content in this material is valid as of the date shown on the first page and may change without notice.
Deutsche Bank has no obligation to provide any updates or changes to the information herein.
This material should not be used as a basis for trading securities or other financial products and should not be considered to be a recommendation or individual investment advice for

Bank AG Frankfurt, licensed to carry on banking business and to provide financial services under the supervision of the Europ ean Central Bank (ECB) and the German Federal Financial
Supervisory Authority (BaFin). In the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, a member of the London Stock
Exchange, authorized by UK’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and subject to limited regulation by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (under number 150018) and by the

PRA. This information is distributed in Hong Kong by Deutsche Bank AG, Hong Kong Branch, in Korea by Deutsche Securities Korea Co. and in Singapore by Deutsche Bank AG, Singapore
Branch. In Japan this information is approved and/or distributed by Deutsche Securities Limited, Tokyo Branch. In Australia, retail clients should obtain a copy of a Product Disclosure
Statement (PDS) relating to any financial product referred to in this report and consider the PDS before making any decision about whether to acquire the product.

written consent.  You also agree that you shall not scrape, extract, download, upload, sell or offer for sale any of the content in this material, and you agree not to use, or cause to be
used, any computerized or other manual or automated program or mechanism, tool, or process, including any scraper or spider r obot, to access, extract, download, scrape, data mine,
display, transmit, or publish, any of the content in this material.
Appendix 1
