# 041_Westpac_IQ_Merged part 2

===== Page 55 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
This quarter’s panel data captures the early impacts 
of higher fuel prices due to the Middle East conflict. 
The quarter as a whole shows consumers being more 
cautious around their spending, choosing to spend more 
on essentials over discretionary items. The monthly data 
shows the March price shock did see consumers increase 
their spending on fuel while saving less. Delving into the 
disaggregated data across different spending categories, 
there is also early evidence of substitutions as consumers 
adapt to sharply higher fuel costs. 
Signs of caution emerging
Average consumer spending lifted 0.6%qtr to be up 6.5% 
over the year to Q1. This is a material step down from growth 
seen in Q4 (+1.6%) and Q3 (+1.8%).

The Q1 results show the impact of the Middle East conflict 
on oil prices as well as early impacts from the February 
and March interest rate hikes. It is worth noting that rate 
rises often factor into mortgage payments with a lag. This 
means the Q1 panel captures only the start of the increase 
in mortgage payments. Further iterations of the panel will 
contain more information on how consumers are faring.  
The headline number was driven by fuel spending which rose 
6.7%qtr as well as solid contributions by food & non ‑alcoholic 
beverages and recreation & culture. Clothing and footwear 
and transport excluding fuel both posted a drag on spending. 
Non‑fuel spending was up just 0.5%, a significant step down 
from the 1%+ growth seen through Q2 ‑Q4 in 2025. Note all 
analysis is on a per customer basis. 
Consumers absorbing fuel price and rate increases
Illiana Jain
Economist
Neha Sharma
Economist
Who is hurting the most?
First, it is worth gauging just how big the shock is. On a 
monthly non‑seasonally adjusted basis, fuel spending 
increased dramatically rising 45.5% in March 2026, this 
compares to an average of around 11% for March months over 
2022‑25 – March is clearly seasonally‑strong. Adjusting for 
this, fuel spending rose 23%. This was the largest monthly 
increase in fuel spending recorded on the panel. As for non ‑
fuel spending, it increased 9.9% in March, slightly above the 
9.5% increase seen for March months over 2022 ‑2025. 
By cohorts, young people aged 18 ‑24 and young families 
with mortgages were among the most exposed to fuel price 
increases. Those aged 18 ‑24 on average have fuel make up 
over 6% of total spending compared to between 4 ‑5% among 
all other age cohorts. Their fuel expenditure rose the least at 
3.7%qtr while older cohorts saw a larger increase in spend 
– up 8.3%qtr amongst those in the 65+ cohort. The biggest 
consumers of fuel in level terms are those aged 45 ‑54, many 
of whom are mortgage holders. Their fuel spend increased 
8%qtr. In part this likely reflects their relatively limited scope 
to adjust their spending on fuel. It was this age cohort that 
saw the smallest increase in non ‑fuel spending at 0.3%qtr.

By mortgage holder group, those with a mortgage increased 
their fuel spending by 8.3%qtr while those without a mortgage 
saw an increase of 5.0%qtr. There was some difference in 
non‑fuel spending with mortgage holders increasing spending 
by 0.3%qtr, relative to a 1.7% average quarterly growth in 
spending through 2025. This compares to 0.5%qtr for non ‑
mortgage holders vs 1.3%qtr through last year.


===== Page 56 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
Are consumers drawing from their savings?
Average customer savings balances rose 1.4%qtr (~$600) 
in Q1 to $43.4k. This is a slowdown from 3.2%qtr rise in Q4 
and is the second slowest pace seen in one ‑and‑a‑half‑years. 
Savings growth also amounted to just 3.4% of income in Q1, 
running below its three year average of 4.0%, Some of this 
slowdown may reflect stronger ‑than‑usual spending in Q4 
with customers left to take care of the bill in Q1 (e.g. credit 
card and buy‑now‑pay‑later repayments).

Average customer balances rose across all age groups and 
income groups in the quarter. By age, the 35–44 cohort was 
a bit of an outlier with average balances up just 0.4%qtr 
and monthly data shows this was also the only group to 
drawdown on savings in March. Savings growth across the 
remaining age cohorts was more solid, at around 1–2%qtr. By 
income quintile, growth in balances ranged from 0.9–2.5%qtr, 
with the strongest increases recorded among lower‑income 
households.

Looking at the monthly savings data, there is little evidence of 
a broad‑based drawdown. As noted above, average balances 
rose across all cohorts in March, with the exception of the 
35–44 age group. However, averages can mask pockets of 
vulnerability. Unit‑record data show that just over half of 
customers ended March with lower savings, though this does 
not appear to be a material lift from recent history.

Where we are seeing a more meaningful shift is in the share 
of customers becoming more ‘savings reliant’. The proportion 
of under‑65s whose savings have declined for three (and six) 
consecutive months has risen to its highest (second highest) 
level in over two years. By age, the largest increase over the 
past six months has been among the 25–44 age groups. 
Meanwhile, across income levels, the largest step‑up in 
drawdowns has occurred in the middle income quintile.

Where are they substituting from?
There were some substitution effects being observed – non ‑
fuel spend rose 0.5%qtr, a step down from 1.5%qtr in Q4 and 
Q3. This came despite a 6.9%qtr lift in utilities from a roll off 
of electricity subsidies. Indeed, households were effectively 
adjusting to two simultaneous price shocks – fuel and utilities 
– amplifying the pressure on discretionary spending. Some 
categories of discretionary spending posted meaningful 
declines including; alcohol & tobacco (–2.2%qtr), clothing & 
footwear (–1.5%qtr), household furnishings (–1.5%qtr), and 
restaurants & hotels (–0.5%qtr). 
In monthly terms, a lot of the pull‑back was actually seen in the 
first two months of the year with March supporting the quarterly 
print, largely driven by fuel and essential categories. This 
comes after a strong November and December period. Non‑fuel 
spending fell 0.2%mth in January followed by a 0.3%mth gain in 
February and a 1.6%mth lift in March. Looking into the details, 
most of the weakness for March was in discretionary categories 
like alcohol & tobacco (–0.8%mth) and restaurants and hotels 
(+0.1%mth). This suggests that while consumers did continue to 
spend more, they focussed much of the spending on essentials 
rather than discretionary goods and services.
The heatmap below shows the contribution to growth of the 
different categories of spending. The more red the category, 
the stronger the spending has been compared to the history 
of that series. Blue represents a slowdown in spending. In 
the brightest red is fuel spending and food spending. Food 
has been strong due to both its high share in most people’s 
spending as well as a shift to essential spending.
Looking at average spending per transaction, this increased 
across most categories for the month of March, fuel being the 
one showing the largest increase. Consumers spent $58.52 
per transaction in March compared to $57.50 in February. The 
number of transactions per customer also posted a gain of 1%.


===== Page 57 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
Mortgagor savings buffer distribution
What does this mean for the RBA?                                             
Our Q1 data shows a gradual but uneven slowdown in 
household demand . Non‑fuel spending slowed materially in 
Q1, with clear weakness in discretionary categories, indicating 
spending is starting to slow already. At the same time, strong 
growth in essential spending, fuel, food and utilities, shows 
that aggregate consumption is being supported by necessity 
rather than underlying strength, masking a deterioration in real 
household purchasing power.

This dynamic aligns closely with recent RBA messaging that 
demand needs to slow to contain inflation, particularly given 
capacity constraints and ongoing price pressures from energy 
shocks. However, the Panel also suggests that part of the 
adjustment is being driven by supply‑side price increases 
rather than monetary policy alone. The inflation aspect of this 
adjustment clearly complicates the policy trade‑off.

Household balance sheets remain a key offset, with savings 
buffers still elevated. But the slowing pace of savings 
accumulation, rising share of households drawing down, and 
emerging stress in middle‑income and 25–44 cohorts indicate 
that financial pressures are intensifying at the margin. Overall, 
the data support a cautious RBA stance. That said, the data is 
only just capturing the very early impacts of both fuel price and 
interest rate increases. 
About the Westpac-DataX Consumer Panel
Developed by DataX, Westpac’s data analytics service for 
institutional and business banking customers, the dataset links 
transaction activity with balance sheet information to give a 
complete view of income, spending, saving and borrowing flows. 
The resulting sample of over 1 million customers provides an 
accurate representation of trends across the wider Australian 
consumer. 
Monthly observations are available back to January 2019 with 
timely updates provided a few weeks after the end of each month. 
As such, it is perfectly suited to quickly tracing the impact and 
responses to events like interest rate moves and energy price 
shocks.
While the data are seasonally adjusted, there appears to 
be some residual seasonality. Even so, the trend hints at a 
growing cohort of customers coming under financial pressure 
and becoming increasingly reliant on savings and we will 
continue to monitor this closely in the coming months. 
How are mortgagors placed to weather this? 
Against the backdrop of the Middle East conflict and with 
three rate hikes now in play – and likely more to come – most 
mortgage holders appear well placed to absorb the pressures. 
Average savings among mortgage holders sit just under $80k, 
up 2.3%qtr. In 2021/22 dollar terms, balances are around 10% 
higher than both the start of the previous tightening cycle and 
when rates last hit 4.35%, highlighting that mortgagors are 
entering this phase on a stronger footing than in the past.

On average, mortgage holders now hold savings equivalent 
to 22.6 months of essential expenses (minimum mortgage 
repayment, food & utilities). This is a 0.3%qtr decline, the first 
drop since mid‑2022 and appears to be largely a result of a 
3.2%qtr increase in food costs – the highest since Q1 2024. 
Average minimum mortgage repayments have also started to 
increase since December 2025, weighing on buffers. Note that 
the increase in repayments likely reflects compositional shifts 
from new home buyers as well as existing holders possibly 
fixing their mortgage ahead of expected rate hikes. Buffers 
are still 11.6%yr higher and at the highest level in two ‑and‑a‑
years.

While buffers remain high in average terms, the distribution 
highlights uneven financial resilience across mortgage holders. 
Around one‑third of borrowers hold less than three months 
of buffers, and although the distribution has shifted modestly 
to the right since 2024, indicating some improvement, a 
meaningful share of customers remains exposed to extended 
income disruptions. Job losses therefore remain a key risk in 
the current economic environment. With the median job search 
duration around 11 weeks, a subset of borrowers may struggle 
to keep up with mortgage repayments unless shortfalls are 
absorbed through reductions in other essential spending.


===== Page 58 =====


===== Page 59 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward‑looking statements. These forward ‑looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG‑related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit ‑taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf


===== Page 60 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly‑owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker ‑dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a‑6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non ‑U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non ‑U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker‑dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self‑regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub‑licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub‑
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.


===== Page 61 =====

#trade #australia
Australia’s Trade in Goods Account, March
By Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac
15:15 May 07 2026 Share
Australia’s monthly goods trade balance fell into a deficit for the first time since 2017, driven
by a combination of higher costs for fuel imports, continued volatility in gold trade, and most
surprisingly, a truly remarkable surge in imports for data processing machines associated
with AI. Trade balance: –$1.8bn. Export values: –2.7%mth. Import values: +14.1%mth.


===== Page 62 =====

March’s goods trade data surprised on many fronts. The headline balance collapsed from a surplus of
$5.0bn in February to a deficit of –$1.8bn March, marking the first monthly goods trade deficit since
December 2017. Higher fuel costs stemming from the Middle East conflict was an important driver, but
it was not the only factor at play. Most surprisingly, there was a truly remarkable surge in imports for
data processing machines, often associated with the AI. Continued volatility in gold on both sides of the

ledger were also a factor, alongside lower export earnings.
Exports
Export earnings disappointed in March, falling –2.7%. An important driver of this was a broad-based
pull-back in rural goods exports (–11.6%) from a solid showing in February. This latest move looks to
be largely volume-driven based on other sources of price data. Rural goods exports have been more
volatile month-to-month, but it is operating around a solid trend that has broadly supported export

earnings of late.
However, the fact that non-rural goods did not provide any material offset to this was surprising, barely
eking out a gain in the month (0.3%). Across our ‘Big 3’ commodity exports: coal dropped –1.8%, metal
ores and minerals (i.e. iron ore) fell –1.4%, while the lift in other mineral fuels (i.e. LNG) was
underwhelming (+4.6%).
Additional data provided by the ABS on prices and volumes for these commodities revealed some


===== Page 63 =====

important nuances.
For LNG, export volumes lifted broadly in line with seasonal patterns in March, and interestingly, prices
received was virtually flat in the month (+0.3%). Compared to this time last year, this export price index
is –18.7% lower, given the broad decline in prices over 2025. This is a stark contrast to what we are
observing in the LNG spot market, where prices have lifted notably since the onset of the Middle East
shock.
That said, it is important to note that it typically takes a couple of months for changes in spot prices to

feed through to the reported export prices in ABS trade data. The rate at which this can occur also
depends on some extent to the scale of the move in prices. For example, while LNG spot prices lifted
notably in March, it is nowhere near the extent of the 2022 Russia-Ukraine shock, which saw a
relatively faster pass-through into export prices. Ultimately, while a significant lift to export earnings
from LNG was not immediately apparent in the March data, it is reasonable to assume that we will see

some increase over the coming months.
Meanwhile for iron ore, there was a seasonal lift in both export volumes and prices but it was fairly
underwhelming compared to previous years. It was a similar story for coal export volumes too, although
prices had a stronger showing in the month. Big swings in gold exports continue to add a layer of
volatility – this time, contributing to the decline in export earnings with a –6.1% fall this month. This
follow an extraordinary 42% surge over January and February, however.


===== Page 64 =====

Imports
The drop in export earnings was compounded by a surge in the import bill, climbing 14.1% in March,
the largest monthly gain in over three years. Before discussing the story around fuel imports, though, it
is important to mention that the bulk of this move came down to one line item: automatic data
processing machines (ADP), which exploded a whopping $2.9bn in March alone, a 300% increase.
This likely captures many of the hardware components associated with AI, such as NVIDIA chips that

can fetch US$30-50k each. We had been consistently highlighting the strong uptrend in ADP imports
over 2025 for this reason, but we are still puzzled at the sheer scale of the surge in March. This may
well be a robust signal of the AI investment drive taking place on Australian shores, even if there is
some noise in the mix.
Meanwhile, there was also 37.4% surge in petroleum product imports in March, reflecting higher global
prices since the onset of the Middle East conflict. The ABS provided additional detail on the prices and

volumes of refined petroleum imports in March:
Gasoline import prices rose 20.6%, and volumes imported rose 18.8%.
Diesel import prices rose 42.2% and volumes imported fell –11.6%.


===== Page 65 =====

We are likely to continue seeing extreme volatility on this front over the coming months, as both prices
fluctuate due to the conflict and volumes shift as authorities aimed to secure inventory. There is likely
some lag in this data too.
Prices of and volumes for crude (unrefined) petroleum imports also bounced higher in the month but
given its much smaller share in the energy import mix, it didn’t have as much of an impact in aggregate,
given we mostly import already refined fuel products. Extreme volatility in gold remains an important

driver too, with import values for this commodity jumping 35% higher in March adding to the import bill.
Consumption goods imports rose 1.2% in March, building on February’s lift.
Overall, monthly data suggests that the nominal goods trade balance has narrowed by around $4.6bn,
from $9.9bn in Q4 to $5.3bn in Q1, driven predominately by a surge in imports, but also a weaker
showing in exports. This provides a gauge on what to expect for the official reading on Australia’s

current account balance as far as the goods side is concerned – the main uncertainty, though, is the
services balance, for which there are fewer current indicators to draw from. Additionally, large monthly
swings has also made it difficult to pin-point just how much of the nominal goods trade data is simply
due to price effects rather than real volumes.
Jet fuel import prices rose 42.7, and volumes imported fell –6.9%.


===== Page 66 =====

Related articles
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Australia’s Trade in Goods Account, February
April 02 2026 • 5 mins
#trade
By Mantas Vanagas


===== Page 67 =====

Australia’s Trade in Goods Account, January
March 05 2026 • 5 mins
#trade
By Mantas Vanagas
#trade


===== Page 68 =====

Talking about trade: more tariff uncertainty
February 27 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke & Mantas Vanagas
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics


===== Page 69 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.


===== Page 70 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.


===== Page 71 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.


===== Page 72 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and


===== Page 73 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.


===== Page 74 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%


===== Page 75 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au


===== Page 76 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au


===== Page 77 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf


===== Page 78 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.


===== Page 79 =====

#cliffnotes #rba #australia #inflation #us #fomc #ecb #aud #usd
Cliff Notes: beyond th e h orizon
By Elliot Clarke, Illiana Jain&Ryan Wells
13:05 May 15 2026 Share
Key insights from the week that was.
The 2026/27 Federal Budget was the main event in Australia this week. Our bulletin provides a detailed
view of the Government’s fiscal position, policy measures and economic expectations over the forward
estimates. Compared to the projections from MYEFO, the budget bottom line has improved owing to

commodity price windfalls, with the deficit now expected to hold steady around 1.0% of GDP. Larger
improvements in the Government’s finances are anticipated in the outer years as the Government’s


===== Page 80 =====

major saving measures deliver. Of particular note is the clamp-down on NDIS spending announced in
April, which is expected to relieve budget pressure from payment cost inflation and help keep Federal
net debt low versus other OECD countries.
The tax reform proposed in the Budget was also consequential and broad-based, impacting negative
gearing, the capital gains tax discount and discretionary trusts. Our conversation with Chief Economist
Luci Ellis explores these proposed changes and the other key measures for households. Budget night

also saw a number of initiatives put forward for business and SMEs, alongside a range of reforms that
should help foster productivity growth in the long run. While meaningful, these measures are not
expected to materially add or detract from the fiscal impulse over the next couple of years, thereby
having little impact on the RBA’s policy calculus.
Our Q1 Westpac-DataX Consumer Panel meanwhile showed that consumers are having to reduce
savings and discretionary consumption to absorb the spike in fuel and electricity prices (the latter now

due to the roll-off of government rebates). Mortgage holders are well placed in aggregate to weather
the shock from the Middle East and interest rate rises; but the distribution of buffers is varied, leaving
some more exposed. Wages growth remains robust and is only slowing gradually, offering support to
consumer demand without posing an immediate threat to inflation. That said, the pass-through of non-
labour input cost inflation was a key message in this week’s NAB business survey, giving the RBA

cause to remain cautious of inflation’s potential persistence.
Last Friday in the US, nonfarm payrolls beat expectations, rising 115k in April with only a small -16k
revision to the previous two months. This left the three-month average at 48k, consistent with labour
demand and supply being in balance. The unemployment rate remained steady at 4.3% as the
participation rate edged down 0.1ppts. On a multi-month view, the labour market can be characterised

as a ‘low hire, low fire’ environment, a sentiment echoed by FOMC member Schmid this week. This
backdrop should result in moderate wage growth over the coming year.
The April CPI then came in as expected at 0.6%, 3.8%yr. The headline outcome reflected a further
5.4% gain for gasoline prices after March’s 21.2% surge. An outsized 0.6% increase in the shelter
component was also observed, reportedly biased up by a delayed sample reset following the
government shutdown late last year. Abstracting from these two effects, underlying inflation was

modest in the month. Energy was also a major contributor to import prices in April, up 1.9% (0.7% ex-
petroleum) to be 4.2% higher over the year. Seeing as the US is an energy product exporter, export
prices have also strengthened of late, up 3.3% in April to be up 8.8%yr. US consumers look to be
weathering the surge in energy prices well so far, headline and control group retail sales up 0.5% in
April, a solid gain. Tax refunds have supported spending of late, and established households continue

to benefit from fixed interest rates and wealth gains.
China’s price data was also stronger than expected in April because of energy prices. Consumer
inflation lifted to 1.2%yr, while producer prices were up 2.8%yr. Producer price gains were
concentrated in the most energy-intensive sectors such as metals, while sectors more vulnerable to
excess capacity saw price declines. While recent data has been encouraging for China’s deflationary
cycle, it is worth noting that it’s the supply-side driving the outcomes, not demand. Further fiscal

support will be required to sustainably lift China out of deflation.


===== Page 81 =====

Related articles
Of course, the main event in China this week was not a data release but instead the meeting between
President Xi and President Trump. While limited in terms of the detail, the outcomes were productive.
The US has reportedly agreed to reduce its controls over China’s access to technology; and in return,
China will buy more commodities from the US. A “Board of Trade” is also to be set up to allow trade
disputes to be resolved through bilateral negotiation. President Trump also reportedly emphasised the

need for China to help bring the conflict in the Middle East to an end and re-open the Strait of Hormuz.
Whether progress is seen on that front is an open question. President XI has been invited to
Washington in September to continue in-person discussions.
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Cliff Notes: dynamic risks
May 08 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes


===== Page 82 =====

By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain & Ryan Wells
Cliff Notes: policy perspectives from across the globe
May 01 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain , Ryan Wells &1 more


===== Page 83 =====

Cliff Notes: Middle East conflict seemingly at an impasse
April 24 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke & Illiana Jain
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics


===== Page 84 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.


===== Page 85 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.


===== Page 86 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.


===== Page 87 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and


===== Page 88 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.


===== Page 89 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%


===== Page 90 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au


===== Page 91 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au


===== Page 92 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf


===== Page 93 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.


===== Page 94 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%


===== Page 95 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au


===== Page 96 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au


===== Page 97 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf


===== Page 98 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.


===== Page 99 =====

#cliffnotes #rba #australia #inflation #us #fomc #ecb #aud #usd
Cliff Notes: dynamic risks
By Elliot Clarke, Illiana Jain&Ryan Wells
08:05 May 08 2026 Share
Key insights from the week that was.
In an 8-1 vote, the RBA Monetary Policy Board (MPB) delivered its third consecutive rate hike, raising
the cash rate by 25bps to its prior peak of 4.35%. The MPB stated that “the conflict in the Middle East
has resulted in sharply higher fuel and related commodity prices” and that “this is likely to have second-

round effects on prices for goods and services more broadly.” Inflation is now expected “to remain
above target for some time”. The MPB are also attune to the risk of “price rises get[ting] built into longer


===== Page 100 =====

term inflation expectations” in the event of a longer, or more severe, conflict.
In a video update midweek, Chief Economist Luci Ellis noted that Governor Bullock’s press conference
was a bit more dovish than we had anticipated, with the last three hikes framed as giving some space
for the MPB to assess how the risks evolve. That said, the staff’s forecasts – which are predicated on
an assumption of around one-and-a-half more rate hikes – have underlying inflation peaking at 3.8%yr

in Q2 2026 and not returning to target until the end of its forecast horizon at June 2028. Inflation risks
are firmly skewed towards a higher peak and potentially a slower return to target. We therefore
continue to expect another two rate hikes from the RBA in coming months. But, given Governor
Bullock’s somewhat more cautious tone, we admit the case for June is now more finely balanced.
Rate hikes already look to be having an effect on the housing market, with national dwelling price

growth slowing from a monthly pace of 0.6% in January to 0.2% in April. Performance across the
capital cities is mixed, with prices down in Sydney and Melbourne prices but still rising in Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth. While a firming uptrend for dwelling approvals bodes well for supply, cost
pressures stemming from the Middle East conflict will likely cause delays and some second thoughts
on projects planned but not commenced.
Trends across other parts of the economy are also starting to shift. The ABS’ nominal household

spending indicator bounced 1.6% in March on account of higher fuel costs, mirroring our own
consumer card activity data. Abstracting from price effects, we expect real consumption to gain 0.6% in
Q1; however, outside of fuel and electricity (buoyed by the rebate roll-off), the spending pulse looks
faint. This speaks to the more challenging economic outlook taking hold across the nation, particularly
in non-mining states where revenue constraints and higher expenses provide less scope for fiscal

support.
Before moving offshore, a final note on trade. Unlike the shocks of recent years which benefitted
Australia’s net trade position, recent data revealed the nominal goods trade surplus buckled into
deficit in March for the first time since 2017. Higher fuel import costs (+37.4%) and volatility in gold
played important roles. But the chief culprit behind the surprise was a remarkable surge in data
processing machine imports, up $2.9bn or 300% in the month. While noisy and likely a wash for GDP –

being offset by inventories or investment – this is clear evidence of the global AI investment drive
reaching Australia’s shores.
Offshore, markets have been pre-occupied by developments in the Middle East. At the beginning of the
week, President Trump announced Project Freedom, an initiative to provide safe passage through the
Strait of Hormuz to ships stuck in the Persian Gulf. As soon as the operation commenced though,
skirmishes were seen between the US and Iranian military. UAE energy infrastructure was also

targeted.
The US did not retaliate, however, instead referencing an end to the offensive portion of this war. And,
within two days, Project Freedom was suspended indefinitely to make way for further intermediated
negotiations. Reports suggest progress has been made, albeit without detail. Iran is arguably coming
under greater pressure to make a deal, with China’s Foreign Minister emphasising this week the need
for a quick end to the conflict and re-opening of the Strait while meeting Iran’s Foreign Minister. The


===== Page 101 =====

Related articles
timing of this development is not a surprise considering President Trump and President Xi are due to
meet mid-month.
Data releases were uneventful this week. The ISM services index for April eased slightly to 53.6. The
new orders index fell 7.1pts to 53.5, slightly below its 10-year pre-COVID average, and the
employment indicator rose 4pts but remained weak versus history. The latest JOLTS job openings data
and ADP private payrolls release were broadly consistent with balance between labour demand and

supply. For the FOMC, this will keep the focus on inflation risks. Guidance given by FOMC members
this week was consistent with this view.
A full update on our expectations for the global economy, Australia and New Zealand will be released
later today on Westpac IQ in our May Westpac Market Outlook.
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
#cliffnotes


===== Page 102 =====

Cliff Notes: beyond the horizon
May 15 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain & Ryan Wells
Cliff Notes: policy perspectives from across the globe
May 01 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain , Ryan Wells &1 more


===== Page 103 =====

Cliff Notes: Middle East conflict seemingly at an impasse
April 24 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke & Illiana Jain
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics


===== Page 104 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.


===== Page 105 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.


===== Page 106 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.


===== Page 107 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and


===== Page 108 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.


===== Page 109 =====

#australia #luciellis #fx #interestrates#rba
Th ree ch allenging trends and th e opportunities th ey present forAustralian women
By Luci Ellis
Chief Economist Westpac Group, Westpac
12:45 May 07 2026 Share
Three challenging trends – demographics, technology, and expectations of government –
present opportunities for Australian women. How might the federal budget support them?


===== Page 110 =====

Thanks to the Women in Economics Network for the opportunity to speak to you today and share the
stage with such accomplished professional colleagues. I am grateful for the important work WEN does.
Economics is a science of human behaviour. Our endowments, our priorities and – in some
circumstances – our physiology can all matter for our choices and our economic outcomes. If
economics does not incorporate those diverse perspectives, it loses the ability to explain human

behaviour. A profession that is more balanced across both sexes is critical to getting that diversity of
perspectives.
With so much going on in the world, it is all too easy to fixate on immediate problems, ignoring the
longer-term issues – and opportunities. Today I want step back and talk about those longer-
term trends. I will:
These three trends are:
Ageing population, growing workforce
Many in the room will be under the impression that population ageing means a shrinking

workforce. I am here to tell you that this is not true. Work with my Westpac colleague Ryan Wells back
in September shows that in most Western economies, the labour force participation rate is in fact rising.
In Australia it is on a five-decade up-trend, reaching historical highs in recent years.
Yes, the share of older people in the population is increasing. Population ageing happens because we
are living longer, healthier lives. People will make different choices when lifespans lengthen. They will

work for longer and retire later. Part of this stems from policy changes, such as higher pension eligibility
ages. But much of it is the choices people make, knowing that they would otherwise need to fund very
long retirements, and knowing that they do not need to retire early due to ill-health in the same
numbers as previous generations did. Thus participation rates within age groups rise, especially the
55–64 age group. This can be (and for Australia, so far is) enough to offset the rising share of older

people.
The reason for this counter-intuitive result is an example of first-round thinking not being enough. We
need to account for people’s responses changing as circumstances change. Just as Toyota taught us
to ask “why” five times to get to the root cause, we must ask, “and then what?” five times to understand
how a longer-term trend will play out. Changes in age mix do not happen in isolation. The “and then
what” is that participation rates within age groups rise and can more than offset an ageing population

outline three big trends shaping current and future outcomes
highlight the opportunities these trends present for Australian women – not just the downsides
suggest some ways that the federal budget, and government more broadly, might promote those
opportunities, rather than focus only on the downsides.
The ageing population
The AI technology revolution – and it is a revolution
Rising expectations of government – perceived or real


===== Page 111 =====

mix.
I suspect that people also missed this trend because it is not happening in the United States. US life
expectancy has not really increased in the past couple of decades; premature death is much higher
than in peers such as Australia and Europe. And so participation of the 55–64 age group, and even the
prime-age 25–54 group, in the US lags other advanced economies. The gap is now such that overall
participation in Japan is noticeably higher than in the US, despite Japan’s population being much older

on average.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women
Population ageing does present opportunities for women. First, some of the increase in overall
participation stems from still-rising participation by women in the 25–54 age group, not just from older
workers. There will always be some jobs – say, furniture removal – where male upper body
strength will remain an advantage. As the workforce changes, though, job design will need to evolve to

fit those changes, and the changes driven by an ageing workforce and a more female workforce
are likely similar.
In addition, as lifespans and working lives lengthen, career breaks for family reasons become less of
a setback in the accumulation of retirement savings. Since women are more likely to take such breaks
than men, this eases a current disadvantage.
How the federal budget might support this
If government wants to realise the opportunities created by an ageing population

and an expanding workforce that is older and more female, it should do everything it can to smooth the
path for women to enter the workforce, re-enter the workforce after a break, and stay in the workforce
as long as they feel able.
Getting the NDIS on a sustainable footing and back to its core purposes of supporting the severely
disabled and reducing family members’ caring burden is a singular example of what is needed. The
“sandwich generation” task of caring for children and elderly parents simultaneously is

a disproportionately borne by women. Well-funded support in schools, with support and training for
teachers and parents alike, may support some families with children currently on the NDIS better than
a system that creates more life admin by funding appointments with service providers, which parents
need to attend with their children.
More broadly, designing every program with the principle of reducing life admin for families should be a
red thread through all federal and state initiatives.

Tax and retirement policy could be reshaped to ensure women who took career breaks are not held
back by cliff effects and complexity from accumulating the needed retirement savings.
I note also that much of Australia’s economic policy apparatus has been built on the false


===== Page 112 =====

assumption that ageing results in a shrinking workforce. Separately, therefore, budgets, the
Intergenerational Review and other policies should be revisited so forecasts and program design can
be based on actual trends, not first-round thinking.
AI and the new technology wave
Turning to the AI revolution – I use that word intentionally. The scope and capability of this new general-
purpose technology have expanded enormously, with a pace that defies belief. Anything

you thought about this technology based on what you knew six months ago is obsolete. There is a lot
we do not know about how this will play out. Still, we can think through some implications, again
beyond the first round of responses.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women
I see three opportunities from the AI revolution that might specifically benefit women. Firstly, with
everything being so new and moving so quickly that almost nobody knows anything, it is easier to step

into a field, or back into the workforce after a pause. Seismic breaks in the landscape of work mean
past career breaks in a CV should be less of a disadvantage.
Secondly, AI might weaken the hold of what Harvard economics professor Claudia Goldin termed
“greedy jobs”, those where long, continual hours are expected and frenetic pace early on
builds experience and skills that allow career progression later. If agents can instead carry the context
and assist with some tasks, “always on” continuity becomes less of an imperative. The jobs may

become greedier of cognitive skills and the ability to orchestrate all those agents. Relative to careers
that demand sheer “presence” and long, frenetic hours early in your career, though, this
should help level the playing field between the two sexes, provided institutional norms also change. (I
recognise this is a critical assumption.)
Thirdly, granted there is still much uncertainty and debate about which jobs will remain in demand and
which will be less prevalent as this technology percolates. There is, however, good reason to believe

that those least prone to full automation include those in-person, so-called ‘caring’ occupations that
have provided so many job opportunities for women.
I note also that Australia is well-placed more broadly to take advantage of this new technology.
Contrary to the stereotype of Australia being mostly about resources and financial services, this country
has a burgeoning software industry that is already taking advantage of the newest tools. Coming

from almost nothing a decade ago, Australia now boasts a software licensing export industry that
brought in $9½ billion of export revenue in 2025. For perspective, this is bigger than aluminium
or copper, and almost as big as last year’s wheat exports.
I would also note that concerns about unequal returns to the AI boom are less relevant in Australia.
Even if all the profits accrue to a few tech firms – a debatable proposition – almost all Australians will

have exposure to this upside through their superannuation funds.
How the federal budget might support this


===== Page 113 =====

Of course, there was no government program or special initiative to create a software export industry.
And this points to what the budget, and government, can and should do in this space – don’t get in the
way of the good bits or think that it is the government’s role to lead and guide in every realm of
endeavour.
There are of course privacy, child protection and national security angles to AI
tools that warrant intervention and an appropriate regulatory framework. Just don’t get in the way of

allowing women to lean into this future.
I note reports of government concern that AI might fuel work intensification, which would be creating
“greedy jobs” by other means. Before rushing to regulate in this sphere, though, we should check
that intensification is a material issue. There is reason to think the opposite might end up being true. As
agents become more reliable partners to hand off work to, human cognitive contribution becomes both
more important and less time-bound. Just as the assumption that population ageing would shrink the

workforce turned out to be wrong, so might the idea that AI necessarily intensifies work beyond an
initial period of experimentation.
Growing perception that people expect more of government
The third big trend I want to address today might or might not be real, but it is certainly a
growing perception in policy circles: that people expect more of government nowadays, and that
governments should therefore deliver on those expectations. We see a rising call for government

support in more circumstances. The rapid growth in scope and cost of the
NDIS is the canonical example in a traditional area for government involvement. Expanding industry
policy shows how the scope of policy can broaden as well as deepen.
Regulation and governance now touch an increasing set of activities, and the nature of that
regulation is expanding. Whether it is the number of agencies firms need to seek approval from to build
something, or the number of pages in the Income Tax Assessment Act (just one of current 12 volumes

has a similar page count to the 1997 version), I am reminded of that well-known feminist
philosopher Avril Lavigne’s lyric, “why’d you have to go and make things so complicated?” The answer
is, of course, that there was always one more thing that someone with the best of intent thought should
be added.
The consequences of this belief about public expectations are evident in the rising share of household
income being paid in income tax, rising regulatory footprint, and, as with some of the public programs I

have already mentioned, a rising life admin burden that falls disproportionately on women.
I also worry that decisions to intervene shape decisions in ways that harm future resilience. If
every adverse event is met with a government intervention to cushion the blow, a kind of “learned
helplessness” can emerge, for firms and industries as well as individuals.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women


===== Page 114 =====

The consequences of this belief are not all bad, though. An area where the footprint of government has
expanded to the benefit of women has been greater scope of crisis payments, especially for women
and children escaping domestic and family violence. To the extent that this means more women can
escape violence in the first place, it is surely a good outcome.
In addition, as I noted earlier, the expansion of the “care economy” and the regulatory footprint more

broadly has been positive for women’s employment. Especially in a relatively sex-
segregated occupational job market like Australia’s, health, education and social care roles
are disproportionately female-coded. Using the industry of a person’s main job to categorise, women
and girls make up 48% of total employment, but more than 70% of employment in health,
social care and their sub-industries. Public administration and financial services also have above-

average female employment shares.
How the federal budget might address this
Still, it would be good if these benefits could be reaped without all the admin, the complexity and the
cost of our current system. If there is one thing I would hope for from this and future budgets, it is to
take Ms Lavigne’s words to heart and make things less complicated.
Every intervention deserves scrutiny on this front. Without advocating specific changes, I instead

offer the principle that governments should hesitate and ideally refrain from policies and programs
where the answer to any of the following questions is “yes”.
On the last of these, the axiom I have in mind is “if it is safe enough for Europeans, it should be safe
enough for Australians”. There are some exceptions, such as the need to build differently in a bushfire-
prone continent. But from car booster seats to bike helmet laws for adults, Australia has shown a

consistent tendency to go further on perceived safety than its European
counterparts. Similarly, if evidence reviews by the health authorities of enough peer
European nations show that a particular medical intervention is ineffective, we do not need to redo the
analysis on smaller Australian datasets to stop performing and funding that intervention here.
Conclusion
To sum up, it is an uncertain world, though nobody ever says things are less uncertain than usual. All

the more reason to keep sight of the big trends that will shape our futures even when current volatility
is past. The good news is that these trends present opportunities for Australian
women, but only if we ensure that other priorities – real or perceived – do not prevent us
from making use of these opportunities. Thank you.
Does the intervention take away choice?
Does the intervention promote learned helplessness?
Has the support been overcomplicated?

Does the intervention involve re-litigation of a safety standard or an evidence base that has already
been established elsewhere?


===== Page 115 =====

Related articles
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Australia and NZ Weekly 18 May 2026
May 18 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &9 more


===== Page 116 =====

Australia and NZ Weekly 18 May 2026
May 15 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &9 more
#australia


===== Page 117 =====

Australia and NZ Weekly 11 May 2026
May 11 2026 • 10 mins
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &9 more
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics


===== Page 118 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.


===== Page 119 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.


===== Page 120 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.


===== Page 121 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and


===== Page 122 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.


===== Page 123 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%


===== Page 124 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au


===== Page 125 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au


===== Page 126 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf
