# 008_DBS_(Economics)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

ss

Radhika Rao 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee - violetleeyh@dbs.com

Global oil benchmarks whipsawed sharply this 
week, book-ended by an initial rally in Brent 
crude to ~$120bbl before correcting sharply 
below $90bbl (see chart). Pullback was driven 
by indications from the US administration that 
the conflict in Iran might end soon, and that 
efforts are underway to step up oil supplies 
through waiver of selected sanctions, plans to 
dip into emergency stockpiles, and navy 
support for vessels through the Strait of 
Hormuz, amongst others. At the time of writing 
there was lack of clarity on the direction 
ahead, amidst mixed messages on the 
duration and intensity of the conflict.

DBS Group Research                                                                                                                  March 11, 2026

30 
Economics 
DBS Flash 
India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict 
Economics/Growth

• Oil prices have soared in recent weeks

• We see three channels of impact for 
India – risk sentiment, energy  pricing, 
and economic activity.

• VIX is off highs but  still elevated by 
historical comparisons.

• Along with crude oil, energy dependency 
extends to natural gas and LPG supplies 
from the region.

• We present scenarios on the economic 
impact, with the severity of the fallout to 
be dictated by duration of the conflict.

• Implications for markets: We expect 
weak risk uptake to weigh on the rupee.

• RBI will prefer to stay on a prolonged 
pause.

•


===== Page 2 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 2

Degrees of impact from the ongoing conflict

We covered the impact on the economy from 
the current geopolitical risks here, here and 
here. There are three channels of impact for 
India – risk sentiment, energy pricing, and 
economic activity, from a prolonged war in the 
Middle East, with the intensity of fallout to be 
guided by the duration of the conflict and 
extent of resultant supply shocks.

Risk sentiments

India’s VIX gauge remains at elevated levels, 
even if off highs (see chart), underscoring weak 
underlying risk sentiments. Domestic f inancial 
markets, including equity price action , bonds 
and rupee have f elt the heat from the o ngoing 
hostilities in the Middle East region. The 
currency had depreciated to a fresh low against 
the dollar, besides a tentative stabilisation in 
the benchmark equity indices after a sharp sell-
off. After a reprieve in February, foreign flows 
have reversed out in March in midst of fr esh 
geopolitical tensions (see chart).

To cap yields, the RBI conducted debt purchases 
via open market operations (OMO) worth INR 
500bn on 9-Mar helping to stabilise the bond 
markets and has scheduled another INR500bn 
for 12-Mar, ahead of heavy seasonal advance 
tax as well as GST related outflows due in the 
coming weeks. This infusion will also ease the 
drain from strong FX intervention and maturing 
FX forwards. Authorities have also been active 
participants in the secondary markets in 
February, pre -dating the conflict,  to rein in 
yields. The cumulative and sizeable scale of 
purchases have amounted to nearly three -
fourth of net borrowings for the year. In midst 
of broader risk dislocations, markets had begun 
to price in tighter interest rate conditions in the 
year ahead, though are likely to correct in the 
near-term.

We expect the central bank to stay on a 
prolonged pause on policy rates, while 
undertaking specific steps to ease market 
tensions. Outside of the geopolitical tensions, 
we continue to expect the rupee to 
underperform the regional pack, even as the 
broader dollar might stabilise.


===== Page 3 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 3

Energy pricing

For a start, India’s direct trade with Iran (led by 
food, pharma, animal feed exports  and 
petroleum product imports) has diminished in 
the past five years owing to the long -standing 
US sanctions (see chart).

Amongst key investment commitments, India 
was a major partner in the development and 
operation of the Chabahar Port on Iran’s 
southeastern coast, particularly to operate the 
Shahid Beheshti Terminal . While this 
investment is more strategic by nature rather 
than commercial, the exposure has faced the 
strain of sanctions by the West.

Trade linkages to the broader Middle East 
region remains more significant and 
important. Total trade with the GCC countries 
remains material (~15% of total trade) led by 
energy, machinery, gems & jewellery etc .  A 
tenth of overseas Indians live in the UAE; ~38% 
of remittances. Add to this, Indians make up a 
big chunk of merchant shipping crew.

Escalation in the Middle East tensions will pose 
supply risks to the broader hydrocarbon trade 
for the country, including exposure to crude 
oil, LNG and LPG markets. India is the third 
largest oil consumer globally, with a heavy 
reliance on crude imports. The country imports 
more than 85% of crude oil supplies, of which 
more than 55 -57% is from the Middle East 
countries (see chart) . Around h alf of crude 
supplies, which amounts to 2.5 -2.7mn/ day , 
travels through the Strait of Hormuz, largely 
from Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Kuwait.


===== Page 4 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 4

Additionally, more than 50% of the LNG is 
imported (see chart), two-third of which comes 
from the Middle east, key amongst which are 
supplies from Qatar. Notably, India is the 
world's fourth -largest buyer of LNG , with the 
current share of gas in the overall energy mix at 
a modest 6.2% (plan to increase to 15% within 
this decade).

Lastly, two -third of LPG requirements are 
imported, which are in turn predominantly 
utilised by retail consumers (primarily cooking). 
With bulk of these resources passing by the 
Strait of Hormuz, indications that the vessel 
movements have grind to a near h alt will 
intensify worries over the extent of stockpiles 
and backup inventories (LNG is most difficult to 
store).

On the heels of the price volatility and looming 
supply shortages, measures are underway  
domestically to balance the available stock , 
including prioritising household gas use while 
industrial consumers face potential delays/ 
disruptions. Several gas-related industries have 
also recently announced force majeure, 
especially those heavily reliant on imported gas 
volumes, including for ins tance petrochemical 
companies and refineries.  Shortage in LPG 
supplies will largely impact retail consumers, 
with signs that the government has 20 -25 days 
of inventory. India’s emergency strategic 
petroleum reserves, managed by the state-run 
ISPRL, currently stands at ~ 30mn tonnes, 
according to officials cited by reports, with the


===== Page 5 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 5

storage is around 75-80% filled. Meanwhile, the 
government has reportedly no plans to join the 
International Energy Agency (IEA) initiative to 
release strategic oil reserves.  To backstop 
supplies, the US had reportedly  provided a 30 -
day waiver to India refiners to receive cargoes 
from Russia, of which oil is in afloat vessels. 
Indian authorities have, meanwhile, begun to 
seek alternate suppliers, for instance from Asia 
and Africa.

Economic/ macro channel – scenario analysis

The persistence and sustainability of high oil 
prices will play a key role in shaping the scale of 
the economic impact on countries. Earlier, oil 
markets had downplayed these risks, but they 
have now intensified as reports surface about 
infrastructure damage and delays in production 
in the Middle East.

Baseline forecasts for FY27 : Outside of the 
geopolitical developments, positive high 
frequency indicators, revised GDP numbers and 
the court ruling on tariffs which had lowered 
the effective tariff on India prompt ed us to 
revise up FY27 real GDP growth to 7% (from 
6.5% earlier). CPI inflation stands at 4% and 
current account deficit is expected to widen 
from an estimated -1.0% of GDP to -1.3% of GDP 
in FY27, factoring in moderation in service trade 
receipts. Encouragingly, the economy’s oil 
intensity has reduced from the past, as signaled 
by the moderation in the net oil imports. As it 
stands, net oil imports stood at $123bn ( ~3.1% 
of GDP) in FY25.

Sensitivities: As a start, crude oil prices at $80 -
$85bbl will be manageable, while the economic 
impact will be most acute if prices average 
north of $100bbl for the coming months. 
Baseline assumption in the RBI’s monetary 
policy report in Oct25 stood at $70bbl in second 
half of FY26, as g lobal crude oil prices had 
exhibited a declining trend easing from $77bbl 
in early -Apr25 to $68bbl in Sep25. Official 
estimates are that a 10% increase in crude oil 
prices vs the baseline, and assuming full pass -
through to  domestic product prices, CPI 
inflation could turn out to be higher by ~30 bps 
and growth may be lower by around 15 bps. Fo 
the CAD, a $10bl increase could push by the 
shortfall by 0.35% of GDP.

Scenario analysis
Oil price US$80/bbl US$90/bbl US$100/bbl
GDP (change, ppt) -0.15 -0.25 -0.40
CPI (change, % ppt) +0.25 +0.35 +0.5
Current account/GDP 
(change, % ppt) -0.35 -0.50 -0.60
Source: RBI, press, DBS; estimates vs FY27 baseline assumptions


===== Page 6 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 6

The extent of impact on inflation will be 
dictated by who picks the incremental cost 
burden. India had undertaken measures to 
reform its fuel sector by deregulating petrol and 
diesel prices, allowing them to align with 
market rates to reduce fiscal deficits and losses 
of the upstream oil marketing companies. This 
helped to lower the fiscal burden on the 
government’s books, with total subsidies 
accounting to 1.2 -1.3% of GDP, of which 
petroleum is almost negligible at l ess than 3% 
of the total. However, in th e event of a sharp 
rise in global fuel prices, authorities are likely to 
be cautious about fully passing on higher costs 
to consumers. The need to protect household 
purchasing power and support businesses as 
well as a packed state election calendar in 1H26 
may prompt a more measured approach to 
retail fuel price adjustments, with the initial rise 
likely to be absorbed by the oil marketing 
companies (could lower dividend contribution). 
As an alternate to raising retail prices, excise 
duty cuts might be consi dered (for instance 
INR3/l reduction will amount to ~0.1% of GDP).

BOP dynamics : As highlighted above, the 
current account balance is likely to face a wider 
energy bill, pushing up the goods import bill. 
Concurrently, with the region making up ~40% 
of total remittances, inflows under this segment 
faces a second order impact  if the conflict 
prolongs. As it stands, prior to the geopolitical 
tensions, financing flows for the current 
account gap were a bigger concern than the 
scale of the trade balance shortfall, with this 
likely to remain as a key flashpoint. A 
concurrent red uction in portfolio flows, 
narrowing net FDI and offshore borrowings 
crimped by a rise in costs/ hedging costs could 
keep the overall BOP in red in FY27.

Conclusion

Geopolitical developments are fluid at this 
juncture, with the economic impact on India to 
be dictated by how the long the conflict lasts 
and which countries in the Middle East are 
engulfed in these hostilities. A lift in Strait of 
Hormuz blockages might h elp to restore 
supplies but with a significant lag time.


===== Page 7 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 7


===== Page 8 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .


===== Page 9 =====

ss

Chua Han Teng, CFA 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

Geopolitical risks have intensified significantly 
in March amid the ongoing escalation of Middle 
East tensions sparked by US -Israeli military 
strikes on Iran. Global oil and gas prices have 
surged on the back of the Iran-centred conflict, 
which is already disrupt ing energy shipments 
through the Straits of Hormuz  - the world’s 
most critical energy chokepoint , with ~20% of 
global oil and gas flows transiting through it.  
Singapore will be negatively impacted from 
the wider Middle East disruption. W e assess 
the impact to be felt more through the 
inflation channel, given Singapore’s position as 
a price taker that is highly dependent on 
energy imports.  Nonetheless, the economy is 
confronting this uncertainty from a relatively 
strong position, amid solid growth momentum 
buoyed by global artificial intelligence -related 
tailwinds, still-low inflation , healthy external 
metrics, and ample policy space in early 2026.

DBS Group Research                           March 10, 2026 
30 
Economics & Strategy 
DBS Flash 
Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation 
Economics/GDP/Inflation

• Singapore’s economy is confronting the 
Middle East uncertainty from a 
relatively strong position.

• It is exposed to the global energy shock 
due to its status as a price taker and its 
high import dependency, although risks 
are partly mitigated by diversified 
supply.

• Direct goods exports exposure to the 
Middle East is limited.

• Oil price s remaining at ~USD100/bbl 
would likely lift inflation more than they 
would depress economic growth.

• Policy space  is ample to tackle this 
shock.


===== Page 10 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 2

Energy supply and trade exposure 
Singapore is exposed to the current global 
energy shock due to its high import 
dependency, although risks are partly 
mitigated by diversified supply. It relies heavily 
on natural gas for electricity generation, 
accounting for >90% of the energy mix , with 
costs tied to oil prices by commercial contracts.

Singapore’s liquified natural gas (LNG) import 
mix is well distributed . A lthough Qatar 
accounted for ~25% share in volume terms as of 
2024 (with some news sources citing >40% 
share in 2025) , other key supply sources 
included Australia, Mozambique, and the US . 
Pipeline natural gas supplies from Indonesia 
and Malaysia , which together accounted for 
43% of overall natural gas imports  in 202 5, 
provide an additional buffer. However, crude oil 
imports are more exposed to the Middle East, 
with ~50% in total coming from the UAE, Qatar, 
and Saudi Arabia in 2024, although the US was 
also another notable supplier.

Singapore’s direct goods exports exposure to 
the Middle East is limited, accounting for ~1.5% 
of the total in 2025 . This suggests that a 
demand shock in the Middle East is unlikely to 
place significant downside pressure on exports.


===== Page 11 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 3

Macroeconomic implications 
The global energy price shock  in an event  of a 
protracted Middle East conflict  would likely 
raise Singapore’s inflation  more than it would 
depress economic growth, in our view . If Brent 
crude oil price remains at around USD100/bbl  
for the rest of the year, we estimate that 
Singapore’s headline inflation could rise by 
around 1.5 percentage points (pp), while real 
GDP growth could be lower ed by 0.4 pp (see 
‘Macro Insights Weekly: Asia’s vulnerability to 
the Iran crisis’  for additional analysis for other 
Asian economies). 
Singapore’s consumers and export -oriented 
firms will have to brace for higher electricity, 
transport-fuel, and shipping costs arising from 
the increase in global energy prices and supply 
chain disruptions from the Middle East conflict. 
We estimate around 7+% of the overall CPI 
basket would likely be directly impacted by 
higher energy prices.  Manufacturers are 
already facing capacity and supply chain 
constraints, as reflected in the sharper 
contraction in the supplier deliveries sub -index 
of the February manufacturing purchasing 
managers’ index at 49.6 – the lowest in about 
two years since early 2024.  The escalation in 
geopolitical tensions only heightens the risks of 
further disruptions that could dampen factory 
and trade growth.  
However, Singapore’s energy intensity per  unit 
of GDP has been declining over the years due to 
improvements in energy efficiency. Considering 
Singapore’s net oil and gas trade position, a 
potentially higher oil and gas import bill from 
the price spike could be offset by increased 
export revenues amid improved refining 
margins, even though the chemical sector faces 
disruptions.

Policy implications 
Singapore has ample policy space to tackle the 
external shock  from Middle East geopolitical 
uncertainty. On fiscal policy,  we think the 
government has significant room to deploy 
targeted cost-of-living support measures,  
should energy-driven inflation place meaningful 
pressures on households  over the coming 
months, consistent with its response in past 
high inflation periods in 2022 and 2023 . Fiscal 
space is supported by its healthy public 
finances, having budgeted an overall fiscal 
surplus of 1.0% of GDP in FY2026, distinguishing 
Singapore from more fiscally constrained 
ASEAN economies.  
On monetary policy, i mported price pressures 
should continue to be dampened by the 
ongoing appreciation of the Singapore dollar 
nominal effective exchange rate  (SGD NEER) , 
following the Monetary Authority of Singapore 
(MAS)’s decisions to maintain the policy band’s 
appreciation in January 2026, as well as October 
and July 202 5. However, t he recent spike in 
global energy prices is starting to complicate 
the MAS’s policy bias towards earlier 
tightening.


===== Page 12 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 4


===== Page 13 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 5

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability. 18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .

Sources: Data for all charts and tables are from CEIC, Bloomberg and DBS Group Research (forecasts and 
transformations)


===== Page 14 =====

Ma Tieying, CFA
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to Violet Lee 
+65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

The ongoing conflict involving Iran and the 
US/Israel has immediately impacted global 
energy markets and maritime trade. Roughly 
20–30% of the world’s crude oil and liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) passes through the Strait of 
Hormuz, and disruptions there have  reduced 
the flow of Middle Eastern oil and LNG. Markets 
have responded, pushing Brent crude and other 
benchmarks higher. Meanwhile, insurers have 
withdrawn war -risk coverage, and major 
carriers have suspended Gulf transits, creating 
vessel backlogs and hi gher freight costs. 
Alternative routes around Africa increase 
transit time and costs, although shipping and 
logistics are gradually adjusting to these 
challenges.

Energy exposure

Taiwan is highly exposed to  oil price shock s 
due to its energy structure . The island relies 
heavily on thermal power , which accounts for 
around 85% of electricity generation. Although 
renewable capacity has expanded in recent 
years, much of the increase has offset the 
phase-down of nuclear power rather than 
materially reducing fossil fuel dependence.

Nearly all thermal fuel inputs are imported . 
Net fuel imports accounted for around 4% of 
nominal GDP in 2025, among the highest ratios 
in Asia, leaving the economy sensitive to 
sustained increases in global energy prices and 
shipping costs. 
Group Research  
30 
March 5, 2026 
Economics & Strategy  
DBS Flash 
Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks 
Economics/growth/monetary 
• Taiwan is highly exposed to oil price 
shocks amid the Iran conflict , with heavy 
reliance on thermal power, almost entirely 
imported, and a large share of crude oil and 
LNG sourced from the Middle East.

• Direct export exposure to the Middle East 
is minimal, while structural technology 
trends continue to support Taiwan’s 
exports.

• An oil price shock would pressure 
Taiwan’s “Goldilocks” mix of strong growth 
and contained inflation, but is far from 
causing stagflation.

• The central bank retains monetary policy 
flexibility.

• Forecast implications:  We maintain our 
2026 GDP growth forecast of 7.0%, while 
seeing upside risks to our inflation forecast 
of 1.5%.


===== Page 15 =====

Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks                                                                                            March 5, 2026

Page 2

Taiwan sources roughly 70% of its crude oil 
from the Middle East —particularly Saudi 
Arabia, Kuwait, and the UAE —and about 30% 
of its LNG from Qatar . A prolonged disruption 
in Hormuz would tighten supply and raise costs, 
although strategic reserves and diversified 
suppliers reduce the risk of severe shortages.

Higher input costs would raise electricity tariffs 
and production costs, particularly for energy -
intensive sectors such as petrochemicals, steel, 
and semiconductor fabrication. Households 
would face higher energy bills, although 
government subsidies and ongoing wage 
growth should help cushion the impact.

Trade exposure

Taiwan’s direct export exposure to the Middle 
East is minimal, accounting for less than 1% of 
total exports in 2025. Europe accounts for 
around 6%, suggesting that shipping disruptions 
in the Red Sea or Suez Canal would have only a 
limited first-round impact on trade volumes. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Coal Oil Natural gas
Hydro Nuclear Renewable
Taiwan: Electricity supply 
Sources: CEIC, DBS
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
CN HK IN ID JP SG SK TW
%
Asia: Net fuel imports/nominal GDP (2025)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Saudi 
Arabia, 
28.9
Kuwait, 
13.6
US, 28.3
Oman, 7.9
Iraq, 1.3 UAE, 11.9
Qatar, 6.0 Others, 
2.1
Taiwan: Crude oil imports by source (2025)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Qatar, 
33.7
Indonesia, 
2.0Papua 
New 
Guinea, 
7.9Brunei, 2.8
Australia, 
33.5
Russia, 
1.8
US, 9.9 Others, 
8.5
Taiwan: LNG imports by source (2025)
Sources: CEIC, DBS


===== Page 16 =====

Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks                                                                                            March 5, 2026

Page 3

The larger risk comes from second -order 
effects of higher global energy costs . Elevated 
oil prices act as a tax on consumption, reducing 
household purchasing power in key markets 
such as the US and Europe. This could dampen 
demand for consumer electronics, PCs, and 
smartphones. However, structural technology 
trends continue to support Taiwan’s exports . 
AI-related investment, data centers, and 
industrial policy -driven growth provide a 
cushion, helping offset a slowdown in 
traditional electronics exports.

Macro implications

An oil price shock would weigh on Taiwan’s 
“Goldilocks” mix of strong growth and 
contained inflation, but it is far from triggering 
stagflation. If oil stabilizes around US$80/bbl, 
GDP growth could slow by roughly 0.3ppt, with 
CPI rising about 0.4ppt. If oil reaches 
US$100/bbl and remains at that level for the 
rest of the year, GDP growth could decline by 
about 0.9ppt, and inflation could rise aro und 
1.3ppt. These estimates exclude additional drag 
from weaker global demand, which could 
further affect exports and GDP.

The central bank retains flexibility . With a 
base-case GDP growth forecast of 7% and CPI at 
1.5%, the risk of inflation exceeding 2% may 
initially outweigh the risk of growth falling 
below potential (~3%), supporting a bias toward 
tightening. If external demand weakens and 
export momentum sl ows, policymakers can 
pivot toward easing to stabilize growth.

Market implications

Financial markets remain another channel of 
adjustment. Taiwan’s equity valuations are 
high, with total market capitalization of the 
TWSE exceeding 300% of nominal GDP. 
Heightened geopolitical risks may prompt 
global investors to reduce exposure to high -
beta markets. Still, strong corporate earnings 
and techn ology sector growth provide 
resilience, helping the market absorb shocks 
without destabilizing the broader economy.

Related reports:

Taiwan: Asia’s growth champion 
Taiwan: A historic trade deal 
Taiwan: Semiconductor tariffs come into effect 
Taiwan 2026 outlook: Betting on AI

0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Asia North America
Central America South America
Europe Middle East
Taiwan: Exports by market
Sources: CEIC, DBS


===== Page 17 =====

Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks                                                                                            March 5, 2026

Page 4


===== Page 18 =====

Page 5

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .


===== Page 19 =====

Chua Han Teng, CFA        
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

Group Research  
30 
  February 19, 2026 
Economics 
Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook 
Economics/Growth/Inflation/Monetary 
• Thai real GDP growth rose to 2.5% yoy in 4Q25 due to improved domestic demand . 
Nonetheless, full-year growth eased to 2.4% in 2025.  
• Private and government consumption w ere boosted by stimulus in 4Q25, but household 
spending will likely be constrained by income challenges and high debt in 2026.  
• Good exports, while strong, eased in 4Q25, and will face headwinds from the lagged impact 
of US tariffs in 2026. The recovery in foreign tourism will likely be gradual. 
• High likelihood of policy continuity after the Bhumjaithai Party’s decisive electoral victory.  
• We expect the dovish BOT to cut its policy rate by 25bps to 1.00% in 2026, but will likely hold 
in February to preserve policy space after the better-than-expected 4Q25 growth.  
• Forecast implications:  We maintain our 2026 forecasts for real GDP growth and headline 
inflation at 1.6% and 0.5%, respectively.


===== Page 20 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 2

Real GDP growth 
External demand growth in 4Q25 eased further 
for the third consecutive quarter . Goods 
exports, while strong, decelerated, and services 
exports remained in contraction.

Real GDP growth rose to 2.5% yoy in 4Q25, up 
from 1.2% yoy in 3Q . However, growth for full-
year 2025 eased to 2.4% . W e maintain our 
forecast for slower growth of 1.6% in 2026, 
given various challenges.

Overall growth  was boosted by improved 
domestic demand in 4Q25. Private consumption 
and government consumption were lifted by 
temporary stimulus support. Investment growth 
surged to the highest in 10 years.

The pick-up in economic expansion was driven 
by a rebound in the industrial and services 
sectors in 4Q25 . The agriculture sector was 
negatively impacted by weather disruptions.


===== Page 21 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 3

Goods exports 
Thai electronics exports have been supported 
by global artificial intelligence (AI) -related 
external tailwinds . While these tailwinds 
remain supportive, there are risks of excessive 
exuberance.

Regional goods exports performed well in 2025 
despite the US tariff roller coaster. However, 
strong Thai export growth eased over the course 
of 2025 . Thai shipments  will face headwinds 
from the lagged impact of US tariffs in 2026.

Thai goods exports benefitted from accelerating 
momentum to the US  in 2025 , but this trend 
looks unsustainable in 2026.

Sentiment among Thai industries more exposed 
to exports remain s cautious despite strong 
export growth, like ly due to the still -uncertain 
global trade policy landscape.


===== Page 22 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 4

Investment 
Quarterly investment growth in 4Q25 
accelerated to a 10 -year high, driven by both 
public and private sectors . We will have to 
watch if the strong momentum can be sustained 
in 2026.

Private investment was mainly supported by an 
increase in machinery and equipment at the end 
of 2025 . However, an uncertain domestic and 
external landscape could dampen i nvestor 
sentiment.

# Policies Description # Policies Description
1
Small & Low-Income 
Support (Small 
Business & Welfare 
Plus)
Support for small businesses and low-income 
households through reforms to the state welfare 
card, continued co-payment (Half-Price Plus) 
scheme, electricity subsidies (capped at 3 THB per 
unit for the first 200 units), government savings 
bonds and savings incentives, and fast debt 
consolidation to reduce financial burdens.
6 Green Economy Plus
Supporting environmentally friendly economic 
activity, clean energy (e.g., solar and EV sectors), a 
carbon market, and incentives for green businesses 
to promote sustainable growth.
2 Made in Thailand 
SMEs Plus
Strengthening Thai SMEs with capital injections, 
easier loan guarantees, improved market access, and 
support to help locally-made goods succeed 
domestically and abroad.
7 Digital & AI Plus
Expanding access to AI and digital tools to improve 
productivity, income opportunities, and new job 
creation.
3 Investment Plus
Boosting investment (targeting around 30 % of GDP 
within four years), including public-private co-
investment and incentives to attract both domestic 
and foreign investment, especially in future 
industries.
8 Equal Education 
Plus
Genuine free education with built-in pathways to 
employment — including online platforms, skills 
training, and job linkage programs.
4 Produce & Sell Plus
Enhancing production of the right goods and 
ensuring they meet consumer demand, along with 
support for local production tailored to market 
needs.
9 Senior Citizens Plus
Policies to enhance employment, income, care, and 
tax benefits for senior citizens (e.g., tax deductions 
for hiring seniors, incentives for elderly employment, 
community caregiver programs, and development of 
senior care centers).
5 Trade Plus
Promoting smart, high-value trade, upgrading the 
production base, and expanding Thai exports via 
mutually beneficial international partnerships.
10
Thailand Plus 
(Regulatory & 
Governance 
Reform)
Streamlining regulations, accelerating approvals, and 
creating a more investment-friendly environment to 
support a “new economy” and increase Thailand’s 
competitiveness.
The Bhumjaithai Party's Economy 10 Plus Policies
Source: News, DBS compilation
The Bhumjaithai Party looks likely to lead the new coalition government after  its decisive victory 
during the elections on 8 February. We see increased likelihood of political stability with a 
technocratic government to implement its proposed economic policies, but execution remains key.


===== Page 23 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 5

Tourism and Private consumption 
Consumer confidence recovered slightly in 
4Q25 due to government stimulus, but will 
likely be  cautious in early 2026 amid income 
challenges due to economic uncertainty.

Thailand’s foreign tourism is starting 2026 on a 
soft note , following the gradual increase in 
4Q25. The outlook is for a modest improvement 
in 2026, but a strong baht could pose 
competitiveness challenges.

The kingdom  faces challenges in attracting 
Chinese tourists , having been impacted by 
safety concerns, and is also losing them to 
regional destinations . The recovery in Chinese 
tourists will likely be gradual.

Private consumption was temporarily boosted 
by durable goods , notably vehicle sales . 
However, purchasing power remains fragile 
amid cautious consumer sentiment , and high 
household debt.


===== Page 24 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 6

Inflation and Monetary policy 
While we think the Bank of Thailand (BOT) will 
cut its policy interest rate again in 2026  to 
support growth , we see little urgency to  ease 
monetary policy in February after the stronger-
than-expected growth rebound in 4Q25.

Headline inflation remains negative for the 10 th 
consecutive month as of January 2026. This was 
due to supply -side factors, although demand -
pull pressures were also weak. We maintain our 
forecast of 0.5% for 2026.

Lower energy prices, including fuel and electric 
tariffs, are the key supply -side factor 
dampening headline inflation . Food prices face 
some upside pressure from weather disruptions. 
Core CPI is only edging up gradually.

Real policy interest rates in Thailand are not low, 
even as the BOT has eased monetary policy by 
125bps since October 2024. There is still room 
for rate cuts, although policy space is 
diminishing.


===== Page 25 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 7


===== Page 26 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, 
the “Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not 
make any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness 
for any particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for 
general circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, 
financial situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the 
information of addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution for the exercise of judgement by addressees, who 
should obtain separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals 
connected with the group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential,  incidental damages or any 
other loss or damages of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or 
misstatement herein, negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other 
person has been advised of the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a 
solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any 
investment advice or services. The Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have 
positions or other interests in, and may effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek 
to perform broking, investment banking an d other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information 
herein is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or 
located in any locality, state, country, or other jurisdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United 
States of America) where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The 
information is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not 
limited to the United States of America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability. 18th Floor, The Center, 
99 Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection 
regime does not a pply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before 
engaging in such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .     
Sources: Data for all charts and tables are from CEIC, Bloomberg and DBS Group Research (forecasts and 
transformations)


===== Page 27 =====

ss

Chua Han Teng, CFA 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

We view Budget 2026 as a strategic, forward -
looking plan that sharpens Singapore’s 
economic competitiveness and strengthens 
the social compact under the Forward 
Singapore agenda, underpinned by fiscal 
discipline. By laying out the policy toolkit to 
advance the long -term direction and 
recommendations in the Economic Strategy 
Review (ESR) Mid -term Update, it positions 
Singapore to b etter navigate an increasingly 
complex and fractured global landscape amid 
domestic constraints . At the same time, 
continued social support aims to strengthen 
inclusion. We highlight six key takeaways. 
1) Leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) 
AI, featured prominently within the seven 
recommendations of the ESR Mid-term Update, 
is a major focus in Budget 2026 . Key policies in 
the budget aim  to leverage technology to 
power Singapore’s next phase of economic 
growth. We believe  harnessing AI effectively 
across the economy will boost productivity – a 
crucial driver of competitiveness and growth 
over the next decade – as Singapore’s mature 
economy faces increasingly binding land and 
labour constraints. 
Co-ordinated efforts, including the formation of 
a National AI Council chaired by the Prime 
Minister, new national AI Missions across four 
strategic sectors, and the establishment of an AI 
park, aim to position Singapore strategically as 
a global AI leader, driving innovation while 
enabling effective and targeted deployment of 
AI at greater scale  and speed . A notable 
enhancement is expanding the Productivity 
 DBS Group Research                        February 13, 2026 
30 
Economics 
DBS Focus 
Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies 
Economics/GDP/Fiscal 
• Budget 2026 is pragmatic and forward -
looking, sharpening economic 
competitiveness and strengthening the 
social compact.

• Strategic plans to harness AI, spur 
internationalisation, and boost 
enterprise funding aligned with the 
Economic Strategy Review are 
encouraging.

• Social support  is reinforced with 
continued assurances and targeted aid.

• Fiscal discipline is reaffirmed with an 
overall surplus for the third consecutive 
year in FY2026.

• The government projects an overall 
fiscal surplus of SGD8.5bn (1.0% of GDP) 
in FY2026, compared to SGD15.1bn 
(1.9% of GDP) in FY2025.


===== Page 28 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 2

Solutions Grant (PSG) , which has been key in 
helping small and medium -sized enterprises 
(SMEs) implement digital and automation 
solutions to raise productivity over the years.  
Expanding the PSG to allow firms of any size to 
access AI -enabled tools will help to defray AI 
adoption costs and therefore incentivise 
enterprise-wide adoption, particularly among 
SMEs, which have lagged large corporates.

Building an AI-ready workforce will also be a key 
ingredient for broad-based AI utilisation across 
the economy . To encourage wide -spread 
learning, familiarity , and usage of AI, 
Singaporeans who undergo selected training 
courses will receive six months of free access to 
premium AI tools , supported by  a redesigned 
SkillsFuture website to help learners better 
identify suitable AI courses . The expansion of 
TechSkills Accelerator  for mid -career workers 
will gradually  diffuse AI capabilities into non -
tech sectors , starting with accountancy and 
legal professions before extending to other 
fields.

2) Spurring internationalisation and increasing 
capital availability 
Strengthening connectivity and aggressively 
supporting internationalisation is another key 
recommendation in the ESR Mid -term Update. 
Enhanced internationalisation schemes, such as 
the Market Readiness Assistance Grant and the 
Double Tax Deduction for Internationalisation 
scheme, will support the ambitions of 
Singapore enterprises , as they aim to expand 
into new overseas markets and diversify 
revenue streams for greater growth, as well as 
build resilience amid global uncertainty and a 
limited domestic market. This 
internationalisation momentum is evident, 
with around eight in 10 SMEs planning 
overseas expansion in 2026, according to a 
recent DBS Business Pulse Check survey. 
The ESR Mid -term Update also recommends 
sustaining a vibrant startup ecosystem  through 
increased enterprise capital availability. Various 
enhancements and top -ups to the Startup SG 
Equity Scheme  (SGD1.0bn), the Anchor Fund  
(SGD1.5bn), and the Financial  Sector 
Development Fund (FSDF) (SGD1.5bn) broaden 
access to funding from private to public 
markets, supporting companies’ growth 
ambitions. Boosting the Equity Market 
Development Programme (EQDP) via the FSDF 
will add impetus to the ongoing revival of the 
public equities market. 
3) Committed to green transition 
Budget 2026 reaffirms Singapore’s steadfast 
commitment to the green transition  and 
sustainability. The city continues to make 
progress towards its long -term target for net 
zero emissions by 2050.  The government is 
therefore raising the 2030 solar deployment 
target to 3 gigawatt-peak, after reaching the


===== Page 29 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 3

target of 2 g igawatt-peak well ahead of 
schedule. It also reiterated its goal of achieving 
100% cleaner energy vehicles by 2040 . The 
extension of the Energy Efficiency Grant and 
green loans support under the Enterprise 
Financing Scheme will provide business es with 
key financial support to adopt green solutions.  
Singapore will press on with increasing the 
carbon tax to spur decarbonisation  from the 
current SGD45/tonne. Yet, Budget 2026 signals 
that the carbon tax may be positioned at the 
lower end of its projected SGD50 -80/tonne 
range by 2030, giving businesses greater clarity 
for planning future carbon costs. 
4) Alleviating business cashflows and costs 
With economic resilience still possibly  likely to 
be tested this year amid external uncertainty , 
the government will provide a slightly reduced 
corporate income tax rebate , which we expect  
to continue supporting firms’ cashflow needs.  
Companies are also likely to be prudent on cost 
management, particularly manpower -related 
expenses. In this regard, 
enhancements/extensions to various schemes, 
such as  the Progressive Wage Credit Scheme , 
the Senior Employment Credit , and the CPF 
Transition Offset, will help shoulder wage costs, 
amid efforts to uplift lower-wage workers and 
encourage the continued employment of senior 
workers. 
5) Strengthen social compact 
Government efforts to strengthen the social 
compact by mitigating inequality and 
strengthening inclusion are evident in the 
budget policies . Key initiatives include raising 
the Local Qualifying Salary to uplift the incomes 
of lower-wage workers, increasing the monthly 
household income threshold for pre-school 
education subsidies, and  enhancing the 
ComLink+ Progress Packages for families. The 
latest round of targeted assistance, including 
cash payments, U -Save rebates, and CDC 
vouchers, builds on earlier support frameworks 
and provides timely cushion and relief to 
households facing ongoing cost pressures. 
6) Strong fiscal position 
Budget 2026, the first fiscal plan of the new 
term of government, strikes a balance 
between calibrated, targeted policy support 
and fiscal discipline.  The government’s 
budgeted overall fiscal surplus of SGD8.5bn 
(1.0% of GDP) for FY2026 marks the third 
consecutive year of surplus, extending the 
positive public financial performance of recent 
years, even amid increased focus on various 
spending priorities . The fiscal impulse is 
assessed to be mildly expansionary in FY2026.

Based on outcomes from FY2021 to FY2024 and 
higher revised surplus of SGD15.1bn for 
FY2025, we estimate that the government is 
poised to cumulatively accumulate a strong 
overall positive fiscal position of SGD22.3bn 
over its previous term. This reflects Singapore’s 
robust and resilient economic performance 
despite global turbulence.


===== Page 30 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 4

Healthy public finances and fiscal strength 
remain a key competitive advantage, 
providing the crucial policy space to deliver 
bold, strategic plans to navigate the significant 
shifts in an increasingly complex global 
environment. 
As a share of GDP, t otal revenues (comprising 
operating revenue and Net Investment Returns 
Contribution, NIRC) will remain strong , and 
continue outstrip ping total spending 
(comprising total expenditure and special 
transfers) of 18.9% , despite falling slightly  to 
19.4% in FY2026  from 19.7% in FY2025. 
Corporate income tax revenues will remain the 
largest revenue contributor, sustaining at 
above 4% of GDP for the fourth consecutive 
fiscal year . The government expects higher 
corporate tax collections in FY2027 with the 
implementation of the Top-up Tax under Pillar 
Two of BEPS . Total revenues will also be 
bolstered by the NIRC at a stable 3.4% of GDP.

However, the government’s spending needs 
will rise over time to meet top priorities in areas 
such as defence, healthcare, education, and the 
economy. Amid an unstable world due to rising 
geopolitical uncertainty, Singapore will increase 
its defence spending to 3.0% of GDP in FY2026. 
It expects security -related expenditures to rise 
in the coming years to keep Singapore safe and 
secure, and is prepared to allocate more if 
needed. Healthcare spending will rise to 2.7% of 
GDP in FY2026 from around 2.4-2.5% of GDP in 
the preceding four years, and is also poised to 
face upward pressures as Singapore tackles 
demographic challenges from a rapidly aging 
population.

Special transfers  will decline for the third 
consecutive year to 2.6% of GDP in FY2026, but 
the government continues to make strategic 
top-ups and investments to support long -term 
economic strategies and priorities . These 
include additional allocations to the Changi 
Airport Development Fund  (SGD6bn) to boost 
air connectivity, as well as the National 
Productivity Fund  (SGD6bn) and National 
Research Fund (SGD5bn) to drive research and 
development as well as innovation.


===== Page 31 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 5

Singapore's overall fiscal position
Actual Budgeted
FY2024 FY2026
SGD bn SGD bn SGD bn SGD bn % change
Operating revenue 115.5 130.9 134.8 3.9 3.0
Less:
Total expenditure 112.3 124.5 137.3 12.9 10.3
Operating expenditure 88.9 97.5 103.3 5.8 6.0
Developmental expenditure 23.4 27.0 34.0 7.1 26.1
Primary surplus/deficit 3.2 6.4 -2.6
Less:
Special transfers 25.0 23.4 21.7 -1.6 -7.0
Special transfers excluding top-ups to 
endownment and trust funds 3.0 3.8 2.8
Basic surplus/deficit 0.3 2.6 -5.4
Top-ups to endownment & trust 22.1 19.6 18.9
Add:
Net investment returns contribution 24.1 27.5 28.5 0.9 3.4
Overall budget surplus/deficit 2.3 10.6 4.2
Add:
Capitalisation of nationally significant 
infrastructure 4.2 5.0 5.0
Less:
SINGA interest costs & loan expenses 0.4 0.5 0.7
Overall fiscal position 6.1 15.1 8.5
Overall balance as % of GDP 0.8 1.9 1.0
Source: MOF
Revised 
FY2025
Change over
Revised FY2025


===== Page 32 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 6

# Recommendations Details
1 Extend our lead and establish global 
leadership in key growth sectors
• Harness Al, automation and sustainable technologies to 
transform advanced manufacturing
• Tap on our reputation to grow a trust industry
• Capture higher-value jobs and new opportunities for 
Singaporeans
2
Boldly pursue emerging opportunities to 
create new engines that can push the 
growth frontier of our economy
• Invest in areas such as quantum and space tech
• Attract and nurture globally-leading enterprises
• Sustain a vibrant start-up ecosystem and entrepreneurial 
culture, with more support for high-potential start-ups
3 Establish Singapore as an AI leader with an 
AI-empowered economy
• Position Singapore as a place to develop, test, deploy and 
scale impactful Al solutions
• Drive Al adoption across the economy to lift productivity
• Support firms and SMEs to transform and benefit from Al
4
Strengthen connectivity and linkages to 
global markets, and more aggressively 
support firms to internationalise
• Invest in transport hubs and networks for new supply chain 
opportunities
• Strengthen trade cooperation
• Help firms venture overseas and bring value back to 
Singapore through higher-value jobs and additional revenue 
5 Broaden the range of good jobs in our 
economy
• Uplift and transform jobs in sectors that can better 
withstand global shifts 
• Including jobs in skilled trades and care and social services
• Nurture a new generation of founders to build the next 
wave of enterprises and jobs
6
Make lifelong learning a practical reality 
and empower every worker to take charge 
of their career
• Make lifelong learning a practical reality by blending training 
with work
• Build Al literacy across the workforce 
• Strengthen career transition support via better career 
guidance, job matching and placement services
7 Enable our businesses to proactively 
navigate transitions
• Help firms better understand and shift to more viable 
opportunities as the economy restructures
• Review tools and resources available to business leaders
Economic Strategy Review (ESR) Mid-term Update
Source: Singapore government


===== Page 33 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 7


===== Page 34 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability. 18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .

Sources: Data for all charts and tables are from CEIC, Bloomberg and DBS Group Research (forecasts and 
transformations)


# 009_DBS_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

CN
JP
IN
SK
ID
TW
SG
TH
VN
MYPH
HK
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
0 20,000 40,000 60,000 80,000 100,000 120,000
Asia: Nominal GDP, per capita GDP, and real GDP growth (2026F)
Sources: CEIC, IMF, DBS
Real GDP growth, % YoY
Per capita GDP, USD
Bubble size:
Nominal GDP, USD
Ma Tieying, CFA
Senior Economist
Please direct distribution queries to
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com
ECONOMICS & STRATEGY
TAIWAN CHARTBOOK:
THE AI TRILLION-DOLLAR LEAP
12 May 2026

https://www.dbs.com/insightsdirect/macro/home
groupresc@dbs.com
• Thanks to the AI supercycle, Taiwan is delivering remarkable economic and market
performance while gaining strategic importance in global supply chains
• Nominal GDP is set to enter the USD1tn club this year
• Real GDP growth is on track to approach 10%, making Taiwan Asia- 12’s fastest-
growing economy
• Per capita GDP is projected to reach US D45k, ranking Taiwan as Asia -12’s third-

richest economy
• The TAIEX has recently emerged as the world’s sixth-largest stock market
• For Singapore, Taiwan has overtaken China to become our largest trading partner
• Hidden challenges include K-shaped growth and widening wealth inequality
• Risks of stock market overheating, inflation, and monetary tightening are also drawing
close attention


===== Page 2 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap May 12, 2026
2
The AI-driven export boom has sharply
boosted Taiwan’s growth performance.
Real GDP growth accelerated further to
13.7% YoY in 1Q from 12.7% in 4Q25,
marking the strongest quarterly expansion
since 1987.
P
er capital GDP is projected to reach
around USD45,000 in 2026, further
widening the income gap with Japan and
South Korea and reinforcing Taiwan’s
position as Asia-12’s third-richest
economy.

Ful
l-year 2026 GDP growth is on track to
approach 10% (DBSF: 9.4%), allowing
Taiwan to outperform India and Vietnam
for a second consecutive year as Asia-
12’s fastest-growing economy.
No
minal GDP is on track to surpass the
USD1tn mark in 2026, bringing Taiwan
into the USD1tn club alongside China,
Japan, India, South Korea, and Indonesia.
13.7
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
1Q85 1Q90 1Q95 1Q00 1Q05 1Q10 1Q15 1Q20 1Q25
% YoY
Taiwan: Real GDP growth
Sources: CEIC, DBS

108
60
45
37 36
15 15
8 5 5 4 3
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
SG HK TW SK JP MY CN TH ID VN PH IN
USD'000
Asia: Per capita GDP (2026F)
Sources: CEIC, IMF, DBS
9.4
6.5 6.5
5.1 4.7 4.7 4.5
3 2.8 2.6
1.6
0.5
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
TW IN VN ID MY PH CN HK SG SK TH JP
% YoY
Asia: Real GDP growth (2026F)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
20.9
4.4 4.2
1.9 1.5 1.0 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
0
5
10
15
20
25
CN JP IN SK ID TW SG TH VN MY PH HK
USDtn
Asia: Nominal GDP (2026F)
Sources: CEIC, IMF, DBS

GDP


===== Page 3 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
3

AI-driven export performance remains 
strong, although momentum may be 
starting to peak. Export growth moderated 
to 39.0% YoY in April, while real exports 
(excluding price effects) slowed more 
noticeably to 21.0%.

The evolving AI supply chain has shifted 
Taiwan’s import structure toward South 
Korea, particularly for HBM-related 
semiconductor supply. South Korea has 
become Taiwan’s second-largest import 
source since 2025, accounting for 13.2% 
of imports.

AI demand is increasingly redirecting 
Taiwan’s exports toward the US market. 
Since 2025, the US has overtaken China 
as Taiwan’s largest export destination, 
accounting for 31% of total exports.

The rise of AI is also elevating the 
strategic importance of Taiwan’s supply 
chain globally. On a single-country basis, 
Taiwan has overtaken China to become 
Singapore’s largest trading partner since 
2025, driven by a sharp increase in 
Singapore’s electronics imports from 
Taiwan.

-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Nominal
Real
Taiwan: Export growth
% YoY
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2010 2015 2020 2025China (incl.HK) ASEAN-6
JP, KR, IN, rest of Asia Europe
Middle East North America
Central & South America ROW
Taiwan: Imports by source
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2010 2015 2020 2025China (incl. HK) ASEAN-6
JP, KR, IN, rest of Asia Europe
Middle East North America
Central & South America ROW
Taiwan: Exports by destination
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
TW CN MY US HK ID SK JP TH VN
Exports
Imports
USDbn
Singapore: Top 10 trading partners 
(2025)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
EXTERNAL TRADE


===== Page 4 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
4

Investment indicators showed signs of 
peaking. Capital goods imports 
decelerated as capex by leading 
semiconductor firms moved past its peak, 
while building permits remained in 
negative territory amid continued 
weakness in the property market.

FDI sources remained broadly stable, with 
Europe continuing to be Taiwan’s largest 
source of inward investment, accounting 
for a 56% share in 2025.

FDI and ODI activity stayed buoyant. 
Approved FDI and ODI both surged by 
more than 100% YoY cumulatively in the 
first three months of this year, reaching 
USD6.1bn and USD32.8bn, respectively.

ODI destinations continued to shift away 
from China toward the America, with North 
America and Central & South America 
together accounting for 68% of Taiwan’s 
outbound investment flows in 2025.

-50
-25
0
25
50
75
100
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Capital goods imports
Building permits granted for
construction
Taiwan: Investment indicators
% YoY, 3MMA
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2010 2015 2020 2025
China (incl.HK) ASEAN-5
JP, KR, IN, rest of Asia Europe
North America Central & South America
ROW
Taiwan: Approved FDI by source
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26
FDI
ODI
USDbn, YTD
Taiwan: Approved FDI and ODI
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2010 2015 2020 2025
China (incl. HK) ASEAN-6
JP, KR, IN, rest of Asia Europe
North America Central & South America
ROW
Taiwan: Approved ODI by destination
Sources: CEIC, DBS
INVESTMENT


===== Page 5 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
5

Consumption rebounded on the back of 
stimulus measures. Retail sales returned 
to positive growth from 4Q25 following the 
rollout of the cash handout programme.

Wage growth softened slightly and is likely 
to face further erosion from rising inflation 
ahead. Average regular earnings slowed 
to 2.6% YoY in March, slipping below the 
3% mark, while inflation-adjusted real 
wage growth eased to around 1%.

Labor market conditions remained broadly 
stable, although structural unemployment 
persisted. The unemployment rate held 
steady at 3.4% as of March, while youth 
unemployment among those aged 15-24 
remained elevated at 11.4%.

The AI-driven manufacturing boom has 
not generated significant employment 
gains due to the capital- and technology-
intensive nature of the sector. 
Employment growth continued to be 
driven mainly by the services sector rather 
than manufacturing.

-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Retail trade
Food & beverage activity
% YoY
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Taiwan: Consumption indicators
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Nominal Real
% YoY
Taiwan: Average regular earnings
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Overall Age 15-24
Age 25-49 Age 50-64
% 
Taiwan: Unemployment rate 
Sources: CEIC, DBS
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Manufacturing
Services
Construction
'000 persons, YoY
Taiwan: Employment growth
Sources: CEIC, DBS
CONSUMPTION / LABOR MARKET


===== Page 6 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
6

Export performance remained uneven 
between high-tech and traditional sectors. 
Exports of information and communication 
products and electronic components 
continued to post double-digit growth in 
April, while chemicals and metal exports 
remained in contraction.

The AI-driven tech cycle remained in 
expansionary territory, with the electronics 
inventory-to-shipment ratio staying healthy 
at around the neutral level of 1.0.

AI-driven manufacturing activity stayed 
robust. The electronics PMI rose further to 
67.5 in April, lifting the overall CIER 
manufacturing PMI to 60.3.

LNG supply disruptions stemming from the 
Middle East conflict have so far not 
caused significant power shortages in 
Taiwan. Electricity supply operating 
reserves remained at healthy levels of 
around 20% in early May.

-50
0
50
100
150
200
Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26
Information, communication products
Electronic parts
Machinery
Chemicals
Plastics, Rubber
Base metals
% YoY
Taiwan: Exports by product
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Taiwan: Inventory/shipment ratio -
electronics
30
40
50
60
70
80
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Taiwan: PMI manufacturing -
electronics
Sources: CIER, CEIC, DBS
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26
% 7DMA 
Taiwan: Electricity supply 
operating reserves
Sources: CEIC, DBS
MANUFACTURING


===== Page 7 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
7

Property market activity remained weak 
but showed signs of stabilization. The 
number of registered building transfers 
paused its 1.5-year contraction trend.

Transport indicators were mixed. Airport 
freight traffic remained steady and strong, 
while container throughput continued to 
contract.

Property prices also stabilized. Sinyi 
residential property prices in the Taipei 
area recorded a marginal 0.2% YoY 
increase in March.

The tourism sector continued to recover 
despite the absence of mainland Chinese 
visitors. Visitor arrivals reached 880k in 
March, approaching the pre-pandemic 
peak level of 1mn.

-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
% YoY, 3MMA
Taiwan: Registered building transfers
Sources: Ministry of the Interior, DBS
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Airport freight carried
Container traffic
% YoY
Taiwan: Transport indicators
Sources: CEIC, DBS
-5
0
5
10
15
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
% YoY
Taipei: Sinyi residential property prices 
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Taiwan: Visitor arrivals
mn
Sources: CEIC, DBS
SERVICES


===== Page 8 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
8

The inflationary impact of the Middle East 
conflict has started to emerge. CPI rose to 
1.7% YoY in April, while the month-on-
month increase was more notable at 
0.5%.

Pipeline price pressures linked to the 
Middle East conflict remain strong.  
PMI price subindices, which typically lead 
CPI by around three months, surged 
sharply in April to levels close to the 2022 
peak seen during the Russia-Ukraine war.

Government energy subsidies through 
SOEs have helped cushion the shock, but 
they have not fully offset the inflation 
impact. Transportation costs led the 
increase in April CPI.

Inflation expectations are coming under 
close scrutiny. Consumer inflation 
expectations, which tend to move broadly 
in line with CPI, are likely to edge higher in 
the coming months.

1.7
1.9
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
CPI
Core CPI
Taiwan: CPI inflation 
% YoY
Sources: CEIC, DBS
45
50
55
60
65
70
75
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
CPI
PMI services prices (RHS)
Taiwan: CPI vs. PMI services prices
Sources: CIER, CEIC, DBS
% YoY
1.7
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26
Food
Clothing
Housing
Transportation
Health
Education, Entertainment
Others
% YoY, ppt
Taiwan: CPI inflation by component 
Sources: CEIC, DBS
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26CPI
Consumer confidence on price
levels (inverted, RHS)
Taiwan: CPI vs. inflation expectations
Sources: CEIC, DBS
% YoY
PRICES


===== Page 9 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
9

Liquidity conditions remained favourable. 
M2 growth picked up to 5.8% YoY in 
March, staying in the upper half of the 
central bank’s reference range of 2.5-
6.5%. M1 growth accelerated more 
notably to 7.8%, resulting in a positive M1-
M2 gap.

Consumer lending remained restrained by 
the central bank’s credit control measures. 
Housing mortgage loans rose a moderate 
4.5% YoY in March, keeping overall 
consumer loan growth at 4.8%.

Corporate lending strengthened amid 
robust financing demand from tech 
companies. Loans to the electronics 
sector surged by more than 30% YoY in 
April, contributing to an 8.4% increase in 
total corporate loans.

Loan concentration risks improved 
marginally. Real estate-related loans 
accounted for 35.5% of banks’ total loan 
portfolios in March, down from the 2024 
peak of 37.5%.

5.8
7.8
-5
0
5
10
15
20
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
M1B-M2
M2
M1B
% YoY
Taiwan: Money supply
Sources: CEIC, DBS
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Housing
Automobile
Credit card
Taiwan: Consumer loans
% YoY
Sources: CEIC, DBS
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Electronics
Finance & Insurance
Wholesale & Retail trade
Real estate
Taiwan: Corporate loans
Sources: CEIC, DBS
% YoY
20
25
30
35
40
Jan-10 Jan-15 Jan-20 Jan-25
Taiwan: Real estate loans 
% of total bank loans
Sources: CEIC, DBS
LOAN MARKET


===== Page 10 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
10

Taiwan has overtaken Canada, the UK, 
and France this year to become the 
world’s sixth-largest stock market by 
market capitalization (USD4.7tn).

Foreign inflows into Taiwan’s equity 
market remain strong. Net foreign inward 
remittance into TWSE and TPEx rose by 
USD17.9bn in January-March, reaching a 
record high of USD338bn.

There are emerging signs of overheating. 
The TWSE market capitalization has 
exceeded 400% of nominal GDP, 
significantly deviating from historical 
trends – surpassing levels seen during the 
late-1980s bubble period.

Retail investor participation has also 
increased. New trading accounts on the 
TWSE rose to 102k in April, nearly 
doubling from 58k in December 2025.

77.2
15.5
8.6 7.5 5.0 4.7 4.6 4.5 3.9 3.5
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
US CN JP HK IN TW SK CA UK FR
USDtn
World's top 10 stock markets by 
market capitalization (May 11, 2026)
Sources: Bloomberg, DBS
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Jan-10 Jan-15 Jan-20 Jan-25
USDbn
TWSE & TPEx: Foreign net inward 
remittance
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
1Q851Q901Q951Q001Q051Q101Q151Q201Q25
% of nominal GDP
TWSE market capitalization
Sources: CEIC, DBS
2Q26F
12.5
13.0
13.5
14.0
14.5
0
50
100
150
200
Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26
New trading account
openings
Cumulative trading
account holders (RHS)
'000
TWSE: Investor trading accounts
Sources: TWSE, DBS
mn
FINANCIAL MARKET


===== Page 11 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
11

GROWTH, INFLATION, POLICY RATES & FX FORECASTS  
GDP GROWTH, % YOY

CPI INFLATION, % YOY  
2024 2025 2026f 2027f

2024 2025 2026f 2027f 
CHINA 5.0 5.0 4.5 4.0  0.2 0.0 0.5 0.8 
HONG KONG 2.5 3.5 3.0 2.8  1.5 1.4 1.6 1.5 
INDIA 6.7 7.8 6.5 6.4  4.9 2.2 4.5 4.2 
INDIA (FISCAL YEAR) * 6.5 7.7 6.5 6.4  4.6 2.1 4.9 4.0 
INDONESIA 5.0 5.1 5.1 5.1  2.3 1.9 3.2 2.2 
MALAYSIA 5.1 5.2 4.7 4.2  1.8 1.4 2.0 2.0 
PHILIPPINES** 5.6 4.5 4.7 5.0  3.2 1.7 6.5 4.0 
SINGAPORE 5.3 5.0 2.8 2.3  2.4 0.9 2.2 2.0 
SOUTH KOREA 2.0 1.0 2.6 2.0  2.3 2.1 2.6 2.1 
TAIWAN 5.3 8.7 9.4 3.5  2.2 1.7 1.9 1.8 
THAILAND 2.9 2.4 1.6 2.0  0.4 -0.1 2.5 1.5 
VIETNAM 7.0 8.0 6.5 6.5  3.6 3.3 4.8 3.3 
EUROZONE 0.7 1.5 1.4 1.2  2.3 2.2 2.0 2.0 
JAPAN -0.2 1.2 0.5 0.5  2.7 3.2 1.8 1.8 
UNITED STATES*** 2.8 2.0 1.5 1.7  3.0 2.7 2.5 2.5 
* 2020 = Fiscal year Apr20-Mar21   ** new CPI series   *** eop for CPI inflation

POLICY INTEREST RATES, EOP  
1Q26 2Q26 3Q26 4Q26

1Q27 2Q27 3Q27 4Q27 
CHINA* 3.00 3.00 3.00 2.90   2.90 2.80 2.80 2.80 
INDIA 5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25   5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 
INDONESIA 4.75 4.75 4.75 4.75   4.75 4.75 4.75 4.75 
MALAYSIA 2.75 2.75 2.75 2.75   2.75 2.75 2.75 2.75 
PHILIPPINES 4.25 4.75 5.25 5.25   5.25 5.25 5.25 5.25 
SINGAPORE** 1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20   1.20 1.20 1.20 1.20 
SOUTH KOREA 2.50 2.50 2.75 2.75   2.75 2.75 2.75 2.75 
TAIWAN 2.00 2.00 2.13 2.13   2.13 2.13 2.13 2.13 
THAILAND 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 
VIETNAM*** 4.50 5.00 5.00 5.00   5.00 5.00 5.00 5.00 
EUROZONE^ 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00   2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 
JAPAN 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00   1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 
UNITED STATES 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75   3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 
* 1-yr Loan Prime Rate; ** 3M SORA OIS ; *** refinancing rate; ^ deposit facility rate

EXCHANGE RATES, EOP  
1Q26 2Q26 3Q26 4Q26  1Q27 2Q27 3Q27 4Q27 
USD/CNY 6.90 6.83 6.77 6.70   6.74 6.78 6.81 6.85 
USD/HKD 7.82 7.82 7.81 7.81   7.81 7.81 7.80 7.80 
USD/INR 93.9 93.1 92.2 91.4   92.0 92.7 93.3 94.0 
USD/IDR 16900 16770 16635 16500   16500 16500 16500 16500 
USD/MYR 3.96 3.91 3.85 3.80   3.85 3.90 3.95 4.00 
USD/PHP 60.1 59.3 58.5 57.8   58.3 58.8 59.3 59.9 
USD/SGD 1.28 1.27 1.26 1.25   1.26 1.27 1.27 1.28 
USD/KRW 1500 1470 1435 1400   1415 1425 1440 1450 
USD/THB 32.7 32.1 31.6 31.0   31.4 31.8 32.1 32.5 
USD/VND 26340 26230 26110 26000   26130 26250 26380 26500 
AUD/USD 0.70 0.71 0.72 0.73   0.73 0.72 0.72 0.71 
EUR/USD 1.16 1.18 1.19 1.21   1.20 1.19 1.18 1.17 
USD/JPY 159 156 153 149   151 152 153 154 
GBP/USD 1.34 1.36 1.39 1.41   1.40 1.39 1.38 1.37


===== Page 12 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
12

Group Research  
Economics & Strategy

Violet LEE  
Associate 
Publications 
violetleeyh@dbs.com

Taimur BAIG, Ph.D. 
Chief Economist 
Global 
taimurbaig@dbs.com


===== Page 13 =====

Taiwan Chartbook: The AI trillion-dollar leap  May 12, 2026 
13

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or 
collectively, the “Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the 
Company does not make any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, 
timeliness or correctness for any particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This 
research is prepared for general circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the 
specific investment objectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information 
herein is published for the information of addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution for the exercise of 
judgement by addressees, who should obtain separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related 
companies or any individuals connected with the group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, 
consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages of any kind arising from any use of the information 
herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, negligent or otherwise) or further communication 
thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of the possibility thereof. The information herein 
is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities, futures, options or other 
financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The Company and its associates, their 
directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may effect transactions in securities 
mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking an d other banking or 
financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or 
use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or other jurisdiction 
(including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such distribution, publication, 
availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of  
an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of America) where such 
an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore]  This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 
196800306E) which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore. DBS Bank Ltd may distribute reports pr oduced by its respective foreign entities, 
affiliates or other foreign research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial 
Advisers Regulations. Where the report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, 
Expert Investor or an Institutional Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report 
to such persons only to the extent required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65-6878-
8888 for matters arising from, or in connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65-6878-
8888. Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The 
Center, 99 Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The 
Center, 99 Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.


===== Page 14 =====

ss

Radhika Rao 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

El Niño and monsoon – some but not all

The NOAA (press release) highlighted a growing 
61% chance that El Niño might emerge around 
mid-year and persist through at least the end of 
2026. Observers have also cited the likelihood 
that this year’s build up might be the strongest 
in over three decades. Typically, in the Asia 
Pacific, th is development weakens monsoon 
and can lead to drought in some parts, also 
raising the risk of wildfires. Besides El Niño, the 
Indian Ocean Dipole (IOD) will also influence 
rain patterns, with officials expecting a positive 
IOD condition to partly mitigate the El Niño 
impact.

The Indian Meteorological agency IMD has 
projected a below normal monsoon for 2026 , 
in midst of expectations of a strong El Niño  
occurrence. Seasonal rainfall over the country is 
seen at 8% below the Long Period Average 
(LPA), with a 66% probability of monsoon being 
below normal or deficient. Risk of heatwaves 
was also highlighted as a risk for the Apr -Jun 
quarter. Private agency Skymet projected 
rainfall at 94% of LPA, with second half of the 
peak period (June to September) to experience 
shortfalls. The IMD’s next updated forecast is 
due in the last week of May.

In India, recent El Niño occurrences have 
coincided with below normal rainfall  though 
not necessarily drought -like conditions – see 
chart. In 2015 -2016, IMD’s first forecast was 
93% of LPA, which was revised to 88% later and 
actual was closer to 86%. In the past three 
DBS Group Research                                                             May 08, 2026 
30 
Economics 
DBS Flash 
India: El Niño’s rain check 
Economics/India

• The IMD projected below normal 
rainfall, amidst expectations of a strong 
El Niño occurrence. 
• Past trends suggest that only a 
significant shortfall in rainfall materially 
impacts output. 
• The increasing share of irrigated land 
serves as a key mitigating factor. 
• Other counterbalancing factors by way 
of excess foodgrain stocks, reservoir 
levels, fertilisers and administrative 
steps will help prevent a price spiral.  
• Passthrough to rain -sensitive crops, 
nonetheless, pose upside risks to our 
inflation forecast.  
• Implications for forecasts: The RBI 
policy committee is unlikely to act in a 
hurry on supply-side shocks.


===== Page 15 =====

India: El Niño’s rain check   May 8, 2026

Page 2

years, FY24 was the weaker end of normal 
range after experiencing a relatively strong El 
Niño phase (link), followed by two successive 
years of above normal rains at 108% in FY25 and 
FY26. The crucial southwest monsoon accounts 
for ~70% of the annual rainfall, concentrated 
during June to September.

Economic watch factors

Output

The extent of the economic impact will depend 
on the severity, intensity, and length of the El 
Niño occurrence. At the same time, not only the 
strength of aggregate rainfall, but also its 
distribution can impact output.

The share of agriculture in India’s growth mix is 
modest at 16-17% of GDP but has accounted for 
a little less than half of overall employment  in 
recent years. The correlation of the crops sub-
component under GVA (gross value added) , 
which makes up half of overall agriculture 
forestry and fishing (AFF), and foodgrain 
output is high.  
For kharif foodgrain, we observe that in the past 
three decades, more than 10 -11% shortfall in 
the rainfall vs the LPA causes material impact on 
the foodgrain output. For instance, 2014 -2016, 
monsoon was an average 12 -13% below the 
LPA (see chart), resulting in a fall in the summer 
foodgrain output. This was partly responsible 
for the -0.2% yoy fall in GVA -agri and allied 
services in FY15 and a modest 0.6% growth in 
FY16. Hence, assuming a stark double -digit 
shortfall in the monsoon vs LPA pushes the 
GVA-AFF growth rate from 3.5% to 2% in the 
coming year, this could result in 20 -30bp 
reduction in overall headline growth.

As a mitigating factor , the share of gross 
irrigated area as a percentage of overall gross 
cropped area has continued to increase, 
suggesting a reduction in directly rain -fed 
acreage. Yet, key rain-fed summer crops, which 
are largely grown during the Kharif season, are 
heavily dependent on the Southwest monsoon, 
with major production including rice, soybeans, 
cotton, maize, and pulses , as well as few 
horticulture plants.


===== Page 16 =====

India: El Niño’s rain check   May 8, 2026

Page 3

Inflation impact

The temporal and geographical distribution of 
rainfall will determine the eventual impact.

We track ed movements in India’s food CPI 
inflation against the last two El Niño periods (of 
which 2015 -2016 was more severe) , which  
showed that swings were moderate, even if not 
non-trivial. A key offset for inflation during the 
adverse El Niño spell in 2015 -2016 was lower 
commodity prices including energy, which 
helped to keep a lid on non-food pressures. By 
contrast, energy commodity prices are elevated 
at this juncture, suggesting price pressures 
could stem from other quarters as well.

Encouragingly, price pressures can be partly 
mitigated by current foodgrain inventories and 
potential supply countermeasures.  The 
country has ample official foodgrain stocks. As 
of May26, total foodgr ain stocks in the central 
pool (managed by Food Corporation of India) 
jumped to over 60 .mn metric tonnes (LMT), 
which is nearly three times the required buffer 
norms – comprising of 38.6mn LMT of rice and 
21.8mn LMT of wheat. Shortages can be met by 
these inventories to keep prices stable. 
Nonetheless, certain other crop groups where 
maintaining inventories is a challenge 
(perishables like vegetables) and where stocks 
are generally inadequate (oilseeds , pulses ) 
could face price pressure. On the latter, imports 
have been stepped up in the past instances to 
cap the scale of price hikes.

Secondly, risk of shortages will be addressed via 
pre-emptive supply side price management 
steps including redistribution of inter -state 
supplies, stepping up imports or export bans to 
boost domestic stocks, supporting better crop 
yields, containing hoarders, amongst others.

Add to this , adequate reservoir and 
groundwater levels from the past should also 
provide some extent of offset until the winter 
crop but build up for the subsequent cropping 
seasons will fall short if the shortfall in monsoon 
is significant. Current storage levels are higher 
than comparable period last year – see chart.


===== Page 17 =====

India: El Niño’s rain check   May 8, 2026

Page 4

Confluence of forces. At an aggregate level, 
inflation faces a confluence of pressures – 
energy prices, second derivative impact via 
logistics and transport costs, higher input costs 
for businesses , jump in global fertiliser prices 
which will result in higher subsidy outlay and 
vulnerable perishables. Factoring in a modest 
scale of pump price hike and pipeline monsoon 
risks, we revise our annual inflation forecast to 
4.9% yoy (risks of further upside) for FY27, 
before easing to 4% next year.

Compared to retail inflation, the wholesale 
index is more sensitive to commodity and 
imported price pressures and is expected to rise 
further due to base effects and external factors. 
WPI inflation outpaced CPI gauge in the month 
(see chart), signalling pipeline risks.  This is 
reinforced by the sharp rise in PMI input price 
gauge as well as IIMA Business Inflation 
Expectations Survey (BIES)  for March 2026 , 
which cumulatively point to firms facing strong 
cost-push factors, which are still be passed on 
down the value chain to the consumers.

Policy implications.

The RBI monetary policy committee (MPC) is 
unlikely to exhibit urgency in tightening policy 
in response to supply -side - energy and food - 
pressures. The risk of further rate hikes will 
increase if there are signs of a sharp rise in 
inflation expectations and a sustained spillover 
of elevated headline inflation into core inflation 
readings. Our baseline view is for the MPC to 
keep the benchmark rate to keep rates 
unchanged during 2026.

Other non -policy measures have been 
undertaken to stabilize the rupee as discussed 
here and here. Measures to draw in more dollar 
flows are reportedly under consideration, 
including a plan for state -owned banks to sell 
foreign currency bonds,  or introduce a special 
non-resident deposit scheme.  At this juncture, 
any underlying swap arrangements will need to 
factor in higher prevailing US rates vs past 
cycles (including 2013 taper tantrum), which in 
turn implies higher subsidy support from the 
RBI. The quantum of issuance will also need to 
at least partially commensurate with cu rrent 
funding requirements.


===== Page 18 =====

India: El Niño’s rain check   May 8, 2026

Page 5


===== Page 19 =====

India: El Niño’s rain check   May 8, 2026

Page 6

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.  
[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a  person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ba nk Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.


===== Page 20 =====

ss

Radhika Rao 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

Strong start to the year

Indonesia’s economy expanded by a firm 5.6% 
yoy in 1Q26, in line with our  forecast. This 
marks the fastest quarterly growth since 3Q22 . 
Economic momentum was relatively resilient at 
the start of the year , supported by higher 
consumption due to religious festivities, fiscal 
stimulus measures including the traditional 
holiday allowance, low base effects, strong 
government spending and firmer sentiments. 
Activity, however, softened at the tail end of 
the quarter  around March, due to volatility in 
the equity markets, and firms facing supply 
distortions as well as high costs due to the onset 
of the US-Iran tensions.

Consumption rose by 7% yoy, helped by higher 
household and government spending. 
Investment growth also maintained a strong 
beat at around 6% yoy in the quarter. Net 
exports surfaced as a key drag in the period, 
subtracting 1.2ppt off the headline.

DBS Group Research                                                             May 05, 2026 
30 
Economics 
DBS Flash 
Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   
Economics/Indonesia 
• Indonesia’s economy expanded 5.6% 
yoy in 1Q26, matching our above -
consensus forecast.  
• Government spending emerged as a key 
support, while net exports weakened.  
• 1Q26 likely marked the peak 
• Speed bumps lie ahead by way of high 
energy prices and pressure to 
consolidate public finances.  
• Authorities are likely to delay increases 
to the fuel pump prices. 
• This will necessitate adroit fiscal 
management to keep within the -3% of 
GDP.  
• Implications for markets: Rupiah might 
surface as a bigger bother than inflation 
for the BI.  
• Jump in SRBI returns has resulted in 
stealth policy tightening.


===== Page 21 =====

Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   May 5, 2026

Page 2

Outlook: The first quarter likely marked the 
growth peak, with the momentum set to 
moderate as real activity could be dampened by 
high energy prices and pressure to consolidate 
public finances. Factoring in these risks, we 
moderate our growth forecast slightly to 5. 1% 
vs 5.3% currently for 2026.

Bank Indonesia – hawkish pivot

1Q26 CPI inflation averaged  a strong 3.9% yoy 
vs 2.1% average in 2025. An assessment based 
on these numbers should be viewed with 
caution due to a low base, with headline CPI 
inflation expected to normalise 2Q onwards. 
True to the word, April 2026 inflation eased to 
2.4% yoy driven by fading power subsidy -
related base effects and demand moderated 
post-Lebaran. Nonetheless, a gradual but 
steady pick up in the PPI measure warrants 
attention as firms face higher upstream input 
costs and are yet to fully pass these to the final 
output prices.

We see two channels of price impact. Firstly, a 
decision of changes in the retail pump prices 
and associated second derivative impact will be 
crucial. Our full year CPI inflation forecast at 
3.2% assumes no change in the administered 
fuel prices this year, which is also affirmed by 
our onshore channel checks as the government 
appears to treat any subsidy cut as a move of 
last resort.  Nonetheless, with the Strait of 
Hormuz closure, the passthrough from higher 
oil, natural gas and fertilisers warrant attention, 
which could translate into ~0.05 -0.1% imp act, 
assuming static retail prices. Notably, the share 
of energy consumption is higher amongst the 
middle-class vs other household categories . 
This deals additional strain on purchasing 
power, magnified by the absence of social


===== Page 22 =====

Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   May 5, 2026

Page 3

assistance or welfare measures for this stratum 
of the populace. Aggregate minimum wage has 
also risen by a more modest pace than in the 
past few years.  Secondly, other factors like 
rupiah depreciation and El Nino -related 
disruptions in this quarter and next.

Bank Indonesia  held rates unchanged in April 
but guidance carried hawkish undercurrents .  
We see two pre-conditions for the BI to shift to 
a tightening bias : firstly, sharp depreciation 
pressures on the currency, and secondly, an 
increase in the domestic administered 
subsidised fuel prices,  which could generate 
both direct and second -round price pressures, 
taking inflation beyond the official target range. 
While we see a lower probability of an increase 
in the pump prices, rupiah depreciation will be 
a concern for the central bank, with the FX 
reserve buffer also moderating in recent 
months – see chart.

Our base case is for the BI to stay on hold this 
quarter but see an increasing likelihood of a 
measured hike to defend the currenc y in 2Q . 
USDIDR rose past a new high at 17400 in May, 
due to a bid dollar, higher oil and seasonal flows 
(repatriation), notwithstanding persistent 
intervention efforts.

Returns on the SRBI instruments continues to 
climb to draw in more offshore interests, 
building a yawning gap with the benchmark rate 
as well as short end yields. We see this increase 
as a stealth move to increase rates to draw 
rate sensitive flows. When the spread between 
the BI rate vs SRBIs/ SBN yields was similarly 
wide back in 2024, a few spillover 
developments were; a) some extent of 
cannibalisation of (ex -retail) inflows into the 
short-term bonds; b) lent an upside bias to the 
1Y-2Y yield movements, effectively flattening 
the curve as official b ond purchases help ed to 
contain the long end yield; c) draw in flows from 
banks especially if global or domestic 
environment is not conducive ; d)  absorb 
banking system liquidity away from productive 
purposes like boosting credit growth. Investors 
are likely to be mindful of these developments 
this year as well.


===== Page 23 =====

Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   May 5, 2026

Page 4

Separately, t o help better align offshore NDF 
with onshore pricing, BI had intended to relax 
its restriction on domestic banks’ participation 
in the NDF  market. Selected primary dealers, 
particularly those that play a key role in the 
money markets and foreign exchange, will be 
allowed to sell in offshore NDFs.

Fiscal deficit to stay anchored

We are mindful of the sensitives of the fiscal 
math to changes in crude prices (Indonesia 
Crude ICP) and rupiah movements.  For 
instance, market estimates are that every USD 
10bl increase in ICP compared to baseline 
($70bl) will increase net fiscal spending by IDR  
103trn (0.3% of GDP). Meanwhile, assumption 
on the exchange rate is that every IDR100/ USD 
depreciation will raise net fiscal spending by IDR 
800bn. For instance, a scenario under which ICP 
averages $92.5bl for the year with an exchange 
rate at USDIDR 17000, could see the deficit 
edge above the 3.0% of GDP deficit threshold by 
20bp.

Despite elevated pressure on the fiscal math 
due to high energy costs and consequent need 
for budgetary support, we expect the -3% of 
GDP annual deficit threshold to be maintained.

For a start, 1Q26 run rate  saw expenditure 
being frontloaded, rising 30% yoy accompanied 
by 10% increase in revenues  – see chart . This 
led the 1Q fiscal deficit to jump to -0.93% of 
GDP vs customary- flat-to-small surplus in most 
years. Given this weak start to the year, we 
expect the pace of spending to moderate in the 
next three quarters, while also carving out 
savings from existing schemes and flagship 
programs (including the nutritious food 
program). The pace of disbursements for the 
MBG program decelerated into 2Q, which along 
with broader pronouncements of plans to lower 
allocation to the program might result in 0. 2-
0.4ppt of GDP worth room.

Growth in revenues was strong in 1Q26, partly 
driven by a low base. While the quarterly pace 
will slow o ver the next three quarters, overall 
revenues are expected to receive a hand from: 
a) export duties on select commodities; b) 
better tax administration measures; c) natural 
resource-based revenues due to higher energy


===== Page 24 =====

Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   May 5, 2026

Page 5

and base metal prices . The underlying fiscal 
math will also be subject to other 
considerations for instance , a) if there is any 
formal roadmap that is tabled to seek a 
temporary wider deficit akin to the pandemic 
and then being brought back below -3% of GDP; 
b)  spending in deferred or treated as below the 
line; c)  sharp untenable rally in global crude 
prices, necessitating a passthrough to 
subsidised and non-subsidised prices, which will 
help better balance the fiscal books.

Financial markets

Rupiah has persistently been one of the 
underperformers this year, aggravated by the 
outbreak of the US -Iran tensions since March.  
April-May are seasonally weak periods for the 
currency on USD repatriation demand. While 
the macro data is still proving to be relatively 
resilient, investors have adopted a cautious 
stance ahead of the MSCI review, rating 
agencies outlook downgrade and governance 
issues. With these in view, we would be 
cautious on the IDR asset performance this 
quarter, expecting fiscal rationalisation efforts 
to be supportive in 2H.


===== Page 25 =====

Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   May 5, 2026

Page 6


===== Page 26 =====

Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   May 5, 2026

Page 7


===== Page 27 =====

Indonesia growth: Firm start, speed bump ahead   May 5, 2026

Page 8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .
