# Financial Report Source 15

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 047: 2026年9月LPR报价保持不变，后期有望下调

Source PDF: all report pdf/2026年9月LPR报价保持不变，后期有望下调.pdf
Report source: 东方金诚
Date: 2026-09-20
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

东方金诚宏观研究

1 
2026 年 9 月 LPR 报价保持不变，后期有望下调 
 王青 冯琳 
2026 年 9 月 20 日，中国人民银行授权全国银行间同业拆借中心公布新版 LPR 报价：1 年
期品种报 3.0%，上月为 3.0%；5 年期以上品种报 3.5%，上月为 3.5%。 
解读：

9 月两个期限品种的 LPR 报价保持不变，基本符合市场预期。首先，当月定价基础没有
变化。自上月 LPR 报价公布以来，主要政策利率（央行 7 天期逆回购利率）保持在 1.4%。这
意味着 9 月 LPR 报价的定价基础稳定，已在很大程度上预示当月 LPR 报价会继续按兵不动。
其次，当前报价行缺乏主动下调 LPR 报价加点的动力。数据显示，或受近期买断式逆回购持
续等量续作，以及前期 7 天期逆回购多为地量或零操作等影响，9 月以来货币市场隔夜资金
利率 DR001 均值较上月小幅上行，1 年期商业银行（AAA 级）同业存单到期收益率也略有走
高。这意味着商业银行近期在货币市场的批发融资成本有所上升。另外，主要受部分高息定
期存款到期重定价等带动，二季度商业银行净息差较一季度回升 0.01 个百分点至 1.41%，为
2022 年一季度以来首次回升，但继续处于历史低位附近。这意味着从资金成本和净息差角度
看，当前报价行仍缺乏主动下调 LPR 报价加点的动力。 
我们认为，年初以来 LPR 报价保持稳定，背后是上半年 GDP 增速达到 4.7%，落在全年
4.5%至 5.0%的经济增速目标范围之内，以高技术制造业为代表的新质生产力领域加速发展。
这意味着尽管二季度以来国内投资、消费势头转弱，经济增长动能有所下行，但宏观政策保
持较强定力，货币政策继续处于观察期。这是 9 月 LPR 报价未作调整的根本原因。 
我们判断，后期央行有可能实施政策性降息，将带动 LPR 报价跟进下调。7 月 30 日中央
政治局会议强调，接下来要“充分发挥各项存量政策效能，及时谋划出台务实管用的增量政
策，加大逆周期调节力度”，并要求“综合运用并适时调整货币政策工具 ”。综合考虑经济
金融形势和物价走势，不排除接下来出台新一轮增量政策的可能，主要包括：一是结构性货
币政策工具继续降价、增量、扩围，定向支持科技融资、普惠金融，推动新旧动能转换，稳
定就业大局。二是实施降息降准，估计降息幅度为 10 个基点，降准 0.5 个百分点。这将带动
LPR 报价跟进下调，是年底前促消费、稳投资，着力提振内需的一个重要发力点，对稳定房

### Page 2

东方金诚宏观研究

2 
地产市场也有重要意义。 
高通胀压力下，9 月美联储加息落地，欧洲、日本央行也在上调政策利率。我们判断，
尽管近期外部金融环境收紧，但国内货币政策还会坚持适度宽松基调，对央行实施降息的影
响有限。背后有两个原因：首先是国内外物价走势存在根本差异。数据显示，1-8 月国内 CPI
累计同比为 0.9%，8 月为 0.8%,持续低于 2.0%左右的目标水平，且未来上行趋势并不明显；
而 1-8 月美国、欧元区、日本 CPI 累计同比分别为 3.3%、2.7%、1.6%，8 月分别为 3.4%、
3.2%、1.9%，其中美、欧持续处于偏高水平，日本面临较强上行压力。这在很大程度上决定
了当前国内外货币政策会存在方向性差别。 
其次，当前国内货币政策有条件坚持以我为主。背后是我国已经建立了跨境资金流动
“宏观审慎+微观监管”两位一体监管框架。这意味着因国内外货币政策周期错位引发的大规
模跨境资金流动会得到有效控制，因而其对人民币汇率的影响不必高估。可以看到，2020 年
以来，美联储货币政策大放大收，国内货币政策始终保持支持性立场，央行持续小幅下调政
策利率。

---
## Document 188: AI doom_ A brief history of bad tech predictions (2026-09-15)

Source PDF: all report pdf/AI doom_ A brief history of bad tech predictions (2026-09-15).pdf
Report source: DB Research
Date: 2026-09-15
Pages: 10
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

AI doom: A brief history of bad 
tech predictions

1 
Authors 
Adrian Cox 
Research Analyst

September 15, 2026 
It takes guts to do what Bob Metcalfe did. After wrongly predicting in an article in 
1995 that the internet would go “spectacularly supernova” and collapse in 1996, 
the co-inventor of Ethernet and founder of 3Com then pulped a copy of the 
article in a blender and drank it at a conference in 1997 as a way to eat his words. 
The latest tech predictions are about no less than an AI apocalypse. Various tech 
leaders spent the weekend warning of catastrophic but not fully specified risks if 
it is not contained.  
Yet history suggests that even the greatest minds of their generations have a poor 
record in predicting what tech is coming down the line, let alone what its effects 
will be in the real world.   
The stakes could not be higher – not just the future of life itself but, in the shorter 
term, the future of a historic boom that depends on hype turning into reality.  
In this report, we examine: 
1. “Prediction is very difficult, especially if it’s about the future” 
2. Today’s debate in a (rough) nutshell 
3. A century of good and bad tech predictions 
4. Why is it so hard to predict the future? 
5. What makes AI special – and gives us hope for the future

### Page 2

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 2

Concerns about AI have moved in waves since the launch of ChatGPT nearly four 
years ago. This year there was a spike in searches for “SaaSpocalypse ” (the 
concern that software -as-a-service would be disintermediated by AI agents) in 
February, followed by a surge in “jobs apocalypse” in May, Google Trends data 
show. Both have been totally eclipsed in recent days by searches for AI extinction. 
But taking a step back, all are far behind “AI bubble”, itself behind “deepfake”, in 
turn below “AI students”, overall “AI risk” and – biggest of the lot – the very 
tangible and immediate “cybersecurity”, almost all of which have surged this year, 
according to Google Trends data.

“Prediction is very difficult, especially if it’s about the future”: 
Niels Bohr, often also attributed to Yogi Berra  
Wanting to know what will happen tomorrow is deeply visceral – literally. 
People have been sacrificing sheep and chickens for four millennia to read the 
future in their entrails. Nowadays almost a third of Americans say they believe in 
astrology and consult their horoscope. We want to believe that Lionel Messi really 
can see space in a football match before it even exists, even if it is partly his 
movement that helps create the space he appears to predict. 
But predicting the future is hard. For AI, it’s not just about what it will be able to 
do but also when it will be able to do it – whether more than $5 trillion in 
investment by the hyperscalers alone over the next five years  will pay off before 
the advanced semiconductor chips they’re buying become redundant.  
It’s also about how rapidly and intensively AI can be adopted. Asset prices are a 
still more uncertain derivative, whipping around like the tail of a snake in response 
to every shift in expectations. 
US President Donald Trump and China found themselves on the same side in 
rebutting the latest concerns as fearmongering, albeit with Trump adding that 
America needs to stay ahead of China in AI. 
“Those who have knowledge, don’t predict. Those who predict, don’t have 
knowledge.” Lao Tzu

A glance through history would give any investor indigestion. Most predictions 
are wrong. The favourites in horse races lose 70 percent of races. It took a decade 
or more for demand to catch up with the infrastructure laid down in the British 
canal and railway and US telecoms and fibre booms – and many investors never 
recovered their capital. 
Technology predictions have a particularly mixed record as the binary order of the 
labs collides with the messy reality of the world. Famous examples range from 
IBM Chairman Thomas Watson’s underestimation of demand for computers in 
1943 (“I think there is a world market for maybe five computers”) to Elon Musk’s 
repeated overestimation of imminent widespread adoption of self -driving cars 
since 2013 (“We should be able to do 90 percent of miles driven within three 
years”).

### Page 3

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 3

Technologists are not immune from making category errors, mistaking the most 
visible, automatable component of a job for the job itself . For example, 
radiologists, a favourite case study for believe rs in a jobs apocalypse, do much 
more than looking at images and making binary diagnoses. Much of their value 
lies in interpretation, judgement, communication and clinical decision-making. 
Ultimately, what we see in the future is not so much a window as a mirror into our 
own hopes and fears. 
And the problem is that hindsight makes what actually happens seem so obvious 
that we never seem to learn.

Today’s debate in a (rough) nutshell 
The current debate encapsulates a perfect storm of an extremely high -stakes 
issue with limited transparency and an inherently unknowable outcome. 
What sparked the current surge in concern? 
The current debate comes after a researcher from one of the leading frontier labs 
quit, citing safety concerns; AI agents apparently collaborated with each other on 
a number of high-profile security breaches; and labs hinted that the technology is 
getting closer to “recursive self improvement”, ie AI improving AI. 
Is the existential debate something new? 
It is actually nothing new: leading economists and academics warned in July that 
“we must act now” to steer AI through a potential “transformation of our 
economy, larger than the Industrial Revolution… over a vastly shorter time 
frame”. That echoed the even more ominous statement three years ago by AI 
leaders calling for action to mitigate “the risk of extinction”. 
The tug of war between “doomers ” vs “boomers” has played a pivotal role in the 
development of the key frontier labs. Silicon Valley insiders sometimes refer to 
their “p(doom)” rating, representing their estimated percentage chance that AI 
will cause an existential catastrophe. 
What does an extinction scenario look like? 
Experts including Tesla’s Musk, “godfather of AI” Geoffrey Hinton and 
philosopher Nick Bostrom have been warning about it for well over a decade. In 
the latter’s famous “paperclip maximiser” scenario, a superintelligent AI runs out 
of steel and then kills humans in a single -minded drive to fulfil its task of making 
paperclips. Fears so metimes centre around AI that has access to coding, the 
internet and knowledge of how people think, in order to manipulate them – as 
current AI models indeed do. 
Why has it caught on so fast this time? 
One factor is that i t comes amid a tech backlash, particularly in the US , where 
concern about AI has become a rare bipartisan issue ahead of the US mid -term 
elections in November . Local concerns about data centre  construction have 
become rallying points for voters in a way that vague fears about long -term jobs 
did not. Politicians including Senator Bernie Sanders have moved to propose 
wide-ranging legislation.

### Page 4

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 4

What arguments do companies make for continuing AI research? 
1. If we don’t do it, someone else will.  That may be e ither China or other, 
less responsible companies. 
3. Good AI is the answer to bad AI. It should create defences against rogue 
AI and misuse of AI, and solve issues like AI’s huge energy and water use.  
What do critics say? 
1. AI is not dangerous because it is too clever but rather because it is too 
limited. It does not think  like a human  and p eople should not 
anthropomorphise it, critics say , adding that i t is flawed probabilistic 
code that cannot reliably follow instructions . Longstanding critic Gary 
Marcus argues that it should be recalled until it can be shown to be safe 
and is properly controlled. 
2. AI leaders are defending their own businesses.  With potential IPOs on 
the horizon, a rising challenge from open-source models, and progress 
towards Artificial General Intelligence (AGI) being called into question, a 
handful of companies may benefit from a pause or legislation that helps 
protect their lead, critics say. Doomer talk distracts from real issues like 
deepfakes, copyright infringement and cybersecurity lapses, they say. 
3. Extinction scenarios are overblown. The internet is a diversified platform, 
so talk of AI somehow switching it off is fanciful , critics say. AI does not 
and will not realistically have sustained secret access to military or 
dangerous biotech  resources, or be able to influence (very non -
deterministic) human brains en masse, critics say. Humans will use tame 
AI and other tools, eg kill switches, if needed  to resist attacks.  Another 
“godfather of AI” Yann LeCun says the real risk is of power concentration.

A century of good and bad technology predictions 
You have to admire people who have the courage to stick their neck out and make 
predictions, even if they don’t always work out. Vague predictions are relatively 
easy; specific ones within specific timeframes are harder.  
It is no wonder that executives are coached by their ever-cautious PR teams to 
avoid answering hypothetical questions or giving dates to reach their targets. 
• Nikolai Tesla, scientist, 1926 : “When wireless is perfectly applied… we 
will be able to communicate with one another instantly, irrespective of 
distance…” The instruments will be “amazingly simple… A man will be 
able to carry one in his vest pocket”. He was right, albeit imprecise about 
the how or when it would be achieved. 
• Albert Einstein, physicist, 1934: “There is not the slightest indication that 
[nuclear energy] will ever be obtainable. It would mean that the atom 
would have to be shattered at will.”  Within a decade, in 19 42, a team at 
the University of Chicago had created the first sustaining chain reaction, 
a precursor to the nuclear reactor. 
2. The potential benefits outweigh the risks. AI may, they say, c ure       
  cancer, create new jobs and even eliminate the need for work altogether.

### Page 5

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 5

• Ray Kurzweil, futurist, 1999: “By 2029, computers will have human-level 
intelligence.” Dismissed at the time, many (though by far not all) of his 
predictions have worked out, fuelled by what he called the “law of 
accelerating returns”. His prediction from almost 40 years ago of artificial 
general intelligence by the end of this decade is remarkably close to the 
current “San Francisco Consensus”. 
• Steve Chen, Chief Technology Officer and co-founder of YouTube, 2005: 
“There's just not that many videos I want to watch.” Despite his concern, 
YouTube was bought by Google (now Alphabet) for $1.65bn a year later. 
The unit made more than $11bn in advertising revenue in the most recent 
quarter. 
• Steve Ballmer, Microsoft CEO, 2007: “There’s no chance that the iPhone 
is going to get any significant market share.” But you may be reading this 
on one of the more than 3 billion iPhones sold since its launch in 2007. 
• Geoffrey Hinton, “godfather of AI”, 2016 : “People should stop training 
radiologists now. It’s just completely obvious within five years deep 
learning is going to do better than radiologists… It might be 10 years.” In 
fact, the number of radiologists has increased by about 10 percent over 
the past 10 years , in part because of the limitations of AI  and in part 
because of the increase in demand from an ageing population and more 
affordable healthcare.  Hinton has walked back his comments and 
humans and AI are working together. 
• Sam Altman, CEO of OpenAI, 2025 : “I can easily imagine a world where 
30 to 40% of the tasks that happen in the economy today get done by AI 
in the not very distant future ." He revised this view in May amid a 
backlash against AI, saying he and his team had been “roughly right” in 
their technological predictions but “pretty wrong” on the economic and 
social implications. “I’m delighted to be wrong about this,” he said.

Why is it so hard to predict the future? 
"The idea that the future is unpredictable is undermined everyday by the ease 
with which the past is explained." Daniel Kahneman 
1. Chaos theory: treating complex systems as if they are simple and linear. 
• Systems like traffic, economies and social trends are finely balanced and 
sensitive to initial conditions. The butterfly effect means a tiny, 
unforeseen variable can lead to vastly different outcomes. Just take a 
look at the ragged history of market -implied forecasts of US Federal 
Reserve interest rates, where extrapolating from current trends has been 
reliably wrong.

### Page 6

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 6

Figure 3: US Fed Funds effective rate has rarely matched futures markets 
expectations (%)

Source: Deutsche Bank Research

• Take self-driving cars , for example . It turns out to be about more than 
getting the technology right for the rubber to hit the road: 
a. Technological hurdles and “edge cases” : throwing more data and 
processing power at the problem is not enough. There is an infinite 
long tail of unpredictable events (“edge cases”) , like sun glare, a 
cyclist riding the wrong way in a bike lane, a person in an animal 
costume, or road-rage-enhanced hand gestures. 
b. Regulatory labyrinth : autonomous vehicle optimists have come up 
against legal and ethical debates around liability, safety certification 
and moral challenges such as the so -called “trolley problem”, when 
swerving to avoid hitting one victim means colliding with another. 
Regulation is a slow-lane activity. 
c. Social and psychological barriers : public acceptance has been 
slowed down by high-profile accidents and safety concerns. Robots 
are held to a higher standard than flesh-and-blood motorists. It might 
be easier to navigate a world where all cars were self-driving, but the 
“messy middle”, with a mixture of both, is much harder for algorithms 
to navigate. 
• The future of AI will ultimately depend more on the prosaic challenges of 
workflow integration  at enterprises that will need to pay for it than on 
releasing yet another model with a marginal step up in capabilities.

### Page 7

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 7

2. Cognitive bias: flaws in how the brain works 
• Linear thinking about  exponential change : We fail to intuitively 
understand how different exponential change is from linear change. As 
Wharton Professor Ethan Mollick says, “being on an exponential means 
each change over a fixed window is larger than the one before it… This 
is why AI keeps feeling like it is making leaps… Even though it is a curve 
on a graph, we keep experiencing a steady doubling of capability as a 
series of shocks.” This cognitive tendency to track exponential change in 
linear terms helps explain big AI market swings, he says.

Figure 4: Computation used to train 
notable AI systems (petaFLOP): log 
scale

Figure 5: Computation used to train 
notable AI systems (petaFLOP): linear 
scale

Source: Deutsche Bank Research

Source: Deutsche Bank Research

• Optimism bias and the planning fallacy : underestimating costs and 
overestimating benefits. For example, only a quarter of more than 3,000 
megaprojects studied by Sa ïd Business School came in on budget or 
better, only 2.8 percent were on budget and on time, and only 0.2 percent 
were on budget, on time and on benefits. Large -scale infrastructure 
projects are “too easy to start and too difficult to stop,” the authors sai d 
in the study from 2019. It remains to be seen how the recent surge in 
datacentre construction will compare. 
• Confirmation bias : favouring information that confirms existing beliefs. 
For years, legacy automakers dismissed electric vehicles by focusing on 
their high costs and limited range, ignoring the fact that rapid advances 
in battery technology would soon change that.  
• Anchoring: relying too heavily on early information. Microsoft’s Ballmer 
dismissed the iPhone when it was launched because it was “the most 
expensive phone in the world and it doesn’t appeal to business 
customers because it doesn’t have a keyboard which makes it not a very 
good email machine”. He later said he did not understand how mob ile 
carrier subsidies would make it affordable. More broadly, he missed that 
this was a new business model.

### Page 8

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 8

3. Limited information: inability to see  
• It is not just the future that is unknowable but also the present. Feedback 
mechanisms are often delayed, making it hard to distinguish between 
causation and correlation, and between relevant and irrelevant factors. 
• Isolating key factors is impossible.  Even since the development of 
scientific methods and controlled experiments, we have not come that 
far since the Mesoamericans found ways to prepare maize where they 
didn’t succumb to a long -term wasting disease called pellagra. The 
problem was that they weren’t able to single out the effective part of the 
process – soaking the maize in an alkaline solution of water and ash –from 
the other ineffective parts of the package – such as blowing on the maize 
before cooking it. 
• (Author David Oks draws a fascinating parallel between this example of 
a delayed feedback mechanism and the tendency of AI models to 
“overfit”, extrapolating too much from coarse and sparse data to fill in the 
gaps. If the model creates a complex output and gets a single reward 
signal for it, the rational move is reproduce all of its features, including 
the ones that were incidental – such as AI’s trademark verbal tics.) 
• No one wants to risk throwing the baby out with the bathwater . 
Argentinian President Javier Milei talked publicly about his superstitious 
insistence on staying at home wearing a lucky jacket rather than watching 
his team playing in the football World Cup live at the stadium. 
4. Self-interest: incentives favour more extreme positions 
• AI is not magic, a silver bullet or a charity, but a commercial industry.  
• Most participants have incentives to amplify the stakes.  Founders need 
belief, investors need momentum, incumbents need gravitas, 
consultants need urgency, policymakers need relevance, executives 
need a narrative and journalists need drama. This is not a criticism of 
individuals or organisations, or even of the likely revolutionary impact of 
AI.  
• The challenge is magnified by a social media -driven economy . Social 
platforms favour novelty, negativity, moral intensity and shareability. For 
example, in political tweets, one study by New York University found 
each additional moral -emotional word was associated with about a 20 
percent higher retweet rate. Another study by MIT found that false news 
was 70 percent more likely to be retweeted than true news and reached 
a threshold of 1,500 people six times faster.  
• That means moderate claims are likely to be under -distributed and 
extreme claims over -rewarded. Implausibly precise numbers for the 
future size of the AI economy, for example, or dramatic doom -laden 
scenarios heavy with emotive language will continue to attract greater 
attention than even -handed assessment. (See here for our quantitative 
analysis of two particularly striking examples from ear lier this year: 
“Something big is happening in AI… Or is it?”.)

### Page 9

14 September 2026 
Thematic Research

Deutsche Bank AG Page 9

What makes AI special – and gives hope for the future 
Technology may be liable to erroneous thinking  because of the disconnect 
between visionaries in Silicon Valley and similar communities, and the rest of the 
world. 
Cynics may say that people with extraordinary knowledge and skills in one area 
may be even more prone than most to wrongly estimate their lack of knowledge 
or skills in other areas: the so-called Dunning-Kruger effect.  
That may include the reality of implementing AI on a trading floor in Wall Street, 
an office supplies wholesaler on the outskirts of London  or a n auto  maker in 
Mumbai. 
There is also a long tradition of correctly identifying the task that will disappear 
but getting wrong what humans will do instead. 
1982: Computers “… can develop into monsters, damage the physical and mental 
health of the  clerical staff – maybe even eliminate their jobs”: the Washington 
Post reported from a clerical conference. Computers instead became the core 
tool of knowledge workers. 
1983: The pocket calculator “… has become the target of critics who fear that its 
use in the classroom will render generations of children dependent on batteries 
instead of brains”, the Washington Post reported. Instead expectations changed 
about what people calculate for themselves. 
2009: Cloud computing: around half of companies surveyed “cited security and 
privacy concerns as their top reason for not using cloud computing”, Forrester 
Research found. Today companies entrust much of their critical infrastructure to 
the cloud. 
“We overestimate the impact of technology in the short-term and underestimate 
the effect in the long run.” Roy Amara, Stanford computer scientist 
But t his time may really be different – with AI as a partner , starting with 
(deterministic) predictive AI . It is certainly helping weather forecasters  to sift 
through unimaginable amounts of data . Four-day forecasts are now said to be 
about as accurate as one-day forecasts in the 1990s. 
And for the time being, your prediction s about the impact of AI are no less valid 
than an AI expert based in the very particular world of Silicon Valley. And t he 
future of AI will be made not in Silicon Valley but in Main Street. 
There are diminishing returns. The limit of predictability with standard physics 
models is about eight days, while deep-learning AI models increase that by just 
one day to nine days. However, the difference is that they generate state-of-the-
art  forecasts  100,000  times  faster,  and  10,000  times  more  energy-efficiently, 
meaning they can be done on a laptop rather than a supercomputer.

### Page 10

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
AI doom: A brief history of bad tech predictions – September 15, 2026

---
## Document 214: Australian Business Conditions and Confidence, August (2026-09-25)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Australian Business Conditions and Confidence, August (2026-09-25).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-09-25
Pages: 12
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#businessconditions #confidence #aud #australia
Australian Business Conditions and Confidence, August
By Luka Belobrajdic
Economist, Westpac
14:40 September 08 2026 Share
A deterioration in profitability and trading conditions sees business conditions fall to their
weakest level since the pandemic, while confidence continues to slide. Conditions –5pts to
–1 / Confidence –2pts to –8.

### Page 2

The August NAB Business Survey was in the field from 24 to 31 August, capturing businesses’ reaction
to ongoing global uncertainty, elevated fuel prices and, at least in part, the upside surprise in July’s
inflation figures. The headline business conditions index fell into negative territory for the first time in six
years, declining 5pts to –1 and marking the weakest result since the height of the COVID-19 pandemic
in 2020. Conditions were relatively stable but sluggish over recent months; today’s result, however, has

pulled the index 7pts below its long-run average, highlighting the risk of further slowing in growth near-
term as businesses grapple with higher interest rates and uncertainty stemming from the Middle East
conflict.
Across the major sub-components, profitability was the primary driver of the deterioration in conditions.
The sub-index fell 10pts to –9, its lowest level since the pandemic and the sharpest decline since
January 2022. At 14pts below its long-run average, the result suggests a growing share of firms are

reporting margin squeeze, likely reflecting the combined impact of elevated costs and higher interest
rates. Trading conditions also weakened materially, falling 5pts to 3 after holding at 8 over the previous
four months. The sub-index now sits 9pts below its long-run average and, like profitability, is at its
weakest level since the pandemic. The result points to a softening in demand conditions despite the
resilience evident in July’s household spending indicator. Employment was broadly unchanged at 3 on

a rounded basis, though eased 1pt in unrounded terms.

### Page 3

Business confidence declined for a second consecutive month, falling 2pts to –8 and extending the
reversal of the recovery that emerged from the conflict lows in March and April. While confidence
remains well above the lows recorded earlier in the year, the August reading remains deeply
pessimistic, sitting 13pts below its long-run average. The deterioration coincides with lingering
uncertainty and persistent cost pressures, with the national average retail petrol price once again lifting

above $2/L in August following the roll-off of the fuel excise discount. The upside surprise in July’s
inflation figures, which prompted markets to increase expectations of further RBA tightening, also likely
weighed on confidence.
Cost growth softened a touch in August. Final product prices declined 0.2ppt to 0.8%qtr, though the
measure remains 0.2ppt above its long-run average. Given the sharp decline in profitability and
continued strength in purchase cost growth, it would not be surprising to see firms seek to rebuild

margins through stronger final product price growth in coming months. Labour cost growth also eased
slightly, down 0.1ppt to 1.9%qtr, though this remains 0.6ppt above its long-run average. Purchase cost
growth, by contrast, rose 0.1ppt to 2.3%qtr and remains elevated at 1.1ppt above its long-run average.
Capacity utilisation retraced around half of July’s gain, declining 0.6ppt to 82.5%. While still 1.1ppt
above its long-run average and continuing to trend higher on a three-month average basis, utilisation

remains below levels observed earlier in the year. Capital expenditure was broadly unchanged in
unrounded terms at 2. Nevertheless, with the sub-index sitting 4pts below its long-run average and

### Page 4

Related articles
continuing to trend lower on a three-month average basis, the result suggests that weakness in
business investment observed in the recent weeks National Accounts may be extending into the
September quarter.
Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 5

AI, Ageing and the Budget: Five Takeaways from the 2026 IGR
September 21 2026 • 5 mins
#businessconditions
By Pat Bustamante

### Page 6

Productivity in Practice
September 11 2026 • 3
#businessconditions
By Westpac Business Bank

### Page 7

First Impressions: NZ business confidence, August 2026
August 31 2026 • 2 mins
#businessconditions
By Michael Gordon
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #semigovernment #rba #basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #jpy #rbnz #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

### Page 8

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 9

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 10

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 11

ce ta  ega  ag ee e ts bet ee  estpac a d C  a d ob gat o s o  C  do ot ep ese t
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 12

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 237: Country Risk Profile_ Vietnam (2026-09-24)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Country Risk Profile_ Vietnam (2026-09-24).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Issue 
19 
24 
September 2026

◼ 
 Vietnam  
has 
 continue
 d 
to enjoy very strong economic growth
 , 
despite external shocks
 ; 
◼ 
 Vietnam has not yet fixed its external liquidity problem
 , which 
 is 
a source of vulnerability
 ; 
◼ 
 M
edium
-
 term prospects are 
 favourable
 ; 
◼ 
 Risk profile: 
 strong economic growth and low public 
 and  
foreign debt vs. low external liquidity and 
 a 
weak 
banking sector.

Issue x 
X September 
2026

COUNTRY RISK PROFILE: VIETNAM 
Christine Peltier 
 – 
September 2026

### Page 2

EcoInsight

economic
 -
 research.bnpparibas.com

2

VIETNAM 
HAS 
CONTINUE
D 
TO ENJOY VERY STRONG ECONOMIC GROWTH
, 
DESPITE EXTERNAL SHOCKS 
Vietnam’s economic success story has continued
 , 
despite last year’s US tariff shock and this year’s energy shock  
◼ 
 Economic growth accelerated to 8% in 2025 and 8.2% y/y in H1 2026, driven by exports, investment and private consumption. 
 It is 
projected to slow in the short term, reaching a still strong 
 level of 
 7.3% in 2026. 
 External accounts strengthened in 
 2025
, but 
they 
have 
 deteriorat
 ed 
in recent months. Public and external debt ratios 
 remain  
moderate.  
◼ 
 Vietnam is highly exposed to the global energy shock
 , 
but 
the consequences have been 
 less severe  
than expected  
so far
 . Economic 
activity 
 has continued to grow 
 strong
 ly
, notably because the export
 -
 oriented manufacturing sector 
 has been 
 boosted by global 
demand for AI goods. 
 F
iscal and current account balances can absorb a deterioration
 . 
 I
nflation has increased 
 while 
 currency 
depreciation pressures  
have remained 
 manageable. 
 Yet, 
as 
 the negative impact of high energy prices 
 is expected to persist, 
 V
ietnam  
could face 
 more 
severe external  
liquidity tensions going forward.

Vietnam’s export base has strengthened further over the past year, notwithstanding the risin
 g 
US tariffs
 , notably 
because 
 Vietnam 
 has been a  
key beneficiar
 y 
of the surgin
 g 
global demand for AI
 -
 related goods  
◼ 
 Export growth strengthened in 2025 (+17% in value), driven by electronic goods (+48%) and sales to the U
 nited 
S
tates 
(+28%). V
ietnam 
was 
 one of 
the main targets of President Trump’s tariff war in early 2025, but the tariff shock was much smaller than initially feared, 
and exports were boosted by surgin
 g 
AI
-
 related demand. V
 ietnam  
increased its global market share (1.9% of world exports 
 in 2025 
vs. 1.7% in 2024), supported by gains in the US market (5.7% of US imports vs. 4.2% in 2024) and the semiconductor sector (
 Vietnam 
is estimated  
to 
account for  
2.9% of world exports of semiconductors vs. 1.6% in 2024).  
◼ 
 Solid growth dynamics in industrial 
 out
p
ut 
and exports ha
 ve 
continued 
 in 2026
 . Exports rose by 
 21.9% y/y in the first eight months 
of the year
 , 
led by the strong increase in both volume and price of tech goods.  
However, 
 Vietnam  
adds little value to the tech goods  
that 
it exports as it speciali
 s
es mostly in assembl
 ing 
and packaging chips to form electronic components. 
 Therefore, i
 ts balance of 
trade of semiconductor goods is negative
 , as i
 mports and exports of tech goods are increasing in tandem.  
◼ 
 V
ietnam
 ’s trade surplus with the U
 nited 
 S
tates 
has 
 surged in the past three years and 
 recently  
bec
a
me the largest bilateral surplus, 
ahead of Mexico and China
 . 
It 
 reach
 ed 
 USD2
 19 
 bn in the 12
 -
month period to 
 July 
 2026
, up 
from USD116 bn in 2022  
(
vs. 
 Mexico’s 
trade surplus with the 
 US: 
USD213 bn  
and China’s trade surplus with the US: 
 USD165 bn  
during  
the same period
 ).  
◼ 
 Meanwhile, V
 ietnam
 ’s imports of Chinese goods have increased rapidly (+3
 6.9
% y/y in 
 the first eight months of 
 2026), causing its 
trade deficit with China to surge.  
Indeed, V
 ietnam  
has played a growing role in the rerouting of Chinese goods to the US. It has also 
benefited largely from the reorgani
 s
ation of production chains in the region and continued to attract 
 significant  
 FDI, mostly from 
Asian countries. Net FDI inflows have exceeded 4% of GDP in recent years, which has fostered continued expansion of the 
manufacturing sector and progress up the value chain.  
◼ 
 In the 
 short term
 , 
solid export growth dynamics are likely to continue, assuming 
 that 
 there is no correction in the AI cycle and 
 that 
manufacturing production 
 is 
 not hindered by energy supply difficulties.  
◼ 
 US trade policy remains 
 a source of 
 uncertain
 ty
. The US effective tariff rate on V
 ietnam’s  
goods, which rose from 3.9% at end
 -
 2024 
to 19.3% in Aug
 ust 
 2025, 
 has fallen 
 back 
 in 2026 (
 as the US Supreme Court cancelled ‘reciprocal’ tariffs)
 ; it is now close to 10
 %. This 
is higher than 
 some South Asian 
 neighbours
 , 
 but not high enough to undermine the competitiveness of 
 Vietnamese 
 goods 
substantially
 . However, Vietnam is 
 still 
 exposed to the risk of new US tariffs, given its connector role between China 
 and 
 the U
 nited 
S
tates 
and its huge trade surplus with the U
 nited 
 S
tates
.

Vietnam  
is a net energy importer highly exposed to the consequences of the conflict in the Middle East. So far, 
the impact of hydrocarbon supply disruptions has been 
 more moderate  
than expected, but it could 
 worsen 
 in 
the coming months.  
◼ 
 Vietnam 
 is vulnerable to disruptions in energy trade flows
 . I
n 2025, 
 88% of its total crude oil imports came from Kuwait and 49% of 
its gas imports  
were 
from the Gulf region. However, a few factors have attenuated the shock  
resulting from the Iran war
 , as  
V
ietnam  
has reacted swiftly, finding alternative suppliers, introducing measures to contain demand and using its (low) stocks. 
 The country 
produces 70% of its needs for refined products and imports the remainder from Asian countries  
(
though the region’s production is 
dependent on imports from the Gulf countries
 )
. More positively, oil 
 and 
gas account for only 35% of 
 Vietnam
 ’s energy mix (coal: 54% 
and 
renewables: 11%), and the country can part
 ial
 ly switch to coal for electricity generation.  
◼ 
 The potential pass
 -
 through of rising global energy prices to domestic inflation is high. Yet, the government has some fiscal policy 
leeway 
 (
given its moderate deficit and debt ratios
 ) 
and has introduced small measures to contain inflation (
 such as the 
 use of 
 the 
price stabili
 s
ation fund  
and 
 fuel
-
 tax suspension until 
 the 
end 
of 
June). CPI inflation 
 rose to 
4.
4
% 
y/y in 
 the first eight months of 
 2026, 
up from 
 3.
3
% in 
 2025
. 
It is projected to 
 average  
4.
4
% in 2026 
 – 
which is still within  
the 
target 
set by the central bank (S
 B
V) 
for this 
year
, 
but also the highest rate since 2013. This will dampen consumers’ purchasing power. The SBV is projected to keep policy rates  
stable in the 
 short term
 , unless inflation accelerates more than expected or depreciation pressures on the dong intensify too much.

24 September 2026

### Page 3

EcoInsight

economic
 -
 research.bnpparibas.com

3

VIETNAM HAS NOT YET FIXED ITS EXTERNAL LIQUIDITY PROBLEM
, WHICH IS A SOURCE OF VULNERABILITY 
◼ 
 V
ietnam
 ’s trade balance 
 has 
 deteriorated 
 steadily 
 in 2026. It turned in
 to a deficit  
amounting to 
 USD
19 
bn 
in the first eight months of 
2026 
 (customs data)
 , 
 compared to  
 a surplus 
 in the previous year 
 (
amounting to 
 USD
14 
 bn 
 in the first eight months of 2025
 ).  
This 
 rapid deterioration 
 has resulted notably from the ris
 ing 
import prices of both energy and electronic inputs.  
◼ 
 On the one hand, the current account surplus 
 is 
 decreas
 ing, bu
 t from a comfortable level
 . 
It is projected to narrow 
 to 
2.9
% of GDP in 
2026 from 6.7% in 2025, due to  
the larger energy trade deficit (
 which 
 accounted for  
3.6% of GDP in 2025), the larger trade deficit in 
semiconductors/tech goods, and lower export receipts from tourism 
 (about 
 6% of GDP). 
 Furthermore
 , net FDI  
 inflows will remain 
strong,  
staying close to 4% of GDP in 2026
 . 
Therefore, 
 Vietnam is  
unlikely to need to incur new foreign debt.  
◼ 
 On the other hand, V
 ietnam
 ’s forex reserves are low and do not provide a solid cushion  
 against a deterioration 
 in 
 the balance of 
payments
 . Forex reserves amounted to USD8
 8
.
3 
bn at the end of 
 June 2026
 , which is 
 weak: it is 
 enough 
to service external debt in 
the 
 short ter
 m 
 but covers less than 3 months of imports of goods 
 and 
 services. In 
 particular, i
 f 
 resident capital outflows increase 
(residents’ confidence in the dong 
 may 
be eroded by ri
 s
in
g 
inflation and the external energy shock), currency pressure could intensify 
and the central bank could have difficulties to defend the dong. 
 This risk cannot be ignored
 , 
 even 
 though 
 t
he VND has barely 
depreciated 
 this year (
 the 
central 
 reference 
rate has lost a small 2% against the USD since  
the beginning of 2026
 )
.

MEDIUM
-
TERM PROSPECTS ARE FAVO
U
RABLE 
◼ 
 In the medium term, economic growth is expected to remain strong. It is projected at 5.9% per year on average in 2027
 –
2031, 
compared to  
6.2% in the past decade. This is one of the highest growth rates expected in the ASEAN region.  
◼ 
 This  
projection is based on a rather optimistic scenario, as it assumes that:  
i
) FDI continues to flow in, and the manufacturing export sector expands further
 . This 
 means Vietnam’s external accounts 
 continue 
to 
strengthen in the medium term, thanks to continued 
 current account surpluses
 , 
lower resident capital outflows, declining external 
debt and slowly increasing forex reserves
 ; 
ii
) 
D
emographic trends remain 
 favourable
 , even 
 though they 
 are projected to 
 weaken gradually  
in the medium
 -
 long term
 ;  
iii
) 
 Structural r
 eforms make steady progress, helping to improve financial
 -
sector supervision, ease infrastructure constraints in the 
energy and water sectors, boost aggregate productivity (
 i.e. 
 reducing the gap between high
 -
 productivity FDI firms and low
 -
productivity local sectors) and adapt to climate change.

Vietnam’s external trade: exports are rising fast, but 
imports are rising faster

Vietnam’s economy will continue to grow strongly in 
the medium term

Source: National Statistics Office, BNP Paribas  
Source: IMF, BNP Paribas

### Page 4

EcoInsight

economic
 -
 research.bnpparibas.com

4

COUNTRY RISK PROFILE
: STRONG ECONOMIC GROWTH AND LOW PUBLIC 
AND 
FOREIGN DEBT VS. LOW EXTERNAL 
LIQUIDITY AND 
A 
WEAK BANKING SECTOR

◼ 
 Strong factors support 
 Vietnam’s 
 overall country risk  
and economic prospects
 :  
i) 
a 
strong manufacturing export base that is moving up the value chain
 ; 
ii) 
s
olid comparative advantages that continue to attract large FDI inflows
 ; 
iii) 
c
urrent account surpluses and moderate foreign debt
 ; 
iv) 
a 
moderate government debt burden
 ; 
v) 
g
radually improving policy making
 ; 
vi) 
 s
trong medium
 -
 term economic growth prospects, assuming  
 that 
 the authorities will continue to implement structural reforms 
and strengthen productivity in the entire economy.

◼ 
 On the negative side,  
major negative factors continue to fuel some macro
 -
 financial risks:  
i) t
 he excessive domestic debt level of the economy (excluding the government) and fragilities in the banking sector 
 – 
this is a bad 
combination that fuels high credit risks and financial instability risks
 ; 
ii) 
 low forex reserves
 , which 
 have not much strengthened in recent years
 , 
 despite current account surpluses and notably due to 
resident capital flight. Forex reserves do not  
provide good  
protect
ion 
against shocks, while 
 Vietnam 
 is vulnerable to external shocks
 ;  
iii) 
 v
ery high exposure to physical climate risk.  
 C
oastal and river
 -
 delta regions, where population and economic activity are 
concentrated, 
 are 
 highly exposed to sea
 -
 level rise
 s 
and flooding
 .

◼ 
 Non transfer risk and currency risk
 : 
 V
ietnam  
 has enjoyed very 
 favourable  
 external account dynamics in recent years  
 until 2025
 , 
thanks to 
 large FDI inflows
 , 
recurrent 
 current
 -
 account surpluses  
and declining f
 oreign debt (
 which is moderate, at 
 less than  
30% of 
both GDP and exports). 
 This trend 
 has been  
interrupted 
 in 
 2026 
as 
current account surpluses 
 are 
 decreasing
 . Meanwhile
 , 
there is a 
persist
 ent 
 risk of 
 increasing 
 resident capital outflows 
 fuelling  
 some 
 VND 
 depreciation pressure  
 (
w
hereas  
 the potential for foreign 
capital outflows is limited
 )
. 
As 
the forex  
reserve cushion is weak
 , it would 
 not enable the 
 central bank 
 to 
defend the dong for a long 
time 
i
f there is  
severe currency and external liquidity pressure
 . 
However, so far this year, 
 the 
VND/USD spot rate and the reference 
rate 
 (Vietnam has a crawling band FX regime) 
 have depreciated only slightly
 , supported by strong exports and FDI inflows
 .

◼ 
 Sovereign risk
 : 
the government debt burden 
 is moderate and 
 will remain 
 so in the short term, even if the fiscal deficit is projected to 
deteriorate
 . The fiscal deficit could exceed 3% of GDP in 2026 due to support measures in response to the energy shock (estimated at 
less than 1% of GDP in H1 2026), but this will not endanger public
 -
 debt dynamics. Government debt should fall again in 2027 thanks 
to lower deficits and fast GDP growth. Debt was only 30% of GDP in 2025 (vs. 41% in 2019) and interest payments consumed less  
than 5% of fiscal revenue (vs. 7.2% in 2019). The government cover
 s its funding needs mostly in the local bond market, which is 
deepening gradually and not 
 highly 
 exposed to foreign investors. Government debt in foreign currency declined to about 25% of total 
debt in 2025 (vs. 38% in 2019); this is still substantial, but almost all this FC debt 
 is made up  
 of concessional loans from official 
creditors. On the negative front, high credit risks in the state corporate and bank sectors 
 are 
 very large contingent risks for the 
sovereign. Moreover, public investment needs related to climate change and infrastructure development will increase in the 
 medium 
term
.

◼ 
 Systemic credit risk
 : 
Domestic credit to the private sector is too large and still rising (141% of GDP in 2025 vs. 108% in 2019) while 
the banking sector remains poorly capitali
 s
ed. Credit risks and resource misallocation have long been exacerbated by opacity and 
supervision flaws, as well as the use of high credit growth targets to support economic growth (+15% in 2026). In 2022
 –
2023, banks 
faced severe funding stress and asset
 -
 quality deterioration resulting from the property and bond market crisis. The situation has 
recovered gradually since then. In the 
 short term
 , credit risks may increase amid higher energy costs and if  
there is  
a correction in 
the tech cycle. Some banks, especially small private ones, also remain exposed to VND funding risk (whereas banks do not rely  
much 
on 
 foreign
-
 currency 
 financing). Positively, reforms, including stricter capital
 -
 adequacy requirements, continue to be introduced 
gradually 
 in order 
 to improve banks’ creditworthiness (
 the 
 SBV plans to test the removal of credit quotas for the soundest banks 
from 2026).

### Page 5

EcoInsight

economic
 -
 research.bnpparibas.com

5

Economic Research – 
Contacts

### Page 6

EcoInsight

economic
 -
 research.bnpparibas.com

6

---
## Document 253: Eight Reasons Why the Fed Should Raise Rates (2026-09-14)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Eight Reasons Why the Fed Should Raise Rates (2026-09-14).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-09-14
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

The bank
for a changing
world
3
economic-research.bnpparibas.comEcoWeek 26.33 / 14 September 2026EDITORIAL
CHART 1
THE EIGHT REASONS WHY THE FED SHOULD RAISE RATES
1 U.S. productivity gains are significant but attributing them to the AI boom is
premature: see our Chart of the Week from May 27, 2026, United States: Labour
productivity growth set to continue.
The FOMC meeting on September 15–16 is expected to mark a turning point with the Fed’s first rate hike since May 2023.

While there may have been economic reasons to hold off and maintain the status quo until now (some negative signals
on the employment front and some encouraging ones on the inflation front), the conditions for a necessary recalibration
now appear to be in place.
Between the start of the year and September 11, out of a sample
of nearly 90 central banks worldwide, 25 lowered their policy rates
(an average cumulative decrease of 85 basis points), 25 raised them

(an average cumulative increase of 75 basis points), and 36 left them
unchanged. The U.S. Federal Reserve is part of this status quo group,
while the ECB is among the central banks that have raised their rates
(twice). Which is the odd one, the Fed or the ECB? At first glance, the
Fed’s status quo seems harder to explain than the ECB’s rate hike:
U.S. growth and inflation are significantly higher than Eurozone me -
trics. Why would this situation warrant a rate hike in the latter case but

not (yet) in the former? In short, because the Fed has a dual mandate
and, until recently, its focus has been more on the maximum employ -
ment component than on price stability.
Will the Fed continue to diverge from its peers this week, given that
the ECB implemented another rate hike on September 10 th and that
further tightening by the BoJ (September 17 th–18th) is also widely an -
ticipated? And while a status quo from the BoE (which will also meet

on September 17th) is expected, the vote is likely to be close (6-3 ac -
cording to our forecasts, possibly 6-4) and the tone should be hawkish.
In our new base case scenario, we believe the Fed will join the ranks
of the hikers this week: it would no longer wait until December 2026
to begin the (short) cycle of (three) rate hikes (25 bp each) that we
have been anticipating for several months. However, the outcome of
the September 15–16 FOMC meeting remains somewhat uncertain: we

believe the conditions are in place for a monetary policy adjustment.
But will the Fed share the same view?
WHAT HAS HELD THE FED BACK FROM RAISING RATES SO FAR? SOME SIGNS
OF WEAKNESS IN THE LABOUR MARKET AND THE K-SHAPED NATURE OF
GROWTH
This latter is running at a relatively high pace (an average of 2.2% year-
over-year since Q1 2025, double the Eurozone growth rate) but rests
on narrow foundations that are largely dependent on the AI boom. It is

this sector that is driving a large portion of non-residential investment
(with, conversely, equally significant imports). And it is the wealth ef -
fects stemming from the sharp rise in stock market indices—driven by
tech stocks—that largely underpin consumption among the wealthiest
households, while consumption among lower-income households is
struggling, constrained, and affected by the high cost of living.
Strong on the surface but more fragile beneath: this characteristic of

U.S. growth has likely contributed, thus far, to tipping the scales in fa-
vor of the monetary status quo. The aim was to avoid the risk of stalling
the AI engine and exacerbating the financial difficulties of lower-inco -
me households. An idea has also circulated: that this strong growth,
driven by productivity gains (supposedly resulting from the deploy -
ment of AI1), might be disinflationary rather than inflationary.
This theory has not, for the time being, been fully validated by the data:

on the contrary, the AI boom appears to be rather inflationary in the
short term, which should lead the Fed to reconsider its status quo.
The labour market, like economic growth, has both a positive side and a
more worrisome one. The first is characterized by a low unemployment
rate, downwardly oriented over the past few months, a trend which is
expected to continue. The second stems from the volatility and relative
weakness of job gains through July, the downward pressures on labour

supply, and the uncomfortable balance of a situation combining low firing
and low hiring. The Fed has been more sensitive to these vulnerabilities,
in line with its dual mandate.
HIGH INFLATION — THOUGH TRENDING DOWNWARD ACCORDING TO CER-
TAIN ALTERNATIVE MEASURES — AND ANCHORED INFLATION EXPECTA-
TIONS HAVE ALSO HELPED THE FED ADOPT A WAIT-AND-SEE APPROACH.
U.S. inflation is high and has been well above the 2% target for now
six years, according to the most widely used metrics; while alternative

measures are closer to the target (see Chart 1). The trend, drivers, and
composition of inflation also matter. As for its trend, data from June
and July showed a slight downward trend, an encouraging sign further
supported by the stability (no increase) seen in August (3.4% year-on-
year for the headline CPI, with core inflation even edging down slightly
from 2.5% to 2.4% y/y).
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026

Headline CPI inflation
Core CPI inflation
Headline PCE inflation
Core PCE inflation
FRB Dallas trimmed-mean alternative
measure of PCE inflation
FRB Dallas trimmed-mean original measure
of PCE inflation
y/y, %
US inflation metrics: In progress, but still persistently above
the 2% target
SOURCE: BLS, BEA, FRB DALLAS, MACROBOND, BNP PARIBAS

### Page 2

4
economic-research.bnpparibas.comEcoWeek 26.33 / 14 September 2026
The bank
for a changing
world
On the other hand, if we compare inflation with the trend in unit labor
costs—a key driver, as Richard Clarida (former Fed vice chair) 2 points
out—it clearly appears to be trending downward, with further disinfla-
tion on the horizon (see Chart 2).
Finally, in terms of composition, current inflationary pressures stem
largely from the energy supply shock caused by the conflict in Iran.

Such a development does not require an immediate response from
the central bank 3, as long as inflation expectations remain anchored
(which is currently the case) and provided that the inflation spike re -
mains transitory, does not become widespread, and does not trigger
second-round effects (which cannot be taken entirely for granted over
the next few months, given persistent upward pressure on energy
prices combined with resilient U.S. growth).

WHY IS THE MONETARY STATUS QUO NO LONGER TENABLE? THERE ARE AT
LEAST SEVEN REASONS
A combination of factors justifies the Fed raising its policy rates, star -
ting in September. From our perspective, it should have already done
so, given the economic and inflation data.
First, the current environment is completely different and significantly
more favorable than the one that prevailed at the time of the three
insurance rate cuts in late 2025. Undoing this easing alone is justified

today.
Second, the real GDP growth rate is well above its potential pace.
Our 3rd, 4th and 5th points are the following: unemployment is trending
downward, inflation is well above target, and there is a risk that infla-
tion expectations could become unanchored.
Sixth, the balance of risks between the two components of the Fed’s
mandate has shifted: the easing of employment concerns brings the
upward risks to inflation to the forefront.
Seventh, U.S. monetary policy is likely too accommodative — to a de -

gree difficult to assess precisely, given the inability to accurately esti -
mate the neutral rate (which, according to our estimates, falls within a
range of 3.25% to 4.25% in nominal terms).
2 See this Financial Times article: The Key Inflation Signal for Investors (August 19, 2026).
3 See this BIS paper for a recent overview of the debate: Energy Shocks and Inflation: Challenges for Monetary Policy, August 5, 2026.
4 65 months of core PCE inflation overshooting the 2% target.

But it is clear that current high productivity gains are pushing it higher.
A recalibration of monetary policy therefore appears necessary to bring
the Fed Funds target (currently 3.50–3.75%) at least toward the upper
end of our estimate of the neutral rate, or even into restrictive territory.
EIGHTH, THE FED MUST BACK UP ITS WORDS WITH ACTION
Regarding the outcome of the September 15–16 FOMC meeting, Ke -
vin Warsh has not shown willingness to act upon the latest data. He

wants a Fed that is less data-dependent and more guided by under -
lying trends. It is understandable and this shift could happen in the fu-
ture, following the conclusions of the task forces. However, aside from
the fact that Kevin Warsh is not the sole decision-maker, the latest
data for August points towards a rate hike. This is clear in light of the
strong rebound in nonfarm payroll employment. It is also clear regar -
ding inflation, as the monthly change (seasonally adjusted) in the core

CPI (+0.29%) exceeds the trigger threshold we had identified (a “big”
0.2%). In fact, the very persistence of high inflation4, combined with an
economic environment (both domestic and international) that remains
inflationary, argues for a rise in the Fed Funds target.
It would also be a matter of Kevin Warsh walking the talk to reinforce
the credibility of his remarks at Jackson Hole regarding the renewed
firmness of his commitment to ensure price stability. And it would also

be a matter of not adding to the tension and nervousness already pre-
sent in the bond markets, regardless of their origin. If the Fed takes the
markets’ signal into account — as Kevin Warsh seems inclined to do
when he considers that the rise in long-term rates is doing part of the
central bank’s job and when he highlights the reassuring anchoring of
their inflation expectations — then it must raise its policy rates without
further delay. Not only do economic conditions require it, but it is also

a matter of risk management.
Hélène Baudchon
helene.baudchon@bnpparibas.com
SOURCE: BLS, BEA, MACROBOND, BNP PARIBAS
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1965 1975 1985 1995 2005 2015 2025
Unit Labour Costs
Headline PCE inflation
Core PCE inflation
Four-year average of annualised quarterly growth (%)
CHART 2
US: Disinflation looks underway according to the trend in unit
labour costs

---
## Document 269: Fiscal update_ States learning the laws of compound interest (2026-09-25)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Fiscal update_ States learning the laws of compound interest (2026-09-25).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-09-25
Pages: 19
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#fiscalpolicy #australia #aud #inflation #federalbudget
Fiscal update: States learning the laws of compound interest
By Pat Bustamante
Senior Economist, Westpac
16:33 September 23 2026 Share
State budgets remain under pressure. Higher borrowing costs, changes to NDIS funding
arrangements and a sharper-than-expected housing downturn are weighing on state
finances. Offsetting this to some extent, stronger consumer spending and firmer economic
activity are providing a modest revenue boost.

### Page 2

As we previously foreshadowed, a deeper-than-expected downturn in house prices and
turnover, coupled with ongoing above-average construction costs, are set to delay the expected
recovery in the combined state fiscal position. Combined with the global sell-off in sovereign
State budgets are set to deteriorate more than previously expected. The global bond sell-off has
pushed borrowing costs higher, while changes to NDIS funding arrangements are shifting costs to

the states. At the same time, the housing market downturn has been faster and broader than
anticipated, weighing on stamp duty revenue. A firmer household sector and stronger economic
activity will provide some offset. Improved GST revenues will provide some support to state finances
but getting the distribution right could be tricky and there may be a case for additional ‘top up’
payments from the Federal government over and above GST allocations.

Higher bond yields are expected to add around $3.5bn to state interest costs over the next four
years, while weaker housing activity is expected to reduce revenue by around $8-9 billion in FY2027
alone (some of which is already factored in to state budgets). Stronger consumption and a slightly
more resilient labour market are expected to provide a partial offset of around $1.5bn over the next
four years.
The deterioration in the combined state fiscal position of $13.5bn over the next four years will delay

the expected recovery in state finances. It will also push state interest payments to a record high of
$37bn (1.1% of nominal GDP) by FY2030 and lift real (or inflation adjusted) net debt per capita to a
new record level.
Risks to the outlook appear broadly balanced. The conflict in the Middle East presents a downside
risk through higher energy prices and weaker confidence. Offsetting this is the potential for an even
larger investment upswing, driven by data centres and associated energy infrastructure.

### Page 3

bond markets, which has seen yields rise by an average of 60bps since state budgets were
published, we expect the combined state cash position to deteriorate by a further $13.5bn
compared with published 2026 budgets, mainly impacting FY2027. As a result, combined state
interest repayments are expected to increase to a record 1.1% of GDP by FY2030, while net debt
per person will also reach a record high across several states. Firmer economic conditions
provide a partial offset, mainly through higher GST revenue, underscoring the importance of
getting the GST distribution right.

State budgets continue to come under pressure. Higher yields, higher service delivery costs
(particularly construction costs affecting a still-elevated pipeline of projects), the need to deliver more
services for a growing population, and changes in program funding arrangements (most notably the
NDIS) are increasing the cost of doing business for state governments. Meanwhile, the sharper-than-
expected housing downturn is hitting both actual and expected stamp duty revenues (typically the
second-largest source of state government revenue), while the gradual easing in the labour market is
also seeing slower growth in payroll tax receipts. Since our last update, the main changes impacting
state budgets include: higher yields; changing funding arrangements for the NDIS; a sharper-than-
expected housing downturn; and partly offsetting this, firmer consumption and economic activity.

### Page 4

Bond sell-off leaves states paying more
As a result of rising energy prices due to the ongoing conflict in the Middle East, and large fiscal deficits
particularly in the US, there has been a sell-off in sovereign bonds. At the same time, the IT sector has
ramped up issuance of high-quality, higher-yielding investment grade bonds, both overseas and in
Australia. The result has been a broad global rise in bond yields. Across the Australian states, 10-

year bond yields are up around 60bps compared to when states published their 2026-27
budgets.
For states, many of whom have built up large stocks of debt to fund much-needed infrastructure, higher
interest rates directly increase debt-servicing costs. We estimate that interest expenses across the
states will rise by $3.5bn over the four years to FY2030, reaching 1.2% of nominal GDP by FY2030, a
record high.
This estimate takes into account the projected rollover of state debt. If all state debt had to be rolled

over immediately at current yields, interest expenses would increase by around $5bn in a single
year and by around $20bn over four years.
While much of this reflects factors outside the control of state governments, they are not powerless.
The 10-year semis bond spread over AGS ranges from 50 to 80bps across the states, in part reflecting
differences in fiscal positions.

### Page 5

NDIS reforms shift costs and risks to the states
NDIS reforms are expected to deliver significant savings to the Commonwealth, reaching almost 1% of
GDP in the medium term according to the 2026 IGR. However, under the reforms, states will take on
greater responsibility for funding and delivering services for certain groups, beginning with the ‘Thriving
Kids’ program for children with developmental delay and low to moderate support needs. While some

states have already budgeted for these measures, the associated costs are not yet fully reflected
across all state budgets. Further fiscal pressures could emerge if states are required to support
additional cohorts, beyond ‘Thriving Kids’, in the future.
With spending growth assumed to slow sharply from here, the transfer of additional responsibilities
from the Commonwealth to the states suggests the risks to state expenditure remain tilted to the

upside, and budget outcomes to the downside.
Housing downturn cuts state revenues by almost $10bn in FY2027
The downturn in established house prices has been both faster and steeper than initially expected. As
a result, we have revised our house price forecasts lower, reflecting both recent weakness and our
updated interest rate profile. We now expect house prices to fall by around 6% in 2026, resulting in a
peak-to-trough decline of just over 7%. The adjustment is expected to be somewhat larger in Sydney

and Melbourne, where prices are projected to decline by closer to 10%. Turnover is also expected to
record a bigger decline of 24% vs our initial assessment of a 19% fall.

### Page 6

This will weigh on stamp duty revenue, which is typically the second-largest source of state
government revenue, after GST distributions and other Commonwealth transfers. Overall, we
estimate the housing downturn will reduce state revenues by around $9bn in FY2027.
While some of this downside has already been factored into state budgets, jurisdictions that released
budgets before the Federal Budget, including Vic and WA, have yet to fully capture the deterioration in

housing market conditions. Our updated 2026 budget estimates incorporate this downside.
While much of that is a cyclical swing that will partly reverse as an easing in interest rates comes
through in 2028, the tax policy changes mean investor activity is likely to be permanently lower as well.
Our estimates suggest that average annual growth housing turnover could be around 1ppt lower going
forward as a result of weaker investor activity. At current levels, 1% equates to around $400m a year –

not material in any single year, but increasingly significant when compounded over the medium to
longer term.
Firmer economic activity providing some support
On the other side, broader economic activity has held up better than expected. The data centre and
renewable investment surge is supporting GDP, consumption and employment growth, prompting
upgrades to our real economy forecasts. Overall, this should offset around $1.5bn over the next four
years, mainly due to stronger GST receipts, with the firmer labour market also supporting state payroll

tax collections.
Putting it all together
We continue to expect the fiscal impulse to remain mildly supportive in some states, although it is well
below the levels seen in recent years. SA, NSW, WA and Vic continue to receive some support from
state fiscal policy settings (ex-Commonwealth), while the impulse elsewhere is broadly neutral. State
elections due later this year in Vic (November 2026) and next year in NSW (March 2027) may see
some additional fiscal support at the margin in the form of ‘election sweetener’ policies.

### Page 7

Importantly, the public infrastructure cycle has now moved past its peak across most states. While
project pipelines remain elevated in level terms, growth is slowing, particularly in NSW and Vic. Qld
remains the key exception, with infrastructure spending continuing to ramp up ahead of the Brisbane
2032 Olympics.

### Page 8

Despite this, debt continues to accumulate. The combination of higher borrowing requirements and
elevated interest rates is driving a sharp increase in net interest payments, adding to fiscal pressures
over the medium term and reducing budget flexibility.

### Page 9

State interest payments are projected to reach a record $37bn (1.1% of nominal GDP) by FY2030.

### Page 10

Real (or inflation adjusted) net debt per capita is set to reach a record high by the end of the estimates
period (FY2030). However, there are significant differences across the states, with real (or inflation
adjusted) net debt per capita varying considerably by jurisdiction.

### Page 11

Bottom line
Historically governments would keep debt at a lower level relative to state product by periodically
engaging in fiscal consolidation. However, this is much easier to do when economies are posting
robust growth. With growth on the soft side, cost of living issues persisting and additional calls on the
state government purse to supply some fast-growing areas of welfare support the ‘window of
opportunity’ for getting ahead of these fiscal pressures looks significantly smaller.

Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 12

Related articles
Preview of Pre-election Economic & Fiscal Update
September 22 2026 • 10 mins
#fiscalpolicy
By Darren Gibbs

### Page 13

New Zealand Government Budget 2026
May 28 2026 • 10 mins
#fiscalpolicy
By Kelly Eckhold & Michael Gordon
#fiscalpolicy

### Page 14

Preview of New Zealand Budget 2026
May 14 2026 • 3 mins
By Darren Gibbs
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #semigovernment #rba #basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #jpy #rbnz #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

### Page 15

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 16

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 17

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 18

ce ta  ega  ag ee e ts bet ee  estpac a d C  a d ob gat o s o  C  do ot ep ese t
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 19

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 286: Inching towards a Fed ‘credibility’ hike

Source PDF: all report pdf/Inching towards a Fed ‘credibility’ hike.pdf
Report source: 渣打銀行 (Weekly Market Views)
Date: 2026-09-11
Pages: 16
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

WS Global CIO Office 
11 September 2026

Inching towards a 
Fed ‘credibility’ hike

 August’s strong US jobs and 
producer inflation reports mean the Fed 
is likely to hike next week or risk its 
credibility. 
 However, a rate rise is unlikely to be 
the start of a hiking cycle. While higher 
oil prices fuel near-term inflation, 
driving bond yields to multi-year highs, 
we see inflation easing next year as the 
impact of tariffs and oil prices fades. 
 There remains a residual risk that 
the Fed could be reluctant to hike rates 
next week, possibly due to pressure 
from the Trump administration. Any 
such hesitancy could lead to a short-
term sell-off in equities and bonds as 
investors increasingly question the 
Fed’s independence. 
 We would use any market volatility 
to add equities, given the robust 
earnings outlook, and increase bond 
maturities to 3-7 years.  
 Regardless of the Fed decision, we 
are adding semiconductor equities as 
an Opportunistic idea.

Do you see any opportunities 
as rising memory chip prices 
are passed on to consumers? 
Does the latest ECB meeting 
change your outlook on policy 
rates? 
What is the outlook for EUR, 
GBP, JPY amid the latest and 
upcoming policy meetings?

### Page 2

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Charts of the week: Extremely bearish bond positions

Bond investor positioning extremely bearish, should limit yield spike; AI super-cycle gives structural support for equities 
Managed futures positioning in US, Germany, Japan, UK bonds    AI adoption rates in the US

Source: Vanda Research, US Census Bureau, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Editorial 
Inching towards a Fed ‘credibility’ hike 
Strategy summary:  August’s strong US jobs and producer 
inflation reports mean the Fed is most likely to hike next week 
or risk its credibility. However, a rate rise is unlikely to be the 
start of a hiking cycle. While higher oil prices fuel near -term 
inflation, driving bond yields to multi-year highs, we see inflation 
easing next year as the impact of tariffs and oil prices fades.  
There remains a residual risk that the Fed could be reluctant to 
hike rates next week, possibly due to pressure from the Trump 
administration. Any such hesitancy could lead to a short -term 
sell-off in equities and bonds as investors increasingly question 
the Fed’s independence. We would use any market volatility to 
add equities, given the robust earnings outlook, and increase 
bond maturities to 3-7 years. Regardless of the Fed decision, 
we are adding semiconductor equities as an opportunistic idea.  
A resilient job market. Last week, we said the chance of a Fed 
rate hike has risen above 50% after Chair Warsh’s hawkish 
Jackson Hole speech. The two remaining requirements that 
would secure a hike would be: i) a robust jobs report for August, 
followed by ii) an inflation report  showing core inflation at or 
above 0.2% m/m. The first requirement has been met – the US 
economy added 162,000 jobs in August, almost triple 
consensus estimates, with prior two months revised higher.  
Although around 60% of the job gains were in only two sectors 
– leisure & hospitality and government – and average hourly 
earnings continued its slide to a five-year low of 3.1% y/y, the 
crucial unemployment rate remained steady at 4.1% as labour 
force participation rate rose. The unemployment rate sugges ts 
the US economy is running at full employment. Meanwhile, US 
headline and core producer inflation accelerated in August. 
Inching towards a Fed ‘credibility’ hike:  A 25bps Fed hike 
next week now looks most likely. The only caveat to this outlook 
would be an underwhelmingly soft inflation report for August 
due tonight. With Fed Chair Warsh already characterising the 
current US policy rate of 3.75% as not restrictive, any failure to 
hike, due to pressure from the administration, would hurt the 
Fed’s credibility, impacting equities and bonds. The US 10-year 
yield surged this week 19bps to a three-year high of 4.97%.  
Extremely bearish positioning to limit bond yield upside:  
The US 10-year bond yield faces a major resistance level – 
2023 high of 5.02%. Moreover, investor positioning is extremely 
bearish (CTA short positions at record). Also, current yields are 
uncomfortably close to the “Trump put” levels. Authorities have 
several regulatory and bond supply and liquidity management 
tools to cap yields, at least in the near term. This implies limited 
scope for further upside in medium-to-long-term yields.  
Key risks: i) if the Fed holds next week, we see further near -
term sell-off on doubts about the Fed's independence, with the 
10-year yield  breaking above 5.02% briefly. ii) further oil  
spike. However, extreme positioning should still limit any bond 
yield upside. As such, we see the yield rise as an opportunity 
to raise maturity of bond allocations to 3- 7 years, 
preferring corporate bonds.  Longer-maturity bonds remain 
vulnerable to oil-driven inflation expectation and fiscal risks.  
Adding one more ECB rate hike after hawkish outlook: The 
ECB raised its deposit rate 25bps to 2.5%, as expected, and 
upgraded its growth and inflation forecasts for the coming 
years, citing a resilient economy and higher energy prices . 
President Lagarde was decidedly hawkish, while declining to 
commit to another hike.  The upgraded inflation forecasts, 
Lagarde’s comments and recent surge in gas prices lead us to 
add one more 25bps rate hike by year end (see page 8). 
Tactically adding semiconductor equities; using volatility 
to buy on dips:  This week’s softness in equity markets  was 
mainly driven higher oil prices and bond yields. We would use 
any volatility to add equities, especially in the US and Asia-ex -
Japan, where the corporate earnings outlook remains robust. In 
fact, we are using the weakness in semiconductor equities to 
add tactical exposure (see page 4 for more details). 
—  Rajat Bhattacharya  
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
800
Jan-10 Mar-14 May-18 Jul-22 Sep-26
USD (bn)
Total CTA DV01 exposure across G4 FI futures
3.7%
6.1%
17.3%
25.1%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
Q4 2023 Q4 2024 Q4 2025 Q4 2026E

### Page 3

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

The weekly macro balance sheet 
Our weekly net assessment: On balance, we see the past week’s data 
and policy as negative for risk assets in the near-term 
(+) factors: Stronger Euro area sentiment, dovish RBA 
(-) factors: Hawkish ECB, Middle East geopolitical tensions

Positive for risk assets Negative for risk assets 
Macro data 
• Euro area Sentix Investor 
Confidence rose 
unexpectedly to 5.1 in 
September 
• China consumer price 
inflation was in line with 
estimates at 0.8% y/y 
• US headline and core 
producer inflation 
accelerated to 5.4% and 
4.6% y/y, respectively 
• US NFIB small business 
optimism index fell to 98.7 
in August, below estimates  
• China import and export 
growth missed estimates 
at 28.2% and 25% y/y, 
respectively, in August 
• China producer price 
inflation rose by 3.8% y/y 
in August, above estimates 
Our assessment: Neutral – Stronger Euro area sentiment vs. 
softer-than-expected US business optimism and weak China 
trade activity 
Policy  
developments • RBA Deputy Governor 
Hauser and Assistant 
Governor Hunter both 
signaled uncertainty on 
further rate hikes  
• ECB raised its key interest 
rates by 25 bps as 
expected and hints at hike 
in subsequent meeting 
Our assessment: Neutral – Hawkish ECB, Dovish RBA 
Other 
developments 
• Iran reportedly nearing a 
deal with Oman to manage 
shipping through Strait of 
Hormuz 
• President Trump 
intensified pressure on the 
Fed Reserve to cut rates, 
threatening trade 
restrictions against 
economies with which the 
US runs a deficit if the Fed 
did not act 
• US and Iran trade attacks 
in Middle East conflict; 
Houthis attacked Saudi 
energy infrastructure  
Our assessment: Negative – Ongoing geopolitical tensions, 
political pressure on Fed to cut rates

US small business optimism, hiring plans and 
inflation expectations appear to have peaked lately 
US small business optimism index; indices for hiring 
plans and ‘inflation single-most important problem’

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Euro area investor confidence has picked up lately 
Euro area Sentix Investor Confidence

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

China's producer inflation remained elevated due 
to imported commodity prices, but consumer 
inflation remained subdued 
China’s producer and consumer price inflation

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

98.7
17.0
31.0
0
15
30
45
60
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
Sep-21 May-23 Jan-25 Sep-26
Index
Index
NFIB Small business optimism
NFIB Hiring Plans
NFIB Inflation
5.1
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
Oct-23 Oct-24 Oct-25 Oct-26
% y/y
Euro area Sentix investor confidence
3.8
0.8
-4.5
-3.0
-1.5
0.0
1.5
3.0
4.5
Aug-23 Aug-24 Aug-25 Aug-26
%
China producer price index (y/y)
China consumer price index (y/y)

### Page 4

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Top client questions 
  Do you see any  opportunities for investors as rising 
memory chip prices are passed on to consumers? 
Our view: W ithin technology, we prefer semiconductors over 
hardware. We are initiating an Opportunistic idea on global 
semiconductors on the back of sustained AI infrastructure 
spend and attractive valuations. 
Rationale: Rising memory costs have contributed to higher PC and 
smartphone prices, yet hardware manufacturers have been unable 
to fully pass these costs on to consumers, resulting in continued 
margin pressure . In contrast, memory fundamentals remain 
supported by tight supply conditions and long-term agreements. That 
said, memory remains inherently cyclical and volatile, and investors 
should right-size their exposure to the industry appropriately.  
Looking more broadly at semiconductors, earnings growth continues 
to be supported by ongoing AI infrastructure spend and broadening 
AI adoption, with US AI adoption expected to reach 25.1% in Q4. 
The r esults season reaffirmed strong demand trends for 
semiconductors, while guidance points to persistent tightness in 
supply. The industry trades at around 16x forward earnings, below 
its five -year average of around 20x , despite the  strong growth 
outlook. We view the pullback in valuations as an attractive entry 
point and initiate an Opportunistic idea on global semiconductors.  
—  Ryan Goh, Investment Strategist 
  Does debt -funded AI capex pose a downgrade risk for 
hyperscalers? Does it create a material overhang for Developed 
Market (DM) investment-grade (IG) corporate bonds? 
Our view: Rating agencies do not assess credit quality on 
leverage metrics alone; they  look through the business cycle . 
DM IG corporate bond spreads could disperse across sectors.  
Rationale: The picture is mixed across hyperscalers, but the trend 
uniformly points to tighter credit headroom. Rating agencies do not 
assess credit quality on leverage metrics alone. Rather, they look 
through the business cycle, weighing capex intensity  against 
earnings trajectory and demand durability over a multi-year horizon. 
Currently, leading rating agencies expect hyperscaler leverage to 
peak around 2027, followed by deleveraging as capex subsides and 
earnings continue growing. That said, the downgrade risk could 
rise if deleveraging is delayed , demand weakens or idiosyncratic 
issues emerge, such as the use of unconventional, off-balance-sheet 
circular financing structures that obscure true leverage. 
For DM IG corporate bonds, the bias is broadly negative, driven by 
supply indigestion from heavy AI-related issuance, downgrade risk 
and index concentration distortion as a few large issuers dominate 
benchmark weightings. However, we do not expect a uniform sell-
off. Spreads could disperse across sectors , with AI capex-heavy 
sectors most likely to stay structurally wide. 
—  Cedric Lam, Senior Investment Strategist

Global semiconductor valuations have become 
more attractive amid continued AI-driven earnings 
growth 
Global semiconductors 12-month forward price-to-
earnings (P/E) ratio

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Hyperscalers’ bond issuance represents a growing 
proportion of US IG bonds 
Percentage of hyperscalers’ bond issuance against 
US IG bonds

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

15.8
20.1
16.8
23.4
10
15
20
25
30
Sep-21 May-23 Jan-25 Sep-26
P/E (x)
Forward P/E Ave +/-1x stdev
9.0%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
YTD

### Page 5

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  Will long-dated  US government bond yields  rise further 
following the US Treasury’s first expanded bond buyback? 
Our view: The bond buyback should flatten the US yield curve, 
but is unlikely to mark a structural shift. Given higher yields, we 
cautiously extend duration and favour the 3-7-year segment. 
Rationale: The US Treasury said it will purchase up to USD 6bn of 
longer-dated government debt  in the first operation under an 
expanded buyback programme.  However, bond markets remain  
underwhelmed, with investors viewing the scale of repurchases as 
insufficient relative to broader market expectations  and the sheer 
volume of outstanding long-term debt. As a result, y ields have 
continued their upward trajectory, with the US 10-year yield hitting 
a three-year high near 4.96% and the 30-year yield rising to 5.37%, 
suggesting markets are not yet convinced that the buyback  will 
materially shift the supply-demand balance for long-duration debt. 
Mechanically, funding long-end purchases via increased T reasury-
bill issuance introduces a flattening impulse to the yield curve. Still, 
we view this as a liquidity management tool rather than a 
structural pivot. We, therefore, do not expect it to be the dominant 
catalyst for a significant or sustained decline in long-term yields. 
Compounding matters, crude oil prices breaching USD 100/bbl will 
revive inflation concerns , likely  reinforcing a ‘higher-for-longer’ 
policy stance and offsetting the buyback's marginal relief. Against, 
this backdrop, w e advocate maintaining a defensive duration 
posture. Given higher yields, we cautiously extend duration  and 
favour the 3-7 year maturity bucket as inflation risks and heavy debt 
supply are keeping upward pressure on long-term yields near term. 
—  Cedric Lam, Senior Investment Strategist 
  Where is the RBA headed on interest rates, and what does 
it mean for the AUD and AUD bonds? 
Our view: We see a rising probability of a September RBA rate  
hike, but a second hike in November is not our base case. 
Rationale: The RBA remains focused on inflation, having already 
hiked its policy rate three times in 2026 – the most of any G7 central 
bank. Beyond a stronger -than-expected July CPI print, strong 
business investment and a tight labour market  continue to reinforce 
the case for further tightening. A further hike is now more likely than 
we previously expected, but back-to-back hikes is not our base case.  
Meanwhile, AUD/USD has risen to the 0.72 level, and the Australia 
10-year government bond yield has climbed over 70bps over the 
past six months, with the move accelerat ing sharply since late 
August as rate-hike expectations surged. We expect both the AUD 
and bond yields to remain within their recent range, as the hawkish 
policy shift has largely already been priced in by markets. 
—  Cedric Lam, Senior Investment Strategist

US government bond yields have approached 
multi-year highs 
US government bond yield curve (%)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

We expect the AUD and the Australia 10-year 
government bond yield to remain rangebound, as 
the hawkish RBA policy shift is largely priced in 
Australia monthly CPI y/y, AUD/USD and Australia 10-
year government bond yield

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

4.96
5.37
3.75
0
2
4
6
8
Jan-00 Nov-08 Sep-17 Jul-26
%
10Y UST 30Y UST Fed fund rate
2
3
4
5
6
0.60
0.65
0.70
0.75
0.80
Apr-25 Sep-25 Feb-26 Jul-26
%
AUD/USD
CPI monthly yoy AUD/USD 10Y ACGB

### Page 6

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  How does the JPY appreciation affect your view on Japan 
equities and key sectors? 
Our view: Japan equities remain a Core holding, with Japan 
financials as our preferred sector. 
Rationale: The JPY  appreciation sharpens the earnings 
divergence between domestically oriented sectors and exporters, 
given the significant share of overseas revenues across corporate 
Japan. Our preferred financial sector generates c.60% of its 
revenue domestically and stands to benefit from ongoing BoJ policy 
normalisation through wider net interest margins. Other domestic-
demand sectors, including services and construction, face limited 
currency-translation headwinds and should benefit from stronger 
wage growth and improved cost pass -through. Within technology, 
the semiconductor supply chain remains attractive, given Japan's 
strong global market position  and pricing power amid structural AI 
demand, offsetting the sector's c.78% overseas revenue exposure. 
Conversely, healthcare has limited domestic offsets to absorb the 
JPY strength, while it has the highest overseas revenue exposure at 
c.80%. Similarly, autos  are vulnerable, facing headwinds from 
currency appreciation, tariff pressures and intensifying competition. 
—  Jason Wong, Senior Equity Analyst 
  Is there a risk of further oil price rise? How do we hedge it? 
Our view: We forecast WTI oil at USD 90/bbl in three months, 
but risks are skewed to the upside.  US Treasury Inflation -
protected Securities (TIPS) remain our preferred hedge. 
Rationale: Three developments would lead us to revise our 
forecast higher, with the first two already in motion: (1) A prolonged 
disruption to Gulf exports that accelerates global oil inventory 
draws. US crude oil stocks are visibly thinner,  trending below their 
five-year range. 
(2) Lasting damage to production or export infrastructure.  
Recent strikes on Saudi energy assets raise concerns more about 
the resilience of alternative export routes than about immediate 
production losses. Tighter US action against Iran- linked tankers 
could further constrain flows. (3) Stronger-than-expected demand 
that accelerates the tightening of physical balances. China appears 
to have resumed buying. Conversely, a credible normalisation in the 
Middle East remains the largest downside risk. With gasoline around 
USD 5 per gallon, the US administration has a clear incentive to 
facilitate a normalisation before the November US midterm elections. 
We prefer to hedge upside oil risk at the portfolio level rather than 
through outright oil -sensitive exposure, with US TIPS being our 
preferred route against higher headline inflation. 
—  Anthony Naab, CFA, Investment Strategist

Our preferred Japan financial sector generates 
c.60% of its revenue domestically and stands to 
benefit from ongoing BoJ policy normalisation 
through wider net interest margins 
Domestic and overseas revenue exposure by MSCI 
Japan sectors 
 Domestic Overseas 
MSCI Japan 43.4 56.6 
Health Care 21.3 78.7 
Technology 21.7 78.3 
Discretionary 30.9 69.1 
Materials 36.4 63.6 
Staples 37.4 62.6 
Industrials 46.9 53.1 
Energy 54.9 45.1 
Financials 58.6 41.4 
Communication 75.8 24.2 
Real Estate 90.2 9.8 
Utilities 95.0 5.0 
Source: FactSet, Standard Chartered

US crude oil stocks have fallen below their five-
year average 
Total US crude oil stocks (w/w), year-to-date (YTD) 
2021-26

Source: EIA, Standard Chartered

711.1
650
750
850
950
1,050
1,150
W1
W4
W7
W10
W13
W16
W19
W22
W25
W28
W31
W34
W37
W40
W43
W46
W49
W52
million barrels
Range 2026 5 yr Avg

### Page 7

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  What is your outlook for the EUR, GBP and JPY against 
the backdrop of this month’s central bank policy meetings? 
Our view:  EUR/USD is supported by the ECB's  monetary 
tightening path, but an increasingly likely Fed hike could limit 
its near-term upside. The JPY is likely  relatively strong as w e 
expect the BoJ to catch up with rate hikes. Meanwhile, the GBP 
remains vulnerable amid  uncertainty around  the UK’s 
upcoming Autumn Budget.  
Rationale: The ECB hiked rates by 25bps to 2.5% as expected , 
with the market now pricing in another hike in December. Euro area 
annual consumer inflation rose to 3.3% in August  – the highest 
in nearly three years  – driven by energy pass -through from the 
Middle East conflict. The ECB also raised its 2027 growth forecast 
to 1.4% from 1.2%, headline inflation forecast to 2.5% from 2.3% and 
core inflation forecast to 2.6% from 2.5%. Greater economic 
resilience and persistent underlying inflation leave the ECB open 
to another hike.  However, wage growth moderated to 3.3% in Q2 
(from 3.5%), approaching the ECB's c.3% compatibility threshold, 
which could temper the pace of subsequent hikes. We see gradual 
upside risk for EUR/USD, with resistance at 1.18 in the coming 
weeks, although a Fed hike could delay a sustained break higher. 
We now  see a Fed hike as increasingly likely next week , 
especially if core consumer price inflation rises by at least 0.2% m/m. 
August producer price inflation came in higher than expected. Firm 
WTI oil prices above USD 100/bbl increase the risk of higher 
inflation and inflation expectations  in the months ahead. A hike, or 
guidance signalling further tightening, would support the USD, 
limiting the extent of EUR, JPY and GBP gains against it. We expect 
the USD Index (DXY) to be capped near 99.8. 
The USD/JPY repricing reinforces our concern about  BoJ policy 
normalisation. Downside risks towards 150-152 remain significant, 
but a Fed hike and  still-large US -Japan yield and growth 
differentials should provide some support. A cautious BoJ message 
could trigger a rebound, particularly after the recent sharp 
adjustment. We expect one hike next week, followed by another  in 
Q4 (likely in December) and potentially one each in Q1 and Q2 2027. 
BoE Governor Bailey has  previously resisted calls for immediate 
tightening, preferring greater clarity on second- round inflation 
effects. However, delayed energy price pass-through  and rising 
food prices are likely to push UK inflation  higher. While renewed 
rate hike expectations provide a structural underpinning for the GBP, 
the BoE's cautious stance relative to the ECB  and the UK 
Autumn Budget uncertainty  remain significant headwinds. We 
expect GBP/USD to remain rangebound, with a bearish bias near 
1.34. Above all, we see some upside potential in EUR/GBP.  
—  Vincent Tan, Senior Investment Strategist  
—  Iris Yuen, Investment Strategist

USD (DXY) index upside risk is likely limited 
DXY and technicals

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

USD/JPY faces downside risks, with the support 
zone at 150-152 
USD/JPY and technicals

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

98.8
100.0
99.8
99.1
95
97
99
101
103
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
DXY
DXY 50-DMA
100-DMA 200-DMA
153.5
160.0
159.7
158.4
145
150
155
160
165
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
USD/JPY
USD/JPY 50-DMA
100-DMA 200-DMA

### Page 8

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  Does the latest ECB meeting change your outlook on 
policy rates? 
Our view: The ECB raised its deposit rate by 25bps for the 
second time this year, taking it to 2.5%, in line with our 
expectations coming into this meeting. Given the new ECB staff 
projections that show higher inflation and stronger growth over 
the next couple of years, as well as ECB President Lagarde’s 
hawkish remarks at the press conference,  we are now 
projecting another deposit rate hike to 2.75% before year end.  
Rationale: The ECB cited the ongoing Middle East conflict as the 
primary driver of renewed inflationary pressure, with energy price 
shocks feeding through to broader price levels. The central bank 
stated that inflation will likely remain above 2%  for an "extended 
period," and updated staff projections revised inflation higher for 
2027 and 2028, with the 2028 inflation forecast now at 2.1%, slightly 
above the ECB's 2% target. 
ECB President Lagarde described this week’s hike as a "no brainer," 
with the decision bolstered by stronger inflation and growth 
projections. Key points from the press conference include: 
• The ECB is not pre- committing to a particular rate path , 
reiterating a meeting-by-meeting, data-dependent approach.  
• Lagarde noted that the Governing Council did not discuss 
future meetings , though the upward revision to the inflation and 
growth outlook has shifted the balance towards further tightening.  
• The hawks within the Governing Council appear to be 
winning the internal debate and would prefer to continue hiking, with 
the deposit rate potentially rising to at least 2.75%. 
• The Euro area economy's surprising resilience  was 
acknowledged as a factor supporting the decision.  
• Core inflation remains above 2%  through the end of the 
forecast horizon, a signal that the ECB does not view the current 
tightening cycle as complete. 
“Framework” guidance and market implications:  The hawkish 
shift in the  ECB’s updated projections and Lagarde’s decidedly 
hawkish comments lead us to expect another 25bps hike by 
December. The central bank's "meeting-by-meeting" stance means 
future decisions will be heavily influenced by incoming energy price 
data, second- round inflation effects and labour market 
developments. With seemingly no peace solution likely on the 
horizon in the Middle East, risks could continue to skew to the 
upside for policy rates as we head into 2027.  
—  Jonathan Liang, CFA, CIO for Fixed Income and FX

The new ECB staff projections show higher 
inflation and stronger growth over the next couple 
of years 
ECB staff macroeconomic projections for the Euro 
area (% y/y) 
  Jun 2026  Sep 2026  
Growth 
2026 0.8 0.9 
2027 1.2 1.4 
2028 1.5 1.5 
Headline 
inflation 
2026 3.0 3.0 
2027 2.3 2.5 
2028 2.0 2.1 
Core 
inflation 
2026 2.5 2.5 
2027 2.5 2.6 
2028 2.2 2.3 
Source: European Central Bank, Standard Chartered

### Page 9

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Market performance summary*

Sources: MSCI, JP Morgan, Barclays Capital, Citigroup, Dow Jones, HFRX, FTSE, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
*Performance in USD terms unless otherwise stated, 2026 YTD performance from 31 December 2025 to 10 September 2026; 1-week period: 3 
September 2026 to 10 September 2026 
0.3%
-0.1%
0.0%
-0.1%
0.0%
2.8%
0.3%
8.7%
-1.0%
-3.1%
12.7%
-3.5%
0.0%
-0.1%
-0.7%
0.0%
-0.3%
-1.4%
-0.6%
0.9%
-0.1%
-0.1%
-0.5%
-0.4%
-0.6%
-0.5%
-0.8%
0.1%
-0.2%
-0.7%
-0.8%
-0.8%
-0.6%
-2.1%
-0.3%
-0.6%
-2.5%
0.3%
-1.5%
-4.6%
-2.3%
0.8%
-2.0%
-3.3%
3.5%
9.8%
-2.4%
-1.1%
0.5%
0.1%
1.7%
-2.0%
2.7%
-2.0%
0.3%
-0.6%
-2.0%
-2.0%
-2.0%
2.5%
-1.9%
-2.2%
-1.4%
-10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15%
1 Week
6.2%
7.7%
2.4%
1.6%
4.4%
37.6%
21.3%
86.2%
9.6%
-2.5%
78.6%
0.0%
1.4%
1.4%
-2.5%
3.8%
-0.8%
0.7%
7.3%
1.5%
0.3%
-1.1%
0.1%
0.3%
2.0%
1.9%
-1.4%
-4.1%
2.0%
0.5%
-3.0%
-1.4%
-1.0%
7.0%
4.1%
-1.1%
15.2%
30.1%
10.9%
4.1%
11.2%
39.4%
4.4%
-6.2%
68.3%
104.4%
-11.1%
-10.6%
6.3%
19.9%
31.2%
5.8%
27.8%
10.4%
23.0%
20.8%
8.7%
9.7%
11.5%
26.0%
11.7%
16.3%
13.3%
-40% -20% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%120%
Macro CTAs
Equity Long/Short
Event Driven
Relative Value
Composite (All strategies)
Diversified Commodity
Agriculture
Energy
Industrial Metal
Precious Metal
Crude Oil
Gold
Asia ex-Japan
SGD
CHF
CNH
CAD
NZD
AUD
JPY
GBP
EUR
Asia HC
Europe High Yield
US High Yield
DM High Yield Corporates
DM IG Corporates
Asia EM LC
EM Sovereign LC
EM Sovereign HC
EU Sovereign
US Sovereign
DM IG Sovereign
Global Property Equity/REITs
Utilities
Communication Services
Materials
IT
Industrial
Healthcare
Financial
Energy
Consumer Staples
Consumer Discretionary
Taiwan
South Korea
India
China
Middle East
Latam
Eastern Europe
Africa
Asia ex-Japan
United Kingdom
Japan (USD)
Japan (Local)
Western Europe (USD)
Western Europe (Local)
US
Emerging Markets (EM)
Developed Markets (DM)
Global High Divi Yield Equities
Global Equities
Year to Date
Bonds | Credit
Equity | Country & Region
Bonds | Sovereign
Alternatives
FX (against USD)
Equity | Sector
Commodity

### Page 10

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

Our 12-month asset class views at a glance 
Asset class 
Equities ▲  Preferred Sectors  
US ▲  US Technology ▲ 
Europe ex-UK ◆  US Communication  ▲ 
UK ▼  US Financials  ▲ 
Asia ex-Japan ▲  Europe ex-UK Financials ▲ 
Japan ◆  Europe ex-UK Industrials ▲ 
Other EM ◆  Japan Financials ▲ 
   China Communication ▲ 
Bonds ◆  China Technology ▲

Credit   Govt  
Asia USD ◆  Govt EM Local ◆ 
Corp DM HY ◆  Govt DM IG ▼ 
Govt EM USD ▲    
Corp DM IG ◆  Alternatives ◆

Gold ▲

Source: Standard Chartered Global Investment Committee 
Legend:  ▲ Most preferred  |  ▼ Less preferred  |  ◆ Core holding

Economic and market calendar 
 Market Event Period Expected Prior

MON

TUE 
CNH Retail Sales y/y Aug 0.9% 0.6% 
CNH Industrial Production y/y Aug 4.8% 4.5% 
CNH Fixed Assets Ex Rural 
YTD y/y Aug -7.1% -6.7% 
CNH Property Investment 
YTD y/y Aug -20.1% -19.2% 
EUR ZEW Survey Expectations Sep – 31.4 
USD Empire Manufacturing Sep 12.1 20.6

WED 
USD Import Price Index y/y Aug – 5.9% 
USD Retail Sales Ex Auto & Gas Aug 0.4% -0.2% 
USD FOMC Rate Decision 
(Upper Bound) 16-Sep 3.75% 3.75% 
USD FOMC Rate Decision 
(Lower Bound) 16-Sep 3.5% 3.5%

THU 
EUR CPI y/y Aug F – 3.3% 
EUR CPI Core y/y Aug F – 2.4% 
GBP Bank of England Bank Rate 17-Sep 3.8% 3.8% 
USD Philadelphia Fed 
Business Outlook Sep 32.1 47.4

FRI/ 
SAT 
JPY BoJ Target Rate 18-Sep 1.3% 1.0%

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
Prior data are for the preceding period unless otherwise indicated. Data 
are % change on previous period unless otherwise indicated 
P - preliminary data, F - final data, sa - seasonally adjusted, y/y - year-
on-year, m/m - month-on-month

The S&P500 has next interim resistance at 7,746 
Technical indicators for key markets as of 10 Sep close

Index Spot 
1st 
support 
1st 
resis-
tance 
12m 
forward 
P/E (x) 
12m 
forward 
dividend 
yield (%) 
S&P 500 7,592 7,509 7,746 19.1  1.2  
STOXX 50 6,269 6,162 6,477 14.7  3.2  
FTSE 100 10,609 10,495 10,821 12.6  3.5  
TOPIX 4,055 3,967 4,181 15.8  2.3  
Shanghai Comp 3,934 3,858 4,003 12.9  3.1  
Hang Seng 24,954 24,543 25,713 10.5  3.4  
Nifty 50 23,478 23,046 24,243 17.6  1.9  
MSCI Asia  
ex-Japan 1,152 1,109 1,184 10.2  2.4  
MSCI EM 1,745 1,681 1,789 10.0  2.7  
Crude oil (WTI) 102.5 86.7 111.1 na na 
Gold 4,318 4,168 4,582 na na 
UST 10Y Yield 4.96 4.73 5.08 na na 
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
Note: These short-term technical levels are based on models and may 
differ from a more qualitative analysis provided in other pages

Investor diversity has normalised across asset classes 
Our proprietary market diversity indicators as of 10 Sep close 
Level 1 Diversity 
1-month 
trend 
Fractal 
dimension 
Global Bonds ●  1.54 
Global Equities ●  1.57 
Gold ●  1.81 
Equity     
MSCI US ●  1.63 
MSCI Europe ●  1.54 
MSCI AC AXJ ●  1.69 
Fixed Income     
DM Corp Bond ●  1.52 
DM High Yield ●  1.91 
EM USD ●  1.69 
EM Local ◐  1.39 
Asia USD ●  1.72 
Currencies     
EUR/USD ●  1.84

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; Fractal dimensions below 
1.25 indicate extremely low market diversity/high risk of a reversal 
Legend:  ● High  |  ◐ Low to mid  |  ○ Critically low

### Page 11

Market views on-the-go 
MVOG

SC Wealth Insights 
Find out more

YouTube

Facebook

LinkedIn

PvB LinkedIn

SC Money 
Insights 
4 podcasts shows on Spotify 
and Apple platforms

Spotify

Apple Podcasts

Speak to your Relationship Manager/Investment Advisor today for access to our security specific publications.

Access our views 24/7 on key platforms

P968C T
P978C2T P98 C6T
P988C3T P99 C7T
P998C3T
P 0 C3 P 0 5C7

### Page 12

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

12

### Page 13

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

13

### Page 14

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

14

### Page 15

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

15

### Page 16

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 11 September 2026

16

provide financial services only to clients who qualify as Professional Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail Cl ients. As 
a Professional Client you will not be given the higher retail client protection and compensation rights and if you use your right to be 
classified as a Retail Client we will be unable to provide financial services and products to you as we do not hold the required license 
to undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shari ah Supervisory Committee. 
Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank website in the 
Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by th e Central Bank of the 
U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide financial 
analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodit ies Authority Decision No. 
48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis. Uganda: Our Investment products and services are distributed 
by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an investment adviser. United 
Kingdom: In the UK, Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. This communication has been approved by Standard Chartered Bank for the 
purposes of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 
2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Global Private Bank) is also an authorised financial services 
provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials 
have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal r equirements designed to promote the independence of investment research, 
and that it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research. V ietnam: This document 
is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulat ed by 
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited for any queries 
regarding any content of this document. Zambia: This document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company 
incorporated in Zambia and registered as a commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial  
Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws of Zambia.

---
## Document 332: Rising risk of a Fed rate hike

Source PDF: all report pdf/Rising risk of a Fed rate hike.pdf
Report source: 渣打銀行 (Weekly Market Views)
Date: 2026-09-04
Pages: 14
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

WS Global CIO Office 
4 September 2026

Rising risk of 
a Fed rate hike

 Fed Chair Warsh has raised the 
chance of a rate hike this year, 
potentially as early as this month if 
August payrolls remain resilient and if 
there is no clear sign of disinflation. 
 However, we see little scope for 
multiple hikes, given our view that 
disinflation is likely to continue into next 
year as the impact of tariffs and high oil 
prices fades. 
 Thus, any such ‘defensive’ rate hike 
is likely to be neutral for equity and 
bond markets, which are already partly 
anticipating one. 
 We would adopt a ‘buy on dips’ 
strategy for equities on any seasonal or 
pre-election volatility spike amid a 
robust earnings outlook.  
 In bonds, we gradually extend the 
maturity profile to 3-7 years, preferring 
corporate credit, as yields in this 
segment have risen to attractive levels. 
In FX, AUD is our preferred currency 
amid rising global rates as markets 
underestimate the scope of further RBA 
rate hikes.

Is it time to take profit in 
Taiwan equities? 
Do you expect the US 30-year 
bond yield to break above its 
20-year high of 5.4%? 
Which currencies stand to 
benefit the most from hawkish 
central banks?

### Page 2

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

Charts of the week: Contained bond volatility, robust earnings

As long as US bond market volatility remains contained, the equity rally is likely to continue amid robust earnings growth  
S&P500 index, US bond market volatility (inverted)    Consensus estimates for S&P500 earnings and revenue growth

Source: Bloomberg, LSEG I/B/E/S, Standard Chartered

Editorial 
Rising risk of a Fed rate hike 
Strategy summary: Fed Chair Warsh has raised the chance of 
a rate hike this year, potentially as early as this month if August 
payrolls remain resilient and if there is no clear sign of 
disinflation. However, we see little scope for multiple hikes, 
given our view that disinflation is likely to continue into next year 
as the impact of tariffs and high oil prices fade. Thus, any such 
‘defensive’ rate hike is likely to be neutral for equity and bond 
markets which are already partly anticipating one.   
We would adopt a ‘buy on dips’ strategy for equities on any 
seasonal or pre-election volatility spike amid a robust earnings 
outlook. In bonds, we gradually extend the maturity profile to 3-
7 years as yields in this segment have risen to attractive levels.   
Setting the stage for a Fed hike: At Jackson Hole, Fed Chair 
Warsh opened the door to a potential rate hike, noting that rates 
are not restrictive, employment remains near full and underlying 
inflation is still elevated. We see just over 50% chance of a rate 
hike, potentially on 16 September, if key US data before then 
are supportive – specifically, if August payrolls are positive, 
unemployment stays near 4.1% and core inflation is at least 
0.2% m/m. If these conditions are met, not hiking could trigger 
another long- end bond selloff and undermine Warsh’s 
credibility. Meanwhile, a rate hike under these conditions is 
likely to have limited market impact, as money markets are 
already pricing over 50% chance of September hike. 
Alternative scenario: Conversely, another month of negative 
payrolls in August or core inflation cooling below 0.2% m/m 
would allow neutral -to-dovish Fed members to push back 
against a rate hike this month. In that case, December would 
be the next stop for reassessment ; a rate hike in October, 
weeks before the November mid-term elections, is unlikely. 
Little scope for multiple hikes:  Even if the Fed delivers a 
‘defensive’ hike this year, we see little scope for further 
increases as US inflation should ease towards the 2% target 
next year when tariff and oil-price effects fade. New York Fed 
President Williams and Governor Waller’s refusal to pre-commit 
to a September or a future hike underscores the disinflationary 
outlook. Also, multiple rate rises could prove counterproductive 
by lifting already record US government borrowing costs as the 
Treasury continues to shorten maturities of its bond issues. 
Gradually extend maturity in bonds: The latest rise in short-
to-medium term bond yields is thus an opportunity to gradually 
extend maturities in bonds, given our outlook for disinflation and 
limited upside for policy rates. We extend our preferred maturity 
bucket to 3-7 years from 3- 5 years. We continue to prefer 
corporate bonds, where we are comfortable in going down to 
BB-rated USD-denominated credit, which offer 6.5-7.5% yield. 
Buying any September dip in equities. Rising bond yields , 
seasonal weakness in September and pre- midterm election 
blues are potential near-term headwinds for equities. However, 
equities have historically held up well despite higher bond yields 
as long as bond volatility is contained and growth resilient.  
In fact, history suggests taking advantage of any weakness in 
September to build long-term exposure as underlying earnings 
growth prospects remain solid (20%-plus S&P500 EPS growth 
expected in Q3 and Q4). For instance, over the past 15 years, 
buying the S&P 500 index at its September low has generated 
an average return of 11.4% over the subsequent six months. If 
we focus only on years when September ended in negative 
territory, the average six-month return rises to 15.1%.  
ECB to hike again next week. While a Fed rate hike remains 
a toss-up, the ECB is highly likely to hike 25bps to 2.5% next 
week. Euro area Q2 GDP expanded an above-trend 0.4% q/q, 
as the region weathered the energy shock better than feared. 
The momentum has carried into Q3. August headline inflation 
climbed to a near-three-year-high of 3.3% y/y on energy prices, 
although core inflation eased to 2.4% as second-round effects 
remain absent. With no progress seen in resolving the Middle 
East conflict, the case for ECB taking further pre-emptive action 
has risen. We remain focused on whether President Lagarde 
pushes back against market expectations of further rate hikes.    
—  Rajat Bhattacharya and Sundeep Gantori  
7,748
74.7
50
65
80
95
110
1256,300
6,700
7,100
7,500
7,900
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
Index (inverted)
Index
SPX Index MOVE Index (RHS)
10%
20%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
Q1'26 Q2'26 Q3'26 Q4'26 Q1'26 Q2'26 Q3'26 Q4'26
Earnings growth Revenue growth
Estimated S&P
earnings growth (y/y)
28-Aug 1-Jul

### Page 3

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

The weekly macro balance sheet 
Our weekly net assessment: On balance, we see the past week’s data 
and policy as negative for risk assets in the near-term 
(+) factors: Robust US services PMI, e asing Euro area core consumer 
inflation, China’s ongoing plan to boost consumption 
(-) factors: Cooling US job market, hawkish Fed, geopolitical tensions

Positive for risk assets Negative for risk assets 
Macro data 
• US ISM services PMI rose 
unexpectedly to 55.4 in 
August, with rising new 
orders 
• Euro area economic 
confidence rose more than 
expected to 98.4 in August 
• Euro area core consumer 
inflation eased to 2.4% y/y 
in August, while headline 
inflation rose to an almost 
three-year high of 3.3% y/y 
• US ISM mfg. PMI fell more 
than expected, with falling 
key sub-indices 
• US private payrolls rose by 
38,000 in August, while US 
JOLTS job openings 
slipped to 7.27mn in July, 
both below estimates 
• Euro area headline 
producer price rose 5.8% 
y/y in July, above forecasts 
• China mfg. and non-mfg. 
PMIs remained in 
contractionary territory  
Our assessment: Neutral – Robust US services data vs. 
cooling US job market, slower US manufacturing activity  
Policy  
developments 
• Reserve Bank of New 
Zealand raised its policy 
rate to 2.75%, but lowered 
its Q1 2027 rate projection 
marginally 
• Fed’s Williams and Waller 
indicated willingness to 
keep rates on hold if 
disinflation continues 
• Fed Chair Warsh struck a 
hawkish tone and warned 
on inflation at Jackson 
Hole 
• Bank of Canada kept rate 
unchanged at 2.25%, but 
adopted a hawkish tone 
• BOJ Governor Ueda 
signalled chance of 
September rate hike 
Our assessment: Negative – Hawkish Fed, BoC comments 
Other 
developments 
• China outlined 20 specific 
measures across seven 
areas to expand and 
upgrade consumption 
through 2030 
• US launched fresh 
airstrikes against Iran, after 
IRGC's attempted attacks 
• Germany planned 
measures to curb unfair 
Chinese trade practices.  
• US Treasury Secretary 
Bessent urged G20 
members to reconsider 
trade policies with China 
Our assessment: Negative – Ongoing geopolitical tensions

US ISM manufacturing new orders PMI missed 
market forecasts while the services new orders 
beat estimates  
US ISM manufacturing and services new orders PMIs

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

We expect the ECB to hike next week after Euro 
area headline consumer inflation rose to 3.3% y/y, 
although core inflation came in below estimates 
Euro area headline and core consumer price inflation

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

China's manufacturing and non-manufacturing 
PMIs remained in contraction territory in August 
China manufacturing and non-manufacturing PMI

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

53.7
60.9
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
Aug-21 Apr-23 Dec-24 Aug-26
Index
ISM Manufacturing New Orders PMI
ISM Services New Orders PMI
3.3
2.4
2.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
Aug-23 Aug-24 Aug-25 Aug-26
% y/y
Euro area headline consumer price index
Euro area core consumer price index
49.8
49.0
50.0
48
49
50
51
52
53
Aug-23 Aug-24 Aug-25 Aug-26
Index
China manufacturing PMI
China non-manufacturing PMI

### Page 4

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

Top client questions 
  F ollowing Fed Chair Warsh’s debut keynote address at  
Jackson Hole, do you expect a Fed rate hike this month? 
Our view: We  have raised our probability of a September Fed 
rate hike following Fed Chair Warsh’s Jackson Hole speech, as 
we believe the bar for keeping rates unchanged is now high. 
Rationale: The Fed’s price-stability mandate will be put to the test  
at its  16 September meeting. Fed Chair Warsh is expected to 
demonstrate his  inflation-fighting resolve, consistent with his 
Jackson Hole remarks that summer’s encouraging inflation readings 
were insufficient to confirm  a structural disinflationary trend, 
reaffirming the central bank’s focus on delivering price stability.  
Warsh’s comments lead us to believe that the bar for leaving rates 
unchanged is now high. A hold would likely require a major labour 
market deterioration and a materially softer inflation print in incoming 
data releases; in-line data would not be interpreted as dovish. 
However, in our view, a  rate hike would not mark the start of a 
sustained tightening cycle, as we expect disinflationary pressures 
and labour market weakness to persist. This view is also reflected 
in the US bond yield curve’s reaction to Warsh’s remarks. The curve 
bear-flattened, with short -term yields rising more than long-term 
yields. As yields in the sub- 10-year segment have moved higher 
relative to those in other parts of the curve, we suggest corporate 
bond investors to take advantage of the move by extending duration 
from the 3-5- year bucket to the 3-7-year bucket. We believe this 
segment is short enough to avoid the volatility and crowded 
positioning at the long end, yet long enough to benefit if the Fed 
remains on hold, given the short end of the curve is pricing in a hike. 
—  Ray Heung, Senior Investment Strategist 
  Would the US 30-year government bond yield break above 
its 20-year high of 5.4%? 
Our view: We believe the US 30-year government bond yield is 
unlikely to remain  above 5.4% sustainably in the short term. 
However, we expect US long -end bond yields to stay elevated 
and the US 30-year bond yield to range between  5.25% and 
5.50% over the next 12 months. 
Rationale: In the near term, with the US Treasury’s long-end bond 
buyback programme in place, we expect temporary moves above 
5.4%, but these are unlikely to be sustained.  
In the longer term, the effectiveness of the buyback programme is 
questionable given structural headwinds – a deteriorating US fiscal 
trajectory, waning foreign demand, AI -driven corporate supply and 
sticky inflation amplified by the Middle East conflict – which argue for 
yields remaining elevated even if the buyback program me limits 
the most acute spikes. 
—  Ray Heung, Senior Investment Strategist

Long-end yields rose less than short-end post Fed 
Chair Warsh’s Jackson Hole comments 
US government bond yield curve (%)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

We expect the US 30-year government bond yield 
to range between 5.00% and 5.25% over the next 
three months 
US 30-year government bond yield

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

5.2
5.3
3.8
4.1
4.4
4.7
5.0
5.3
6m 1y 2y 3y 5y 7y 10y 20y 30y
%
26-Aug-26 2-Sep-26
5.28 
5.00 
5.25 
4.4
4.6
4.8
5.0
5.2
5.4
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
%
30y US government bond yield
3m expected range

### Page 5

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  Taiwan is one of the few tech -heavy equity markets that 
recovered the ground lost in July. Is it time to take profit or add? 
Our view: We remain constructive on Taiwan and continue to 
view it as an attractive Opportunistic idea.  
Rationale: The MSCI Taiwan Index rebounded by 4.5% in August  
after declining 3.9% in July , in TWD terms. Recent guidance from 
hyperscalers indicate s that AI infrastructure spending remains 
resilient, with few signs of a slowdown. Taiwan remains a key 
beneficiary of the AI infrastructure buildout through its leadership 
in semiconductor manufacturing and the AI hardware ecosystem. 
Beyond foundries, many Taiwan companies are critical suppliers  
of printed circuit boards, liquid cooling and networking solutions, all 
of which benefit from rising AI hardware complexity and deployment.  
Although investors have raised concerns around circular financing, 
we view this largely as a reflection of AI's capital-intensive nature, 
in which incumbent technology firms provide funding and strategic 
support to ecosystem partners to accelerate product development  
and capacity expansion. While MSCI Taiwan’s price- to-earnings 
(P/E) ratio remains above its five-year average, valuations have 
moderated from June’s peak following the recent correction. This is 
supported by a stronger growth outlook  (2025-28E compound 
annual growth rate of 40.4% vs. 5.0% in 2021-25). As such , we 
remain constructive on Taiwan and its pivotal role in the global AI 
manufacturing ecosystem.   
—  Ryan Goh, Investment Strategist 
 Amid rising commodity prices, do you see  any 
opportunities within energy and commodity equities? 
Our view: We favour maintaining energy and commodity sector 
allocations closer to long term strategic benchmark weights  
rather than taking a significant Overweight position.  
Rationale: While there may be selective opportunities within the 
energy sector amid rising commodity prices, we favour maintaining 
allocations closer to strategic benchmark weights rather than 
taking a significant Overweight position. The binary nature of the 
near-term oil price outlook and any changes in geopolitical relations 
can create significant volatility. We also expect oil prices to ease 
towards USD 70/bbl over the next 12 months as transit conditions 
normalise, alongside a sizeable supply surplus expected in 2027. 
While i nvestors should not ignore energy stocks from a portfolio 
construction perspective , we continue to favo ur sectors where 
earnings visibility is stronger , such as t echnology and 
financials. We also take a more selective approach within materials, 
with gold reinstated to Overweight as the price outlook has notably 
improved alongside a sharp pullback in the USD. We have raised 
our three- and 12-month gold price targets to USD 4,750/oz  and 
USD 5,000/oz, respectively.  
—  Cindy Lam, CFA, Senior Investment Strategist

MSCI Taiwan’s valuations have moderated from 
the June peak  
MSCI Taiwan Index 12-month forward P/E ratio

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

The S&P500 Energy Sector Index has seen 
substantial upgrades to 2026 earnings forecasts, 
creating a high base for 2027  
Consensus earnings growth projections for the 
S&P500 Energy Sector Index as of April, July and 
August 2026

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S, Standard Chartered

18.215.8
13.1
18.5
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
Sep-21 May-23 Jan-25 Sep-26
x
MSCI Taiwan 12-month forward P/E
Average
+/- 1 S.D
82.7%
-12.4%
63.8%
-6.8%
18.1%
7.8%
-25%
0%
25%
50%
75%
100%
2026 2027
Earnings growth (% y/y)
28-Aug 1-Jul 1-Apr

### Page 6

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  Which currencies stand to benefit the most  as more 
central banks adopt a hawkish stance? 
Our view: The AUD appears best placed to benefit from further 
hawkish repricing, as additional RBA tightening remains only 
partly priced in. JPY upside risks have increased, but markets 
have already discounted substantial BoJ tightening, limiting the 
scope for a fresh policy surprise. The EUR retains some policy 
support, while NZD upside looks more limited following the 
RBNZ’s less hawkish forward guidance. 
Rationale: Currencies typically benefit most when central banks 
tighten more than markets expect. For Australia, Bloomberg pricing 
implies only around 12.7bps of additional RBA tightening, leaving 
greater scope for AUD upside if inflation or activity data prompt a 
more hawkish RBA path. 
For the JPY, recent hawkish repricing and official resistance to 
excessive weakness are supportive.  However, with substantial 
BoJ tightening already priced in, further sustained gains would  
require a faster or larger tightening path than currently discounted. 
The EUR would similarly need stronger guidance on further 
tightening to extend gains, while NZD upside looks more limited after 
the RBNZ’s projected rate path proved shallower than expected. 
—  Iris Yuen, Investment Strategist 
 How does the outcome of the recent G20 Finance Ministers 
and Central Bank Governors meeting affect your oil outlook? 
Our View: The lack of a diplomatic breakthrough at the  recent 
G20 meeting suggests geopolitical risk premi a will persist. As 
geopolitics remains the dominant driver of crude oil prices, we 
expect West Texas Intermediate (WTI)  oil to trade toward s the 
upper end of our USD 70-90/bbl range in the near term. 
Rationale: The  recent G20 finance track produced no movement 
towards conflict de-escalation in t he Middle East . Instead, the 
emphasis shifted towards tighter financial and economic 
pressure on Iran. While this reduces the risk of an extended military 
campaign, it points to a more prolonged period of supply 
uncertainty.  
Market estimates put total Gulf flows near 9.5 mb/d – around 50% 
of the pre- conflict norm  – supported by alternative routing and 
reported ‘dark transit s’, which are helping offset some supply 
disruptions. However, declining inventory buffers should keep WTI 
supported around USD 90/bbl. Given China is a key buyer of Iranian 
crude, the Trump-Xi summit later this month is the next major event 
to watch, as any shift in China's stance towards US pressure on Iran 
could materially affect export flows and oil prices. 
—  Anthony Naab, CFA, Investment Strategist

AUD/USD upside risks remain 
AUD/USD and technicals

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

WTI remains supported near the upper end of our 
USD 70-90/bbl forecast range 
WTI price, forecast range

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

0.7169
0.7031
0.7078
0.6983
0.62
0.65
0.68
0.71
0.74
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
AUD/USD
AUD/USD 50-DMA 100-DMA
200-DMA Support
91.9
90.0
70.0
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Jan-25 Aug-25 Mar-26 Oct-26
USD/bbl
WTI 3m forecast 12m forecast

### Page 7

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

Market performance summary*

Sources: MSCI, JP Morgan, Barclays Capital, Citigroup, Dow Jones, HFRX, FTSE, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
*Performance in USD terms unless otherwise stated, 2026 YTD performance from 31 December 2025 to 3 September 2026; 1-week period: 27 
August 2026 to 3 September 2026 
0.4%
-0.8%
-0.2%
-0.3%
-0.3%
2.3%
0.6%
6.8%
0.4%
-2.8%
7.9%
-2.7%
0.3%
0.3%
-0.4%
0.1%
0.4%
-1.2%
0.1%
2.3%
-0.5%
-0.2%
-0.3%
-0.5%
-0.2%
-0.3%
-0.6%
-0.2%
0.0%
-0.4%
-0.8%
-0.4%
-0.3%
-1.4%
-0.4%
1.7%
-1.0%
-1.1%
-2.1%
0.6%
1.9%
3.6%
0.2%
0.1%
-0.2%
-3.9%
0.1%
-2.1%
-1.9%
4.0%
1.3%
-0.1%
-1.4%
0.1%
2.1%
-0.4%
-0.6%
-0.3%
0.2%
-1.1%
0.2%
0.7%
0.0%
-10% -5% 0% 5% 10%
1 Week
6.0%
7.4%
2.3%
1.5%
4.3%
33.9%
20.9%
71.4%
10.7%
0.7%
58.5%
3.6%
1.4%
1.4%
-1.8%
3.8%
-0.5%
2.1%
7.9%
0.6%
0.4%
-1.0%
0.6%
0.7%
2.6%
2.4%
-0.7%
-4.2%
2.3%
1.3%
-2.2%
-0.6%
-0.4%
9.3%
4.4%
-0.4%
18.2%
29.8%
12.6%
9.0%
13.8%
38.2%
6.5%
-3.1%
62.7%
86.1%
-8.9%
-9.6%
5.8%
19.8%
28.9%
7.9%
24.4%
12.6%
22.6%
21.5%
10.9%
11.9%
13.7%
23.0%
13.9%
18.9%
14.9%
-40% -20% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Macro CTAs
Equity Long/Short
Event Driven
Relative Value
Composite (All strategies)
Diversified Commodity
Agriculture
Energy
Industrial Metal
Precious Metal
Crude Oil
Gold
Asia ex-Japan
SGD
CHF
CNH
CAD
NZD
AUD
JPY
GBP
EUR
Asia HC
Europe High Yield
US High Yield
DM High Yield Corporates
DM IG Corporates
Asia EM LC
EM Sovereign LC
EM Sovereign HC
EU Sovereign
US Sovereign
DM IG Sovereign
Global Property Equity/REITs
Utilities
Communication Services
Materials
IT
Industrial
Healthcare
Financial
Energy
Consumer Staples
Consumer Discretionary
Taiwan
South Korea
India
China
Middle East
Latam
Eastern Europe
Africa
Asia ex-Japan
United Kingdom
Japan (USD)
Japan (Local)
Western Europe (USD)
Western Europe (Local)
US
Emerging Markets (EM)
Developed Markets (DM)
Global High Divi Yield Equities
Global Equities
Year to Date
Bonds | Credit
Equity | Country & Region
Bonds | Sovereign
Alternatives
FX (against USD)
Equity | Sector
Commodity

### Page 8

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

Our 12-month asset class views at a glance 
Asset class 
Equities ▲  Preferred Sectors  
US ▲  US Technology ▲ 
Europe ex-UK ◆  US Communication  ▲ 
UK ▼  US Financials  ▲ 
Asia ex-Japan ▲  Europe ex-UK Financials ▲ 
Japan ◆  Europe ex-UK Industrials ▲ 
Other EM ◆  Japan Financials ▲ 
   China Communication ▲ 
Bonds ◆  China Technology ▲

Credit   Govt  
Asia USD ◆  Govt EM Local ◆ 
Corp DM HY ◆  Govt DM IG ▼ 
Govt EM USD ▲    
Corp DM IG ◆  Alternatives ◆

Gold ▲

Source: Standard Chartered Global Investment Committee 
Legend:  ▲ Most preferred  |  ▼ Less preferred  |  ◆ Core holding

Economic and market calendar 
 Market Event Period Expected Prior

MON EUR Sentix Investor 
Confidence Sep – 0.9 
CNH Foreign Reserves Aug $3430b $3419b

TUE USD NFIB Small Business 
Optimism Aug – 99.8 
CNH Imports y/y Aug 31.9% 27.5% 
CNH Exports y/y Aug 27.9% 23.9%

WED CNH PPI y/y Aug – 3.5% 
CNH CPI y/y Aug 0.9% 0.5%

THU 
EUR ECB Deposit Facility 
Rate 10-Sep – 2.3% 
USD Initial Jobless Claims 5-Sep – – 
USD Continuing Claims 29-Aug – – 
USD PPI Final Demand y/y Aug – 4.7% 
USD PPI Ex Food and 
Energy y/y Aug – 4.2% 
USD Existing Home Sales Aug 3.99m 4.06m

FRI/SAT USD CPI y/y Aug 3.4% 3.4% 
USD Core CPI y/y Aug 2.4% 2.5% 
USD U. of Mich. Sentiment Sep P – 51.7

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
Prior data are for the preceding period unless otherwise indicated. Data 
are % change on previous period unless otherwise indicated 
P - preliminary data, F - final data, sa - seasonally adjusted, y/y - year-
on-year, m/m - month-on-month

The S&P500 has next interim resistance at 7,839 
Technical indicators for key markets as of 3 Sep close

Index Spot 
1st 
support 
1st 
resis-
tance 
12m 
forward 
P/E (x) 
12m 
forward 
dividend 
yield (%) 
S&P 500 7,748 7,634 7,839 19.5  1.1  
STOXX 50 6,383 6,283 6,530 15.0  3.2  
FTSE 100 10,832 10,691 10,966 12.9  3.4  
TOPIX 4,102 3,945 4,239 16.1  2.3  
Shanghai Comp 3,942 3,829 4,025 13.0  3.0  
Hang Seng 25,213 24,752 25,931 10.5  3.5  
Nifty 50 23,873 23,539 24,456 17.9  1.8  
MSCI Asia  
ex-Japan 1,123 1,086 1,153 10.0  2.5  
MSCI EM 1,703 1,649 1,745 9.8  2.8  
Crude oil (WTI) 91.3 79.3 98.2 na na 
Gold 4,473 4,110 4,766 na na 
UST 10Y Yield 4.77 4.63 4.86 na na 
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
Note: These short-term technical levels are based on models and may 
differ from a more qualitative analysis provided in other pages

Investor diversity has normalised across asset classes 
Our proprietary market diversity indicators as of 3 Sep close 
Level 1 Diversity 
1-month 
trend 
Fractal 
dimension 
Global Bonds ●  1.80 
Global Equities ●  1.73 
Gold ●  2.80 
Equity     
MSCI US ●  1.72 
MSCI Europe ◐  1.48 
MSCI AC AXJ ●  1.74 
Fixed Income     
DM Corp Bond ●  1.74 
DM High Yield ●  1.63 
EM USD ●  2.03 
EM Local ◐  1.44 
Asia USD ●  2.03 
Currencies     
EUR/USD ●  2.05

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; Fractal dimensions below 
1.25 indicate extremely low market diversity/high risk of a reversal 
Legend:  ● High  |  ◐ Low to mid  |  ○ Critically low

### Page 9

Market views on-the-go 
MVOG

SC Wealth Insights 
Find out more

YouTube

Facebook

LinkedIn

PvB LinkedIn

SC Money 
Insights 
4 podcasts shows on Spotify 
and Apple platforms

Spotify

Apple Podcasts

Speak to your Relationship Manager/Investment Advisor today for access to our security specific publications.

Access our views 24/7 on key platforms

P805C T
P815C2T P8 9C6T
P8 5C3T P8 9C7T
P835C3T
P848C3T P85 C7T

### Page 10

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

10

### Page 11

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

11

### Page 12

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

12

### Page 13

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

13

### Page 14

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 4 September 2026

14

provide financial services only to clients who qualify as Professional Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail Cl ients. As 
a Professional Client you will not be given the higher retail client protection and compensation rights and if you use your right to be 
classified as a Retail Client we will be unable to provide financial services and products to you as we do not hold the required license 
to undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shari ah Supervisory Committee. 
Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank website in the 
Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by th e Central Bank of the 
U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide financial 
analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodit ies Authority Decision No. 
48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis. Uganda: Our Investment products and services are distributed 
by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an investment adviser. United 
Kingdom: In the UK, Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. This communication has been approved by Standard Chartered Bank for the 
purposes of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 
2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Global Private Bank) is also an authorised financial services 
provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials 
have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal r equirements designed to promote the independence of investment research, 
and that it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research. V ietnam: This document 
is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulat ed by 
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited for any queries 
regarding any content of this document. Zambia: This document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company 
incorporated in Zambia and registered as a commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial  
Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws of Zambia.

---
## Document 373: Westpac Coast-to-Coast September 2026 (2026-09-01)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Westpac Coast-to-Coast September 2026 (2026-09-01).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-09-01
Pages: 25
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
WESTPAC
COAST-TO-
COAST
September 2026
Your quarterly report on Australia’s state economies.

### Page 2

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
CONTENTS
Overview
Australian Economic Outlook:
The economy shifts to business-led growth 3
States Overview:
Growth holds up better than expected 4
Beyond housing, inflation is remarkably similar 6
Data centre investment ramps up 8
Record high renewables pipeline   9

States
New South Wales:
Business investment boom helps 10
Victoria:
Extended period of stagnation 12
Queensland:
Private investment jumps 14
Western Australia:
Resilient domestic economy underpins activity  16
South Australia:
Growth hiccups 18
Tasmania:
Consumers outperform expectations 20
Forecasts
State activity and employment  22
Westpac Coast to Coast is a quarterly publication
produced by Westpac Economics.
Authors:
Matthew Hassan, Head of Australian Macro-Forecasting

Pat Bustamante, Senior Economist
Luka Belobrajdic, Neha Sharma & Ryan Wells, Economists
Internet : www.westpac.com.au
Email: economics@westpac.com.au
This issue was finalised on 18 September 2026.
westpaciq.com.au
WESTPAC COAST TO COAST – SEPTEMBER 2026

### Page 3

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS3
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMIC OUTLOOK
The June quarter National Accounts showed Australia’s
economy expanded 0.4% in Q2 and 2.1% in year-ended
terms. It was the first full quarter that households and
businesses had to deal with the global energy shock flowing

from the conflict in the Middle East and higher domestic
interest rates. With a strong ramp up in data centre
investment also coming off a massive surge in Q1, the result
was a noisy quarter. Looking through this, the Accounts
point to growth stabilising at a slower pace. The household
sector has been resilient with solid income growth
providing support, partly reflecting the upswing in business
investment, which still has further to run.
The data centre and renewables investment upswing

continues to gather momentum. Consistent with the upward
revision to surveyed capex intentions, we now expect new
business investment to grow by almost 13% in 2026 (up
from 11.7%yr previously) and a further 10% in 2027 (up from
7.5%yr). The upswing also appears to be generating larger
spillovers to related industries, including construction and
professional services, supporting incomes. The Westpac–
DataX Card Tracker suggests spending momentum
strengthened through Q2 and into Q3, with household

consumption likely to rise by 0.8%qtr in Q3 and 2.0%yr in
2026 (up from 1.7%yr previously).
Construction has also strengthened and the outlook remains
positive. Beyond the data centre and renewable energy
build-out, non-residential building is being supported by
the need to accommodate a growing population, while
residential construction continues to benefit from a range of
state and federal government initiatives. This is offsetting
the wind-down in public infrastructure spending. We expect

construction activity to remain resilient despite the headwinds
from higher interest rates, higher energy costs associated
with the Middle East conflict, rising labour costs and falling
established house prices.
What does this mean for the aggregate outlook?
Aggregate economic conditions have firmed. Business-
led activity, which appears insensitive to interest rates, is
providing the economy with a tailwind strong enough to
support broader areas of the economy that are not directly tied

to the data centre/renewables build-out.
As a result, we have upgraded our near-term outlook to 1.5%yr
in 2026, up from 1.0%yr expected prior to the Q2 National
Accounts. The outlook beyond 2026 is largely unchanged,
although the risks are tilted to the upside given the size of the
potential increase in renewable investment. We expect growth
to accelerate to 1.7%yr in 2027 and 2.5%yr in 2028 as the RBA
eases rates in the second half of 2027 in response to emerging

spare capacity.
The economy shifts to business-led growth
Pat Bustamante, Senior Economist
Reflecting the firmer near-term outlook, we have revised our
forecast peak in the unemployment rate down slightly from
4.9% (in Q1 2027) to 4.8% (in Q2 2027), where it is expected
to hold around this level throughout 2027. The slightly tighter
labour market, combined with stronger global inflationary
pressures associated with the AI investment boom, points
to a firm near-term inflation pulse of 3.3%yr in 2026 before

easing to 2.7%yr in 2027 and 2.3%yr in 2028 as spare capacity
emerges and productivity gradually improves. We now expect
the RBA Board to hike in September  2026 , with the cash rate
peaking at 4.6% before policy is cautiously eased in the second
half of 2027.

### Page 4

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS4
STATES OVERVIEW
Growth holds up better than expected ...
State economic growth regained momentum in annual
average terms with per capita activity returning to positive
growth in FY2026 and the resource-rich states leading the
recovery. However, the second half of the fiscal year offered

a glimpse of what lies ahead. Higher interest rates, elevated
fuel prices and ongoing Middle East tensions weighed on
the consumer-led states, with household spending slowing
across NSW, Vic and Tas.
Growth in Gross State Product (GSP) strengthened across all
states in FY2026, with GSP per capita also rebounding after
the declines recorded in FY2025. On our estimates, SA (2.8%yr,
year-average) led the pack, followed by the mining states of Qld
(2.5%yr) and WA (2.4%yr). Tas (2.5%yr) also posted a strong

result, while NSW (2.1%yr) and Vic (1.7%) saw growth pick up, by
more than we previously expected. Note that Tasmania’s rebound
largely reflects the importation of two Spirit of Tasmania ferries in
FY2025 which dropped out of the trade flow numbers in FY2026.
Despite the solid outcome over FY2026, the underlying
growth pulse in the consumer-led states is losing momentum.
Household spending  was weak, rising just 0.3%qtr in NSW
and 0.1%qtr in Victoria in Q2. In NSW, six-month annualised

growth in consumer spending slowed to 1.2%yr in H1 2026
from around 2.0%yr in H2 2025. The slowdown was even
more pronounced in Vic and Tas, where growth halved from
2.1%yr to 1.0%yr and from 2.8%yr to 1.4%yr, respectively.
The mining states and SA remained the clear outperformers.
Household spending momentum strengthened in WA, with
six-month annualised growth accelerating to 3.3%yr in H1
2026 from 1.5%yr in H2 2025. Qld (1.8%yr to 2.1%yr) and SA

(1.5%yr to 2.2%yr) also recorded solid gains over H1 2026.
However, with higher interest rates and elevated fuel prices
increasingly squeezing household budgets, this resilience
is unlikely to persist, with consumption growth expected to
moderate over the year ahead.
While the consumer is mixed, business investment  remains
strong across the board. In NSW, business investment is
almost 20% higher than a year ago, despite the large fall in
equipment investment over Q2 (-6.2%qtr). In Vic, business

investment is growing a healthy 7.3%yr, notwithstanding
a 6.0%qtr fall in Q2. More generally, business investment
remains resilient across the mining states and SA – growing
at 9.0%yr in Qld, 6.6%yr in WA and 6.2%yr in SA, while Tas
remains the laggard at 2.9%yr.
Residential construction  is also showing encouraging
signs. Dwelling investment grew strongly in Qld (6.2%qtr),
SA (2.4%qtr) and Vic (3.1%qtr), with outcomes across the
remaining states mixed. In contrast, public investment

declined across all the states in Q2 (except SA where public
consumption declined) as the infrastructure pipeline moves
beyond its peak. Qld recorded a particularly sharp 3.0%qtr
decline in Q2, driven largely by a pullback in investment by
public corporations.
Pat Bustamante, Senior Economist

### Page 5

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
5
WESTPAC ECONOMICS5
STATES OVERVIEW
On the back of firmer activity, labour market conditions also
appear to be stabilising. Employment-to-population ratios
have edged higher in NSW and Qld in recent months, while
conditions in Vic, SA and Tas have stabilised and improved

modestly. In WA, the employment-to-population ratio continues
to track sideways, albeit from historically elevated levels.
This strengthening in  labour market conditions has been
accompanied by a modest acceleration in underlying inflation
across the states (see page 8). While inflation rates vary
across the states, the divergence is largely a housing story.
Outside housing, inflation is remarkably similar across
jurisdictions, suggesting differences in income growth

and demand are being accommodated without generating
materially different underlying inflation pressures. This points
to relatively elastic supply across states that balances out
these differences in demand. Housing of course is famously
inelastic in terms of supply, explaining the more persistent
differences in inflation across states.
What does this mean for the economic outlook across the states?
Reflecting the stronger-than-expected outcome in FY2026,

we have revised up our near-term forecasts for growth and
inflation, while labour market conditions are also expected to
be slightly firmer through 2026. We still expect the underlying
growth impulse to moderate compared to 2025, particularly
in the consumer-led economies of NSW and Vic . However,
the consumer slowdown is now likely to be shallower than
previously anticipated with a more substantial boost coming
from the ongoing business investment upswing.

The data centre and renewable energy investment boom is
providing a powerful tailwind to the economy, supporting
activity well beyond the projects themselves. While
construction remains heavily concentrated in NSW and Vic,
a growing pipeline of projects is emerging across Qld, WA,
SA and Tas (see pages 8 and 9). For now, Capex expectations
... business investment softens the slowdown
suggest the investment upswing will remain centred on NSW
and Vic. The scale of the pipeline, together with larger-than-

expected spillovers to the broader economy, underpins our
upward revisions to GSP growth in both states in FY2027.
Qld and WA are still expected to lead the pack. Elevated
commodity prices are delivering sizeable income windfalls, while
solid population growth continues to support domestic demand.
In Qld, momentum will be reinforced by Olympics-related
infrastructure spending and associated activity. In WA, strong
population growth and constrained housing supply should

keep dwelling price growth firmer than elsewhere, supporting
household spending through wealth effects. The resilience of
the WA consumer was evident in the first half of 2026, with
spending rising 1.0%qtr in Q2 following a 0.7%qtr gain in Q1.
SA remains the standout surprise. Traditionally a relative
underperformer, the state’s economy is currently firing on
multiple cylinders. Private-sector activity has strengthened,
infrastructure and defence spending pipelines remain

substantial, and fiscal policy is providing more support than
in most other states. Housing approvals are also strong on a
per capita basis, suggesting residential construction should
contribute positively to growth while helping to ease housing
supply pressures over time.
Tas remains the exception. Slower population growth continues
to constrain both housing construction and consumer demand,
leaving the state more exposed to the broader economic

slowdown and limiting its capacity to benefit from the investment
upswing seen elsewhere. That said, the picture is more
encouraging in per capita terms, with activity strengthening over
the past year despite subdued aggregate growth.
Looking further ahead, as inflation returns to target and
interest rates begin to ease from late 2027, household spending
should gradually recover. As consumer demand strengthens,
growth differentials across the states are likely to narrow, with

economic performance beginning to converge once again.

### Page 6

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS6
STATES OVERVIEW
Beyond housing, underlying inflation ...
As our Coast to Coast report has highlighted over the years,
economic conditions can vary significantly across states.
However, many of these differences narrow over time,
partly as associated price and wage differences encourage

individuals and businesses to adjust. That process can differ
depending on the exact nature of imbalances across states.
Here we take a closer look at how inflation has behaved
across states, where gaps have emerged in the past and
where they have tended to be more material and persistent.
This, in turn, may provide some clues about the drivers of
cycles in underlying inflation nationally.
A difficulty with this comparison is that headline inflation

measures are heavily distorted by state specific government
policy. Cost-of-living measures, including energy rebates and
housing-related interventions, have had a significant influence
on CPI outcomes in recent years. To look through these effects,
we construct state-level measures of underlying inflation,
including a housing-adjusted trimmed mean that excludes new
dwelling purchase costs, rents and property rates.
The chart below shows our estimates of trimmed mean

inflation across the capital cities (which we use as proxies
for states). They reveal significant differences in underlying
inflation over time. The clearest sustained differences are
around the surge in inflation in WA and Qld in the initial stages
of the mining boom of the mid-2000s, and the subsequent
period of markedly lower inflation (including a brief period of
deflation) in WA during the mid-2010s. However, divergences
have generally been short-lived, with state inflation outcomes

eventually converging towards the national pulse.
For the most recent periods, the trimmed mean measures
effectively strip out the noise coming from cost-of-living
measures (as per the national measure). The state TMs show
underlying inflation has accelerated across all jurisdictions.
But there are some significant variations with Vic recording the
lowest rate of underlying inflation (3.6%yr) in Q2 and Tas the
highest (4.3%yr).
Much of this remaining variation comes from housing-related

components (new dwellings, rents and property rates). Indeed,
we estimate that these components account for around 50%
of the underlying inflation gap between states since 2000, and
over 60% of the gap during the mining boom.
We can see this visually by stripping out housing components
from our TM measures. As the chart below shows, the
difference across states largely disappears when we look at
underlying inflation (ex-housing).
Importantly, these results provide valuable clues about the

drivers of inflation, both today and into the future. Despite
substantial variation in economic conditions, income growth
and labour market outcomes across states, underlying inflation
excluding housing has remained remarkably similar across
state. This suggests that, outside the housing sector, supply is
generally able to adjust to variations in demand across states
relatively quickly, ‘equalising’ the impact on price inflation.
Pat Bustamante, Senior Economist

Neha Sharma, Economist

### Page 7

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Clues from the mining investment cycle?
Why would state variations in housing costs be more
persistent? The mining investment cycle may offer some
insights here.
The boom phase of the mining investment cycle saw dramatic
rises in commodity prices in its early stages with windfall

gains for miners, some of which passed on to household and
government incomes (including via share holdings). As the
surge in investment mobilised, supply constraints started
to emerge, particularly in the construction sector. Notably,
differences in wage inflation (and unit labour costs) between
the mining and non-mining states are somewhat starker
and more sustained than for broader inflation. The stronger
employment and wage gains added to the state wedge in

household income growth. However, it also drew a supply
response. Surging international and inter-state migration flows
saw population growth hit 3.5%yr in WA with labour supply
also significantly augmented by the use of ‘fly-in-fly-out’
workers travelling inter-state.
For housing, the situation is more difficult. Supply responses
are slow at the best of times but faced intense competition
for inputs from mining-related activity, particularly labour

but also some locally-sourced material inputs. Meanwhile the
population shift was pumping up housing demand. Perth’s
rental vacancy rate, which was around 4% coming into the
boom, dropped to just 1.4% by 2007. With incomes also rising,
the combination saw both the city’s rents and established
dwelling prices surge at a strong double-digit growth rate that
lasted the best part of five years.
These dynamics reverse during the downturn phase of the
cycle. And again, the effects can be more lasting for housing-

related costs, as the turnaround in migration flows and a
lagged rise in housing supply amplifies the income effects
from the investment wind down.
... is remarkably similar
Fast forward to today
As data centre and renewable energy investment accelerates,
the key inflation risk may not be stronger demand itself
but the extent to which it spills over to the construction
side of the housing sector. The data centre and renewables
boom has a very different geographic pattern that suggests

population shifts are unlikely to present the same challenges
they did during the mining boom. It is also unlikely to draw in
international migrants in the way the mining boom did either.
However, the competition for labour and locally-sourced
construction materials will be the key factor. And construction
capacity, labour and housing supply are all coming into this
cycle from a tighter starting point than in the early 2000s,
suggesting even modest increases in demand for construction

services could generate a significant inflationary impulse.
While that leaves some open questions, the general takeaway
from this analysis of state inflation trends is that housing-
related components of the CPI are the ones to keep an eye on
when assessing how these developments may be influencing
underlying inflation trends.

### Page 8

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
8
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Data centre investment ramps up

### Page 9

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
9
WESTPAC ECONOMICS9
MAJOR PROJECT MAP
Record high renewables pipeline across Australia

### Page 10

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
10
WESTPAC ECONOMICS10
NEW SOUTH WALES
Business investment boom helps offset ...
Neha Sharma
Economist
How has the state performed? NSW’s strong start to the
year lost momentum in Q2, with state final demand flat over
the quarter. Even so, annual growth remains solid at 3.5%,

narrowly trailing Qld and WA. On a per capita basis, NSW
led the nation, with demand up 2.0% over the year. Growth
remains heavily skewed towards the private sector. New
private demand rose 0.1%qtr and 4.6%yr, accounting for over
90% of total state final demand. Both the pace of annual
growth and private demand’s share of the economy are the
strongest nationally. In contrast, new public demand fell for a
second straight quarter, down 0.3%qtr, leaving annual growth

at just 0.6%yr, the weakest of the mainland states.
A key stat that tells the story. Household consumption rose
just 0.3%qtr and 1.6%yr, the second slowest pace nationally
behind Vic. While a warmer winter weighed on spending, with
electricity expenditure down 6.1%qtr, the broader story is
that higher interest rates are hitting one of the most interest
rate sensitive states. Reflecting this, NSW consumers have
recorded the sharpest deterioration in assessments of current

family finances over the past year. Yet confidence about the
future remains surprisingly resilient, being the only state
where consumers remain outright optimistic about family
finances over the year ahead. That optimism may reflect a
relatively strong labour market, with unemployment up only
modestly this year and employment growth the strongest in
the nation and continuing to trend higher.
What has surprised? For NSW, there was a risk that business

investment would falter after the data centre-related surge
in Q1. Instead, investment held its ground, recording a small
0.1%qtr rise to be up 19%yr. While new M&E investment eased
as expected, this was offset by solid gains in infrastructure and
non-residential construction activity. Annual growth across all
three components remains in double digits, underscoring the
breadth of investment momentum across the state.
How can things improve?  The challenge remains converting

the investment boom into stronger productivity growth
and, ultimately, higher wages and living standards. Unlike
the mining boom, the productivity gains from AI-related
investment could emerge more quickly. But realising those
gains will depend on how effectively businesses embed these
technologies into their operations and workflows.
What are we expecting? We have upgraded our GSP growth
forecast for FY26 to 2.1% (+0.2ppts) and to 1.5% (+0.6ppts)

for FY27. The upward revision reflects greater resilience of the
consumers and the state economy in light of higher interest
rates and a more pronounced downturn in its housing market,
as well as the solid pipeline of AI and energy infrastructure
works which totals around $30bn, with an additional $60bn of
projects under consideration. However, this boom is also likely
to place some near-term pressure on inflation.

### Page 11

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
11
WESTPAC ECONOMICS11
NEW SOUTH WALES
... weakness elsewhere

### Page 12

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
12
WESTPAC ECONOMICS12
VICTORIA
Extended period of stagnation ...
Matt Hassan
Head of Australian Macro-forecasting
How has the state performed? The Vic economy has
been notably weaker than other states over the last year,
particularly when viewed against the state’s slightly stronger

population growth. GSP growth looks to have been basically
flat in per capita terms over 2025-26 compared to the 0.8%yr
GDP growth seen nationally. State final demand contracted
0.3% in Q2, slowing annual growth to 2.9%yr, also below the
national average. Consumption stalled about flat in the quarter
while business investment unwound a big data-centre-driven
surge in Q1. Vic’s housing sector has also been a persistent
underperformer, the latest correction means Melbourne prices

have now seen no net change since early 2021. Public demand
has been mixed, growth still positive overall but slowing with
a gradual roll-off in major transport infrastructure projects
continuing and set to be multi-year drag through to at least the
end of the decade. Notably, the state elections on November
28 could see some change with the Coalition opposition
currently leading in polls but a minority or hung parliament
result looking likely.
A key stat that tells the story. At 5.1%, Vic’s unemployment

rate is about 1ppt higher than the other major states – a
wedge that has been in place for over two years now. Notably,
unemployment in Vic is now higher than it was just prior to
the pandemic. This is in stark contrast to the rest of the nation
where unemployment rates are still more 0.5ppt or more
below pre-pandemic levels.
What has surprised? Part of Vic’s recent underperformance
is due to international trade with the state’s export volumes
declining 1.6% over the year to June compared to a 3.5%

gain over the rest of Aus. Service exports, which include
both tourism and education, have been particularly weak,
down 8.1%yr. Data on foreign student numbers show total
enrolments in Vic down 7-8%yr led by a 20% drop in non
higher education (higher education enrolments up 14% over
the same period).
How can things improve? The main near term opportunity
for Vic continues to be around capitalising on the strong
upturn in business investment . The rise has yet to translate

into stronger gains across the wider state economy. Further
out, Vic’s housing sector is a little better placed insofar as
affordability is less stretched than in other states. That could
see a base and recovery form a little more quickly although for
now momentum remains firmly negative.
What are we expecting? We expect GSP growth to come in at
1.7%yr in 2025/26, a slight downgrade on the 2%yr estimate
in our last report. Growth is still expected to slow in 2026/27

but to a milder 1.5%yr pace compared to previous forecast
of just 0.9%yr. That still means essentially flat growth in per
capita terms.

### Page 13

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
13
WESTPAC ECONOMICS13
VICTORIA
... but with business investment a positive

### Page 14

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
14
WESTPAC ECONOMICS14
QUEENSLAND
Private investment jumps ...
Ryan Wells
Economist
How has the state performed? Qld built on its solid start to
the year with a bumper 1.1% lift in state final demand, pulling
annual growth up to 3.8%yr, the fastest pace across the states

and back around its own historic average (3.9%yr).
A key stat that tells the story. At 11.7%yr, growth in private
investment is running at a very strong pace, well above the
national average (9.1%yr) and second only to NSW, which was
at the epicentre of the surge in data centre related investment
earlier in the year. The scale and breadth of Qld’s investment
pulse is a clear sign that the handover of growth from the
public to private sector has occurred without major hiccups.

What has surprised? One of the key parts of the investment
story in Qld is housing, where the upswing has advanced to a
17%yr pace, nearly three times the national average pace. This
outperformance has lasted for a number of quarters, buoyed
by a robust pipeline of residential projects. The surprising
feature is that this strength has managed to kick into a higher
gear despite higher interest rates, elevated costs and ongoing
local capacity constraints associated with the 2032 Olympics

and Queensland’s sizeable infrastructure pipeline.
How can things improve? Recently, Qld’s unemployment
rate has fallen to the lowest across the states, while the
national unemployment rate has continued to tick higher. Qld
also has the second-highest vacancy-to-unemployment rate
across the country (behind WA), highlighting the tightness
in Qld’s labour market at present. This has occurred against
a backdrop of weaker labour supply – the participation

rate fell sharply over the second half of last year, and it
has only recovered some of that decline so far this year.
An improvement in labour supply would go some way to
alleviating the state’s capacity constraints.
What are we expecting? We remain positive on Qld’s growth
prospects. GSP is forecast to lift 2.0% in FY27 and hold at this
level in FY28, underscored by solid population growth and
a robust labour market, with employment expected to grow

by 1.3% in FY27 and 2.1% in FY28. However, it is important
emphasise the role of population growth, with GSP on a per
capita basis expected to rise slightly in FY27 (0.3%) and
increase further in FY28 (0.7%). The current investment-led
pulse is an encouraging development, and given Qld’s state
budget earlier this year earmarked further significant spending
on critical infrastructure, this will only add to the large number
of infrastructure/dwelling projects already in the pipeline,

including Olympics-related spending. This bodes well for
growth over the medium-term, but a key risk still lies in the
ability to deliver on these ambitious programs amid capacity
constraints and elevated costs in the construction sector. The
upshot could be above-average localised inflation pressures.

### Page 15

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
15
WESTPAC ECONOMICS15
QUEENSLAND
... as labour market tightens

### Page 16

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
16
WESTPAC ECONOMICS16
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
Resilient domestic economy underpins activity ...
Luka Belobrajdic
Economist
How has the state performed? State final demand grew a
solid 1.0%qtr in Q2, lifting annual growth to 3.6%yr. Growth
was broad-based, with household consumption rising 1.0%qtr,

the strongest result among the states, although annual growth
eased to 2.4%yr. Momentum in private investment moderated
to 1.1%qtr, as a lift in new business investment (+2.2%qtr) was
partly offset by a decline in dwelling investment (–1.0%qtr).
Even so, dwelling investment remained firmly positive in year-
ended terms (+7.4%yr). New public demand recovered last
quarter’s decline, up 0.7%qtr, led by government consumption
(+1.6%qtr), while new public investment fell –3.4%qtr.

A key stat that tells the story: The resilience of WA’s
domestic economy can largely be attributed to the strength
of its labour market. Despite population growth of 2.2%yr,
the fastest in the country, WA’s employment-to-population
ratio remains the highest nationally at 65.0%, while the
unemployment rate on a three-month average basis remains
marginally below the national average at 4.4%. The state’s
ability to absorb a rapidly expanding population without a

material loosening in labour market conditions highlights
the strength of labour demand across the economy and
has supported wage growth (3.3%yr in Q2), household
consumption and housing demand.
What has surprised? Despite the resilience of the WA economy,
headline inflation eased to 4.0%yr in Q2, just 0.1ppt above the
national rate and well below the 0.8ppt premium recorded in Q1.
While encouraging, trimmed mean inflation remains elevated at
4.2%yr, suggesting underlying price pressures remain stronger

than the headline measure implies.
How can things improve? While business investment remains
solid, growing 4.5%yr, WA has attracted comparatively less of
the data-centre and related digital infrastructure investment
that has supported activity elsewhere. Leveraging the state’s
abundant energy resources and expanding renewables base
to attract a greater share of these projects would broaden the
private investment mix beyond mining and housing, and provide

an additional source of productivity-enhancing investment.
Where are we expecting? We estimate GSP to have grown
2.4%yr in FY26. The result reflects broad-based strength across
the domestic economy and the re-emergence of mining as a key
growth driver. Elevated commodity prices through the first half
of 2026 supported both investment and exports, particularly
for gold and LNG, while a recovery in iron ore export volumes in
Q2 following earlier weather disruptions provided an additional

boost to activity. Growth is forecast to slow to 1.9%yr in FY27,
and maintain at this level into FY28 as commodity-price tailwinds
fade and elevated interest rates continue to weigh on activity.
Even so, a resilient household sector should continue to support
domestic demand, underpinned by solid average wage growth of
3.7%yr since 2022, a robust labour market and strong population
growth. The trade-off is that rapid population growth is likely to

see aggregate growth outpace gains on a per capita basis.

### Page 17

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
17
WESTPAC ECONOMICS17
WESTERN AUSTRALIA
... while mining adds further momentum

### Page 18

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
18
WESTPAC ECONOMICS18
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
Growth hiccups ...
Ryan Wells
Economist
How has the state performed? South Australia’s slowing in
growth momentum at the start of the year has extended into
Q2, with state final demand holding flat, pulling the annual
growth rate down from 3.6%yr to 2.8%yr, now in line with

the state’s historic average. This follows an extended period
of outperformance relative to other states over recent years,
suggesting momentum is normalising.
A key stat that tells the story. One of the main drivers of
recent softness was a –1.6% fall in new public demand in Q2,
a sharp and somewhat sudden decline, and the first fall in this
segment in nearly four years. While we have long emphasised
the slowdown in public demand nationally, SA had bucked

this wider trend to date. However, the detail is not yet fully
convincing that this will give way to a sustained downtrend.
This is because the recent pull-back in new public demand in
SA was centred on a one-off decline in public consumption,
whereas new public investment – which has been at epicentre
of the slowdown nationally – is running at a 17%yr, putting SA
in a league of its own relative to the national average (1.3%yr).
What has surprised? On the surface, the recent pull-back in

SA’s employment growth gives the impression of a weaker
labour market. This is a surprise given the labour market
lags the broader economy, and SA’s economy has been
resoundingly strong over recent years. However, this may
be explained by nuances in the data – while employment
growth has indeed dropped from around 4%yr to 1%yr so far
this year, jobs growth has actually edged higher. Strength in
multiple job holdings and differences in scope may explain

this contrast, and to the extent that SA’s unemployment rate
remains below the national average, the slowdown in headline
employment growth may not be a significant concern at this
stage, but it should be closely watched.
How can things improve? The main expenditure segment in
SA that is lagging is new business investment. This is not to
say it isn’t robust –  at 6.9%yr, it is running at a solid clip, and
while it is understandably slower than in NSW and Vic (which

are benefiting more from data centres at present), it still falls a
bit short of Qld and WA.
What are we expecting? Growth is expected to follow a
similar contour to the national picture but from a stronger
starting point, with GSP forecast to expand by 1.8% in FY27
and 1.7% in FY28, consistent with outperformance on a per
capita basis. Despite recent resilience, some cooling in the
growth rate of new public investment is to be expected, while
large existing projects maintain a solid level of investment.

At the same time, the private sector will continue to feel the
squeeze from high inflation and higher interest rates near-
term. Looking further ahead, the SA’s robust renewable energy
infrastructure positions the state well to benefit from a strong
pipeline of possible data centre investments in due course.

### Page 19

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
19
WESTPAC ECONOMICS19
SOUTH AUSTRALIA
... raise questions

### Page 20

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
20
WESTPAC ECONOMICS20
TASMANIA
Consumers outperform expectations …
Luka Belobrajdic
Economist
How has the state performed? State final demand grew
0.1%qtr in Q2, a lacklustre return to growth following last
quarter’s –0.9%qtr decline. Even so, annual growth slowed
to –3.2%yr, the weakest result since the pandemic, as

base effects associated with the Spirit of Tasmania project
continued to unwind. Household consumption provided the
only meaningful support, rising 0.6%qtr, while investment
remained the key drag. Private investment fell 1.2%qtr,
driven primarily by dwellings (–3.5%qtr), while new business
investment also detracted from growth (–0.7%qtr). New
public demand continued to soften, falling 0.3%qtr, with a
modest rise in government consumption (0.1%qtr) offset by a

decline in new public investment (–1.7%qtr).
A key stat that tells the story.  Tasmania’s employment-to-
population ratio remains the lowest in the nation, at 58.0%
in July. The unemployment rate is also elevated at 5.1% on a
three-month average basis, while wage growth is the weakest
among the states at 2.9%yr in Q2. Combined with population
growth of just 0.5%yr, these conditions provide little scope for
a strong household demand impulse.
What has surprised?  The resilience in household consumption

has been somewhat surprising. Spending rose 0.6%qtr,
outpacing the national result despite a soft labour market and
Hobart inflation running 0.8ppts above the national average.
How can things improve? While Tasmania’s participation in the
national renewables and data-centre boom has been modest
to date, interest is rising. The proposed Firmus developments
at Bell Bay highlight the state’s potential for energy-intensive
digital infrastructure, though electricity availability is a key

consideration, with Hydro Tasmania assessing future energy
needs and system impacts. Over time, projects such as Marinus
Link could support additional renewable generation, strengthen
energy security and expand opportunities for electricity exports
and energy-intensive industries.
What are we expecting? We estimate Tasmania’s GSP to have
grown a respectable 2.5%yr in FY26. Elevated zinc, aluminium
and dairy prices through the first half of 2026 likely supported

exports and provided a solid boost to activity. The result was
also aided by favourable base effects following completion of
the Spirit of Tasmania project in 2025, which weighed on growth
through higher imports. Looking ahead, growth is expected
to slow to 1.4%yr in FY27 and 1.1%yr in FY28 as elevated
interest rates continue to weigh on activity, with private-sector
momentum only partially offsetting a softer public sector.
A weak labour market, elevated inflation and a structurally

higher share of spending on essentials are likely to constrain
household demand in this environment. Further out, investment
in renewables and energy infrastructure should provide a
more durable source of expansion, while also strengthening
Tasmania’s appeal as a destination for data-centre investment.

### Page 21

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
21
WESTPAC ECONOMICS21
TASMANIA
… but broader weakness persists

### Page 22

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
22
WESTPAC ECONOMICS22
FORECASTS
2024/25 2025/26 2026/27 2027/28
Actual Govt f/c Westpac Est Govt f/c Westpac f/c Govt f/c Westpac f/c
Gross State Product (GSP) Aust (GDP) 1.3 2¼ 2.3 1¾ 1.7 2¼ 1.8
year-average growth NSW 0.9 1¾ 2.1 1.0 1.5 1.0 1.6
Vic 1.1 1¾ 1.7 1½ 1.5 2.0 1.7

Qld 2.2 2½ 2.5 1¾ 2.0 2.0 2.0
WA 1.3 3¼ 2.4 2¼ 1.9 2.0 1.9
SA 1.0 2¼ 2.8 1¾ 1.8 2.0 1.7
Tas 1.0 2¼ 2.5 ¾ 1.4 2¼ 1.1
GSP per capita Aust –0.3 – 0.8 – 0.3 – 0.5
year-average growth NSW –0.3 – 1.0 – 0.3 – 0.6
Vic –0.6 – 0.1 – –0.2 – 0.0
Qld 0.4 – 0.8 – 0.3 – 0.7
WA –1.1 – 0.4 – 0.3 – 0.4
SA –0.1 – 1.9 – 1.0 – 0.9
Tas 0.6 – 2.0 – 0.9 – 0.6
Employment Aust^ 2.2 1½ 1.3 1½ 1.7 1¾ 1.9
year-average growth NSW 1.5 1.0 0.9 1¼ 1.6 1.0 1.4
Vic 2.4 1½ 1.1 1¼ 1.8 1½ 2.2

Qld^ 3.1 1½ 1.4 1¼ 1.3 1¼ 2.1
WA 3.1 1½ 1.6 1¾ 2.2 1½ 2.2
SA 1.3 3¼ 3.0 1.0 2.1 1.0 2.1
Tas –0.9 ¾ 0.8 –½ 0.9 1¼ 1.3
* Government forecasts for Australia are a weighted average of the state government forecasts. State government forecasts are from the most recent state budget update. Westpac’s state
numbers are calculated to be consistent with the national forecasts. Westpac GSP estimate based on state final demand, state international trade flows and national figures on inventories.

^ Through-the-year growth.
Forecasts

### Page 24

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

### Page 25

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

---
## Document 408: 【投研報告】元大晨訊_2026.09.24_經濟動能強勁推升升息預期，全球股市漲跌互見

Source PDF: all report pdf/【投研報告】元大晨訊_2026.09.24_經濟動能強勁推升升息預期，全球股市漲跌互見.pdf
Report source: Yuanta (每日焦點)
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

September 24, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 1

標普500 那斯達克 費半指數 日經225 台灣加權 美元兌台幣
7,706.03   26,936.04 12,534.28 65,018.95 48,157.29   5.114 % 31.706      
+12.7 +104.2 +2.8 +882.7 +892.8 +15.29 bps -0.012
-0.75% -1.13% -1.23% +1.38% +0.75% -1.50%
10年美債

美國與歐洲市場 
 美國經濟活動持續擴張，且投入成本與就業同步走強，使市場擔憂通膨壓力難以消退，進一步
加深市場對聯準會可能續升息的疑慮，高評價成長股承受賣壓，風險偏好降溫。 道瓊指數下跌
0.68%、標普 500 指數下跌 0.75%、那斯達克指數下跌 1.13%、費半下跌 1.23%。 
 由於伊朗對荷姆茲海峽航運釋出強硬訊號，再度引發市場對中東衝突升溫及原油供應受阻的擔
憂，帶動國際油價走揚，泛歐 600 指數開高走低，終場下跌 0.44%。 
亞洲與新興市場 
 日本因適逢敬老節假期，自 9 月 21 日至 9 月 23 日休市三日。 
 周三台積電及鴻海走揚，加上台泥受惠成功拓展東歐市場，以及功率元件族群受惠漲價題材帶
動，股價表現亮眼，推升台股早盤一度大漲逾500 點，最高來到48,341.56 點，隨後漲幅收斂，
終場仍上漲 0.75%，收 48,157.29 點，成功站上 48,000 點整數關卡。 
 中國股市週三盤面資金聚焦 PCB、玻璃基板及科學儀器等科技題材；煤炭及傳媒類股則表現疲
弱。兩市成交額縮減至 1.78 兆元人民幣 ， 顯示投資人觀望情緒升溫 ， 終場上證指數下跌0.39%。 
商品市場 
 黃金：受美國 PMI 強於預期、聯準會官員偏鷹發言以及美元走強，提高持有無息資產黃金的
機會成本，進而壓抑金價表現，黃金下跌 1.33%。 
 原油：伊朗對荷姆茲海峽航運釋出強硬訊號，提升能源運輸中斷風險；此外，美國政府研議限
制柴油出口或推動業者自願減少出口，進一步凸顯全球成品油供應偏緊，終場布蘭特原油上漲
3.86%；然而，因美國原油庫存上周意外增加，西德州原油下跌 2.57%。 
債市與外匯 
 美債：美國 9 月綜合 PMI 升至 58.4、創 2021 年以來新高，加上聯準會官員偏鷹發言，以及 5
年期公債標售需求疲弱，強化市場對後續升息的預期，美債殖利率全面走升。 
 美元：受美國 PMI 強於預期與美債殖利率全面上行帶動，市場重新提高對後續升息路徑的押
注，美元指數上漲 0.49%，連續四個交易日上漲。 
資料來源：元大投顧、鉅亨網、Bloomberg 
   國際金融市場焦點

### Page 2

September 24, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 2 
全球金融市場行情

標   的 最新收盤 漲跌幅% 標   的 最新收盤 漲跌幅%
道瓊工業指數 51511.59 -0.68 CRB商品指數 419.74 0.25
S&P 500指數 7706.03 -0.75 Comex黃金期貨 4284.80 -1.33 
那斯達克指數 26936.04 -1.13 布蘭特原油期貨 103.08 3.86
羅素2000指數 2838.66 -1.77 西德州原油期貨 92.16 -2.57 
巴西聖保羅指數 185814.09 -0.86 CMX銅價期貨 667.80 -1.21 
墨西哥BOLSA指數 64276.72 -0.28 鐵礦砂現貨價 96.50 -1.03 
道瓊歐洲600指數 639.92 -0.44 美國SOFR擔保隔拆利率 3.870 2.00
MSCI歐洲小型股指數 707.89 -0.76 美國3月國庫券利率 4.125 3.08
英國金融時報100指數 10705.26 -0.03 美國2年公債殖利率 4.897 14.38
法國巴黎券商公會40指數 8123.41 -0.39 美國10年公債殖利率 5.114 15.29
德國法蘭克福DAX指數 25410.63 -0.66 美國30年公債殖利率 5.399 9.94
土耳其 13251.85 -5.88 德國2年公債殖利率 3.330 10.30
彭博沙烏地阿拉伯指數 1394.02 0.00 德國10年公債殖利率 3.555 9.20
澳洲標準普爾200指數 8765.29 0.09 義大利10年公債殖利率 4.502 14.60
日經225指數 65018.95 1.38 中國10年公債殖利率 1.674 -0.10 
東証指數 4091.14 -0.07 美國綜合債券ETF (BND) 70.81 -0.84 
上海證交所綜合指數 3936.52 -0.39 美國投資級公司債ETF (LQD) 103.89 -1.14 
香港恆生指數 24834.12 -1.01 美國高收益債ETF (JNK) 93.97 -0.79 
恆生中國企業指數 8273.81 -1.06 新興市場債券ETF (EMB) 92.66 -1.12 
南韓綜合股價指數 7080.92 0.90 美元指數 101.10 0.49
台灣加權指數 48157.29 0.75 歐元兌美元 1.138 -0.59 
新加坡富時海峽時報指數 5709.91 -0.24 美元兌日圓 158.32 0.59
泰國曼谷SET指數 1610.70 0.39 澳幣兌美元 0.704 -1.07 
菲律賓馬尼拉指數 5795.14 -0.33 美元兌南非幣 16.36 1.13
印尼雅加達指數 6374.91 1.56 美元兌境外人民幣 6.712 0.19
越南證交所指數 1801.65 -0.84 美元兌韓圜 1367.0 0.81
印度孟買SENSEX30指數 74828.25 0.40 美元兌俄羅斯盧布 84.90 0.93
費城半導體指數 12534.28 -1.23 美元兌巴西里爾 5.172 1.41
NBI生技指數 7015.52 -2.09 美元兌台幣 31.706 -1.50 
MSCI全球金屬礦業指數 594.20 -1.83 歐元兌台幣 36.23 -0.23 
費城金銀指數 386.98 -4.13 日圓兌台幣 0.201 -0.55 
AMEX能源股票指數 3006.92 0.72 澳幣兌台幣 22.33 -1.05 
DAX 農金企業指數 779.21 -0.40 南非幣兌台幣 1.939 -1.04 
FTSE ET50 綠能指數 584.64 -0.58 境外人民幣兌台幣 4.728 -0.16 
* 利率漲跌以基本點(Basis point)計算；資料來源：Bloomberg
美洲股市 原物料
價格
歐洲股市
債券及
貨幣市場
亞洲股市
主要匯價
類股指數
台幣匯價

### Page 3

September 24, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 3 
標普 500 指數 歐洲 600指數
日經 225 指數 台灣加權指數
美國10年期公債殖利率 美國 2年期公債殖利率
紐約油價期貨 黃金期貨
4900
5400
5900
6400
6900
7400
7900
8400
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9
460
510
560
610
660
710
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9
30000
35000
40000
45000
50000
55000
60000
65000
70000
75000
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9
17000
22000
27000
32000
37000
42000
47000
52000
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9
3.5
3.7
3.9
4.1
4.3
4.5
4.7
4.9
5.1
5.3
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.0
4.2
4.4
4.6
4.8
5.0
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9
2200
2700
3200
3700
4200
4700
5200
5700
2025/6/9
2025/7/9
2025/8/9
2025/9/9
2025/10/9
2025/11/9
2025/12/9
2026/1/9
2026/2/9
2026/3/9
2026/4/9
2026/5/9
2026/6/9
2026/7/9
2026/8/9
2026/9/9

資料來源：Bloomberg

### Page 4

September 24, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 4 
近期重要經濟數據

資料來源：Bloomberg 
日期時間 區域 活動紀事 期間 調查(中) 實際 前期
09/23/26 15:15 法國 標普全球法國製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 51 50.3 51.1
09/23/26 15:15 法國 標普全球法國服務業採購經理人指數 Sep P 48.3 51.4 48
09/23/26 15:15 法國 標普全球法國綜合採購經理人指數 Sep P 48.7 51.2 48.5
09/23/26 15:30 德國 標普全球/BME德國製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 54 53.8 54.3
09/23/26 16:00 歐元區 標普全球歐元區製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 52.6 52.7 52.7
09/23/26 16:30 英國 標普全球英國製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 51.5 52 51.7
09/23/26 16:30 英國 標普全球英國服務業採購經理人指數 Sep P 52 51.7 52.5
09/23/26 19:00 美國 MBA 貸款申請指數 Sep 18      -- -1.5% -4.1%
09/23/26 21:45 美國 標普全球美國製造業PMI Sep P 53.7 57 53.9
09/24/26 08:30 日本 標普全球日本採購經理人指數-製造業 Sep P      --      -- 54.9
09/24/26 16:00 德國 IFO企業景氣指數 Sep 89      -- 88.8
09/24/26 20:30 美國 首次申請失業救濟金人數 Sep 19 200k      -- 196k
09/24/26 22:00 美國 新屋銷售 Aug 616k      -- 607k
09/25/26 20:30 美國 耐久財訂單 Aug P -0.3%      -- 1.1%
09/25/26 22:00 美國 密西根大學市場氣氛 Sep F 47.5      -- 47.8
09/29/26 16:30 英國 抵押債許可件數 Aug      --      -- 56.1k
09/29/26 22:00 美國 經濟諮詢委員會消費者信心 Sep 91      -- 89.4
09/30/26 07:50 日本 工業生產(月比) Aug P      --      -- -0.2%
09/30/26 09:30 中國 製造業PMI Sep 50.1      -- 49.8
09/30/26 09:45 中國 瑞霆狗中國採購經理人指數-製造業 Sep      --      -- 51.5
09/30/26 14:00 英國 GDP(季比) 2Q F      --      -- 0.4%
09/30/26 14:00 英國 GDP年比 2Q F      --      -- 1.2%
09/30/26 14:45 法國 CPI-歐盟調和數據(年比) Sep P      --      -- 2.6%
09/30/26 14:45 法國 CPI(年比) Sep P      --      -- 2.4%
09/30/26 15:55 德國 失業人口變動 (千) Sep      --      -- 4.0k

---
## Document 415: 【特別報告】高利率環境短期難解，基本面穩健有助支撐股債市

Source PDF: all report pdf/【特別報告】高利率環境短期難解，基本面穩健有助支撐股債市.pdf
Report source: CTBC
Date: 2026-09-02
Pages: 9
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及
訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以下市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。投資建議均依市場變動而差異，投資前請務必留意市場最新訊息。本資料提及之經
濟走勢預測，不必然代表產品之績效，產品投資風險請詳閱產品說明書。
2026.9.2
特別報告-
高利率環境短期難解，基本面穩健有助支撐股債市

### Page 2

©  CTBC
高利率環境短期難解，基本面提供趨勢行情支撐
2資料來源：中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/2
◼ 貨幣政策與殖利率： 聯準會言論放鷹是為重塑
公信力，9月按兵不動仍為較高機率情境，然不
能排除聯準會為了強化政策訊號而進行 「象徵
性升息 」的可能性 。推演美債長天期殖利率
2H26偏高表現、1H27適度回落。
◼ 投資建議： 企業獲利和景氣維持成長 ，利率上
揚壓抑股市估值但研判為暫時性 ，高殖利率信
用債在緩升息環境下表現仍穩健 ，惟債務風險
未緩解，利率敏感度高的長債價格波動較大。
熱門議題/資產影響推估 市場焦點
➢ 8月以來全球公債殖利率上升：美國10年期公債利
率上探4.8%，30年期公債殖利率創下 2007年6月
以來新高，日本10年期公債殖利率創下 1996年以
來新高。主要受財政壓力 、地緣不確定性 、貨幣
政策等多重因素帶動。
➢ 推演殖利率 2H26偏高表現、1H27適度回落：本
行預估聯準會 2026年尚不至採取升息 ，然鷹派言
論將讓高利率環境短期難解 ，有待2027年通膨壓

力緩解，利率方能適度回落。
推演殖利率2H26偏高表現、1H27適度回落
• 環境分析-高利率環境短期難解 P4
• 事件說明-聯準會放鷹重塑公信力 P5
• 貨幣政策-仍有象徵性升息的可能 P6
• 外部風險-日本債匯造成間接影響 P7
• 投資觀點-基本面穩健改善支撐股
債市，惟利率敏感度高的長債衝
擊大
P8
熱門議題
市場影響

### Page 3

©  CTBC
美國10年期公債殖利率站上4.8%，股市情緒受到影響但未失控
美債殖利率曲線短端因反應通膨擔憂而上升
盤勢回顧
股市情緒受到影響但未失控，信用債普遍收紅
3
• 升息擔憂推升 10年期公債殖利率站上 4.8%，但信用債過去一個月總報酬仍為正值 ：聯準會主席華許在8月底
Jackson Hole央行年會釋出鷹派訊號，市場提高對9月升息的押注，再加上近期中東地緣政治風險又再推動油價
上漲，美國10年期公債殖利率站上4.8%整數關卡，短天期利率主要反映聯準會升息預期升幅高於長天期利率。利
率走升雖對信用債帶來壓力，但利差收斂及息收仍為總報酬帶來貢獻，過去一個月美國非投資級債及新興主權
債仍上漲0.5%，就連長天期公司債亦仍收紅。
• 股市情緒受到影響但未失控：華許於7月底FOMC會議表示通膨有進展，然8月偏鷹派表述之後股市情緒受到一
定程度影響，不過修正幅度不大，並未出現恐慌情緒。而長天期利率其實在 8月初就開始出現上行趨勢 ，不過
多數指數8月以來仍收正報酬，僅利率敏感性較強的地產和公用事業表現較為落後。

資料來源：左， Bloomberg ，2026/9/2，右，Bloomberg，2026/9/2。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/2
-4%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
世
界
指
數
新
興
指
數
標
普500
指
數
費
城
半
導
體
那
斯
達
克
科
技
非
核
心
消
費
金
融
地
產
能
源
公
用
事
業
健
護
8月以來 Jackson Hole以來
主要資產報酬率
0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1
新興當
地債
美非投
資級
新興企
業債
新興主
權債
長天期
投資級
短天期
投資級
▆  8月以來
3.7
3.9
4.1
4.3
4.5
4.7
4.9
5.1
5.3
5.5
1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y 20Y 30Y
9月2日 Jackson Hole前(8/27) 7月31日
0
5
10
15
1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y 20Y 30Y
Jackson Hole 以來 8月以來
殖利率％
殖利率變化（基點）

### Page 4

©  CTBC
「財政壓力+地緣不確定性+AI支出 」= 高利率環境短期難解
期限溢酬+升息預期共同推升殖利率居高不下
環境分析
資料來源：(左) NY Fed ，2026/9；(右)中國信託商業銀行編繪，2026/6。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/8
• 財政可持續性疑慮 +地緣衝突頻繁，推升風險溢價要求：觀察聯準會經濟學家的 ACM模型可發現 ，期限溢價
(承擔未來利率變動、通膨與供給風險所要求的額外補償報酬 )達80個基點，也是去年以來美債殖利率走勢和降
息趨勢背離的主因。其中，近年地緣政治風險不確定性提高，以及主要國家推動大規模財政政策，使得財政與
債務可持續性疑慮不斷升溫等結構性因素，是市場對持有長端債券要求的風險貼水不斷增加。
• AI資本支出進一步推升中性利率水準：短期間，AI浪潮帶動科技巨頭大幅增加資料中心、AI晶片、電力基礎設
施及雲端設備投資，使企業資本支出需求顯著上升，推升整體資金需求，帶動實質利率走揚。長期而言，隨著
AI帶動生產力的顯著提升，增強了企業投資報酬率與經濟體的潛在成長率，經濟便能承受較高利率水準，促使

市場上修中性利率(r*)預估。
AI資本支出進一步推升中性利率水準
2.5
3.5
4.5
5.5
-1.00
-0.75
-0.50
-0.25
0.00
0.25
0.50
0.75
1.00
08/22
11/22
02/23
05/23
08/23
11/23
02/24
05/24
08/24
11/24
02/25
05/25
08/25
11/25
02/26
05/26
08/26
ACM期限溢價(左) 10年期國債收益率 ACM中性利率
(%) (%)
4

### Page 5

©  CTBC
聯準會放鷹重塑公信力，核心目的仍為穩定長天期利率
升息預期降溫時期，長天期利率卻不降反升
事件說明
通膨已見高峰，然需待2Q27方見明顯下滑
• 華許放鷹，重燃升息預期：聯準會主席華許在7月底FOMC會議表示通膨有進展，8月公布的數據也驗證該看法，
升息預期一度大幅降溫，但8月底JacksonHole他卻展現相當鷹派的論調，9月升息的機率再度回升到50%以上。
• 鴿派論述無法壓制長天期利率，聯準會轉換策略：市場近期呈現一種較特殊的現象，當升息預期下降、短端利
率回落時，長天期公債殖利率卻不降反升，甚至迫使財政部透過公債回購政策來緩和壓力。這可能反映市場擔
憂聯準會過早轉向鴿派，進而削弱其長期抗通膨的公信力，促使部分投資人減持長天期美債。在此背景下，本
行認為華許轉趨鷹派的重要目的之一，是維持市場對聯準會抗通膨決心的信任。若9月公布的8月通膨數據符合預
期，9月FOMC按兵不動仍為較高機率情境。在聯準會維持鷹派但不升息的情境下，本行預估下半年美國10年期
公債殖利率的區間將處於4.5%-4.8%，美國30年期公債殖利率則在5.1%-5.5%之間。

資料來源：左， Bloomberg ，2026/9，右，高盛，2026/9。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9
4.2
4.3
4.4
4.5
4.6
4.7
4.8
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
2026/5 2026/6 2026/7 2026/8
9月升息一碼的機率(左)
美國10年期公債殖利率(右)
7月FOMC
華許表示通
膨有進展
8月Jackson Hole
華許表示通膨潛在
趨勢沒有明確改善
5月
華許接任 1
2
3
4
5
6
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
美國PCE通膨
美國核心PCE通膨
高峰出現在2026/5,
然短線仍偏高
2Q27將有望
回到2%
5

### Page 6

©  CTBC
進入緊縮周期的機率低，短線影響股債行情但不影響趨勢
推演殖利率2H26偏高表現、1H27適度回落
貨幣政策
過往在景氣高峰下利率上揚，本益比多半承壓
• 進入緊縮周期的機率低：雖然不能排除聯準會為了強化政策訊號與維持公信力，而進行「象徵性升息」，也就是
短期的政策微調。但以目前的通膨與就業數據趨勢來看，並不會是新一輪升息循環的起點。通膨壓力在2027上
半年預估將有較明顯的緩解，屆時聯準會的立場將再轉換。
• 聯準會若升息，10年期利率或先上探5%，暫時壓抑股市估值：推演後續路徑，長天期殖利率將呈現2H26偏高
表現，1H27殖利率適度回落的格局。但若聯準會2H26升息，市場第一時間將因擔憂持續性升息的可能，而使
美國10年期公債殖利率先上探 5%。從長週期角度而言，利率與景氣及股市評價走勢亦步亦趨 ，不過當景氣處
於高峰時利率上揚，本益比多半承壓，因為景氣高峰意味企業獲利再成長空間有限，或股價已經被充分評價。
考量AI基礎建設資本支出週期尚未結束，企業獲利仍保持兩位數成長下，利率上揚對估值的壓抑研判為暫時性。

資料來源：左， 中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9，右，Bloomberg，2026/9。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9
2H26
殖利率偏高表現
1H27
殖利率適度回落
通膨 通膨高峰已現，然
PCE仍處在3%以上
PCE回落3%以下
往2%目標靠近
FED 維持鷹派言論 轉換至較鴿派論述
財政部 以回購政策降低殖利率失序上行風險
地緣 美伊情勢膠著
能源/通膨風險仍存 觀察地緣是否緩解 30
40
50
60
70
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
標普500本益比(倍) 10年期公債利率(右，%)
ISM PMI
6

### Page 7

©  CTBC
日本債匯承壓，利差交易平倉與干預日圓皆對美債形成干擾風險
外部風險
資料來源：(左)Bloomberg，2026/8；(右)日本央行，2026/9。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9
• 《日本成長戰略》+史上最大預算案，日債匯市面臨拋售壓力：5月日本政府擬推動規模達370兆日圓的《日本
成長戰略》後，市場對財政可持續性的疑慮快速升溫，5~8月內外資合計賣超20兆日圓日本公債；隨後日本政
府提出2027財年預算達到143兆日圓、年增16%，加上美國持續對日本升息施加壓力，日本利匯率持續承壓。
• 日本如暴力升息或引發利差交易平倉衝擊美債，然債務壓力限制下機率不高：今年美日利差在日本貨幣政策正
常化後罕見擴大，利差交易餘額(日本金融機構轉移海外資產 )較過去兩年明顯增加，若日本升息過快或日圓快
速升值，觸發利差交易平倉至美債部位減碼影響較大。同時，若日圓貶值壓力失控，財務省加大出售美元資產
進行匯市干預，可能增加美債賣壓推升殖利率，加劇金融市場波動。然美國已設立FIMA Repo機制避免日本大

量賣出美債；而日本債務壓力承重、升息速度受限，加以美債利率維持高檔，短期利差交易大量平倉誘因有限。
7
150
152
154
156
158
160
162
164
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
10/25
11/25
12/25
01/26
02/26
03/26
04/26
05/26
06/26
07/26
08/26
(國外)淨買入日債 (國內)淨買入日債 日元(千億日圓)
財政疑慮，日本債匯雙重承壓 日本金融機構轉移海外資產，較過去兩年增加
100
120
140
160
180
200
06/24
09/24
12/24
03/25
06/25
09/25
12/25
03/26
06/26
日本內外資銀行轉移海外資產
(Yen Carry Trade潛在金額)
(千億日圓)

### Page 8

©  CTBC
利率敏感度高的長債波動上升，然基本面穩健支撐股債市
2016年聯準會升息循環未對信用債帶來嚴重衝擊
投資觀點
資料來源：(左) Bloomberg、BofA，2026/4/7；(右) Bloomberg，2026/9/1 。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/1
• 高殖利率信用債在緩升息環境下表現仍穩健：公債利率持續反映升息預期，市場擔憂信用債出現如2022年般重
挫，然而貨幣政策不變仍為目前基本情境，再者，每次升息大環境不同，美國通膨已見觸頂向下、也不像2022
年時嚴峻，就算升息應只是短暫政策調整 ，信用債表現預期較類似2015年緩升息循環：美 10年期公債利率緩
升，經濟成長持穩支撐信用債上漲。預期在企業獲利及景氣成長循環未結束前，非投資級債這類高殖利率資產
在穩健債信支持下波動可望降低，惟債務風險未緩解，利率敏感度高的長債(尤其是25年以上)價格波動仍大。
• 短線利率反彈，雖然基本面支持輪動，但資金高度參與下須保留部位彈性：過去利率自波段低點回升期間，股
市多能同步上漲，反映殖利率上升通常與景氣及企業獲利改善有關。本次多了財政壓力的結構性因素，限縮未

來幾個月的指數空間，但企業獲利穩健成長的基本趨勢不變，資金並未撤出股市，而是轉向加快輪動布局速度，
投資上仍建議降低單一主題集中度，並且適度提高部位彈性，利用市場震盪時布局投資機會。
過去長天期利率反彈期間美股表現多偏正向
8
升息前後報酬率(%)
30年期公債殖利率反彈100基點以上期間美股報酬(統計1990以來)
-25
-15
-5
5
短天期投資級 長天期投資級 非投資級債 新興主權 新興企業
-5
0
5
10
15
20
升息前三個月 後1個月 後3個月 後6個月 後1年
2022年升息循環
2015年升息循環 升息後
波段低點 30Y殖利率 波段高點 30Y殖利率 變動(bp) SPX
同期報酬
Oct-93 5.97% Nov-94 8.00% 203 -3.0%
Jan-96 6.03% Aug-96 7.12% 109 2.5%
Sep-98 4.98% Jan-00 6.49% 151 37.1%
Jun-05 4.19% May-06 5.23% 104 6.6%

Dec-08 2.68% Mar-10 4.71% 204 29.5%
Jul-12 2.55% Dec-13 3.97% 142 34.0%
Jul-16 2.18% Oct-18 3.39% 121 24.8%
平均 148 18.8%
中位數 142 24.8%

### Page 9

©  CTBC 9
近期重點投資分析報告
2026/6/8【特別報告】
地緣與央行變數為焦點，高槓桿放大市場波動(完整報告請點)
2026/7/31【特別報告】
ＡＩ族群去槓桿投資交易，將加速市場輪動機會(完整報告請點)
2026/8/31【中信策略觀點】
景氣韌性與高利率拉鋸＿多元配置參與市場輪(完整報告請點)
2026/7/15【趨勢主題】
２０２６年下半年全球金融市場展望
高利新常態下的經濟成長韌性(完整報告請點)

---
## Document 433: インド･８月インフレ率は前年比＋4.82％と､３ヵ月連続で４％超え ～コアインフレ率も４％を上回る伸びに加速､幅広くインフレ圧力が強まっている～

Source PDF: all report pdf/インド･８月インフレ率は前年比＋4.82％と､３ヵ月連続で４％超え ～コアインフレ率も４％を上回る伸びに加速､幅広くインフレ圧力が強まっている～.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Asia Indicators

2026 年 9 月 18 日

1/4 
インド･８月インフレ率は前年比＋4.82％と､３ヵ月連続で４％超え 
～コアインフレ率も４％を上回る伸びに加速､幅広くインフレ圧力が強まっている～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（経済指標の振り返り） 
発表日 指標、イベントなど 結果 コンセンサス 前回 
9/14（月） （インド）8 月消費者物価（前年比） ＋4.82％ ＋4.80％ ＋4.45％ 
9/15（火） （中国）8 月鉱工業生産（前年比） 
8 月小売売上高（前年比） 
8 月固定資産投資（年初来前年比） 
＋5.2％ 
＋0.4％ 
▲7.2％ 
＋4.8％ 
＋0.8％ 
▲7.2％ 
＋4.5％ 
＋0.6％ 
▲6.7％ 
9/17（木） （ニュージーランド）4-6 月実質 GDP（前年比） 
（シンガポール）8 月非石油輸出（前年比） 
（台湾）金融政策委員会（政策金利） 
＋2.6％ 
＋46.2％ 
2.000％ 
＋2.2％ 
＋35.3％ 
2.000％ 
＋1.7％ 
＋24.1％ 
2.000％ 
9/18（金） （ニュージーランド）8 月輸出（億 NZ ドル） 
8 月輸入（億 NZ ドル） 
（マレーシア）8 月消費者物価（前年比） 
8 月輸出（前年比） 
8 月輸入（前年比） 
66.6 
80.0 
＋1.9％ 
＋45.5％ 
＋41.1％ 
- - 
- - 
＋1.8％ 
＋37.9％ 
＋33.2％ 
72.2 
93.3 
＋1.8％ 
＋38.0％ 
＋36.4％ 
（注）コンセンサスは Bloomberg 及び THOMSON REUTERS 調査。灰色で囲んでいる指標は本レポートで解説を行っています。 
[インド]～インフレ率に加え､コアインフレ率も４％(目標の中央値)を上回り､全般的にインフレ圧力が高まる～ 
14 日に発表された８月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋4.82％となり、 前月 （同＋4.45％） から加速
して、３ヵ月連続でＲＢＩ（インド準備銀行）が定める目標（４±２％）の中央値を上回るととも
に、20 ヵ月ぶりの高い伸びとなった。 前月比は＋0.73％と前月 （同＋0.89％） からわずかに上昇ペ
ースが鈍化したものの、 生鮮品をはじめとする食料品価格は上昇基調が続いているほか、 イラン情
勢を巡る不透明感の高まりを受けた原油高によりエネルギー価格も上昇しており、 生活必需品を中
心にインフレ圧力が強まっている。食料品とエネルギーを除いたコアインフレ率も、 前年同月比＋
4.16％と前月（同＋3.87％）から加速して８ヵ月ぶりの高い伸びとなるとともに、４％を上回って
いる。前月比も＋0.55％と前月（同＋0.26％）から上昇ペースが加速しており、エネルギー価格の
上昇に伴う輸送コストの押し上げに加え、 金融市場における通貨ルピー安による輸入物価の上昇も
重なり、幅広い財で価格上昇の動きがみられる。さらに、サービス物価も幅広く上昇しており、イ
ンフレ圧力が全般的に強まっている様子がうかがえる。

### Page 2

2/4

[ニュージーランド]～乳製品、食肉、果物などで輸出は持ち直す一方、原油価格の下落が輸入を下押し～ 
18 日に発表された８月の輸出額は前年同月比＋15.4％となり、 前月 （同＋10.8％） から伸びが加
速した。前月比も＋7.0％と前月（同▲4.4％）から２ヵ月ぶりの拡大に転じるとともに、中期的な
基調も拡大傾向で推移するなど、持ち直しの動きが続いている。財別では、主力の輸出財である乳
製品、食肉、木材・木製品の輸出が軒並み拡大しているほか、機械製品関連や果物など幅広い分野
で輸出が拡大する動きがみられる。 国・地域別では、 最大の輸出相手である中国向けのほか、ASEAN
（東南アジア諸国連合）などアジア新興国向け、米国向けが減少する一方、欧州向けに底堅い動き
がみられるほか、隣国オーストラリア向けや日本向けの堅調さが輸出を下支えしている。一方、輸
入額は前年同月比＋13.1％となり、 前月 （同＋28.4％） から伸びが鈍化した。 前月比も▲8.4％とな
り、 前月 （同＋2.8％） から２ヵ月ぶりの減少に転じるとともに、 中期的な基調も減少傾向に転じる
など、頭打ちの動きがみられる。財別では、原油価格の下落を反映して原油・石油製品の輸入額に
大幅な下押し圧力がかかったほか、機械製品関連の輸入額も頭打ちしている。その結果、貿易収支
は▲13.49 億ＮＺドルとなり、前月（▲21.18 億ＮＺドル）から赤字幅が縮小した。

[マレーシア]～８月のコアインフレ率はわずかに伸びが鈍化も､幅広くインフレ圧力が強まる動き～ 
18 日に発表された８月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋1.9％となり、 前月 （同＋1.8％） からわずか
に伸びが加速した。前月比も＋0.29％と前月（同＋0.00％）から上昇ペースが加速しており、原油
価格の上昇が一服するなかでもエネルギー価格は上昇基調が続いているほか、 生鮮品をはじめとす
る食料品価格も上昇しており、 生活必需品を中心にインフレ圧力が強まっていることが影響してい
図 1 IN インフレ率の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成   
図 2 NZ 貿易動向の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 3

3/4 
る。なお、食料品とエネルギーを除いたコアインフレ率は前年同月比＋1.7％と前月（同＋1.8％）
からわずかに鈍化し、2024 年12 月以来の低い伸びとなった。 しかし、 前月比は＋0.29％と前月 （同
＋0.00％） から上昇ペースが加速しており、 エネルギー価格の上昇を反映して輸送コストが押し上
げられるなか、 幅広い財の価格が上昇しているほか、 堅調な雇用環境を受けてサービス物価も上昇
基調を強めるなど、幅広くインフレ圧力が強まる動きがみられる。 
同日に発表された８月の輸出額は前年同月比＋45.5％となり、前月（同＋38.0％）から伸びが加
速した。前月比も＋1.3％と前月（同＋9.8％）に続き２ヵ月連続で拡大しており、中期的な基調も
拡大傾向で推移するなど、持ち直しの動きが続いている。財別では、商品市況の調整を反映して鉱
物資源関連や化学製品関連の輸出に下押し圧力がかかるとともに、 食料品関連の輸出も鈍化する一
方、 世界的なＡＩ （人工知能） ・ 半導体関連需要の旺盛さを反映して電子部品関連や電気機械関連の
輸出は堅調に推移しているほか、原油・天然ガス関連の輸出も底堅い動きをみせている。国・地域
別では、 ＥＵ （欧州連合） 向けや中東向けが鈍化する一方、 最大の輸出相手である中国向けのほか、
ASEAN（東南アジア諸国連合）向け、米国向け、日本向けなどの底堅さが輸出全体を下支えしてい
る。一方、輸入額は前年同月比＋41.1％となり、前月（同＋36.3％）から伸びが加速した。前月比
も＋1.2％と前月（同＋0.1％）に続いて３ヵ月連続で拡大しており、中期的な基調も拡大傾向で推
移するなど、輸出同様に持ち直しの動きが続いている。輸出の堅調さを反映して、素材・部材など
中間財の輸入が堅調に推移しているほか、 資本財の輸入にも底堅さがみられる一方、 消費財の輸入
は対照的に力強さを欠いている。 その結果、 貿易収支は＋280.89 億リンギとなり、 前月 （＋225.33
億リンギ）から黒字幅が拡大している。

[シンガポール]～半導体に一服感も､化学製品関連や飲食料品関連など幅広く輸出で持ち直しが続く～ 
17 日に発表された８月の非石油輸出額は前年同月比＋46.2％となり、 前月 （同＋24.1％） から伸
びが加速した。 前月比も＋10.87％と前月 （同▲0.34％） から３ヵ月ぶりの拡大に転じており、 中期
的な基調も拡大傾向に転じるなど、持ち直しの動きを強めている。財別では、主力の輸出財である
半導体など電子部品関連のほか、 電気機械関連の輸出に下押し圧力がかかる動きがみられるものの、
電気バルブ関連のほか、 医薬品をはじめとする化学製品関連、 飲食料品関連の堅調な動きが輸出全
体を押し上げている。原油関連を合わせた総輸出額も前年同月比＋49.2％となり、 前月 （同＋40.5％）
から伸びが加速した。前月比も＋3.2％と前月（同＋0.0％）から３ヵ月連続で拡大しており、中期
図 3 MY インフレ率の推移       図 4 MY 貿易動向の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成  （出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 4

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
4/4 
的な基調も拡大傾向に転じるなど、 持ち直しの動きがみられる。一方、 輸入額は前年同月比＋39.3％
となり、前月（同＋35.9％）から伸びが加速した。前月比は▲0.2％と前月（同＋4.2％）から２ヵ
月ぶりの減少に転じており、中期的な基調も減少傾向で推移するなど、頭打ちの動きがみられる。
財別では、 原油価格の下落を反映して原油をはじめとするエネルギー関連の輸入額が下振れしたほ
か、電子部品関連や電気機械関連に加え、素材・部材関連の輸入も下振れするなど、輸出とは対照
的な動きをみせている。その結果、貿易収支は＋124.78 億ＳＧドルとなり、前月（＋127.93 億Ｓ
Ｇドル）から黒字幅が縮小している。

以 上 
図 5 SG 貿易動向の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

---
## Document 448: ノルウェー政府年金基金が日本国債を増やす理由 ～債券運用の見直し提言を読み解く～

Source PDF: all report pdf/ノルウェー政府年金基金が日本国債を増やす理由 ～債券運用の見直し提言を読み解く～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-16
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Research Report

2026 年 9 月 16 日

1/5 
ノルウェー政府年金基金が日本国債を増やす理由 
～債券運用の見直し提言を読み解く～ 
 政策調査部 主席研究員  奥田 宏二

（要旨） 
○ ノルウェー政府年金基金（注 1）の運用を担うノルウェー銀行（中央銀行）は 2026 年 9 月、
債券運用の見直しを財務省に提言した。国債の割合を縮小するとともに、国債の国別配分を
GDP 加重から市場規模に応じた方式へ変更する内容だ。 
○ 見直しが実施されれば、国債の国別配分では日本の比率が 7.0％から 15.9％へ上昇する。債
券全体に占める円建て資産も約 5％から約 8％へ高まり、2026 年 6 月末の基金規模を基準に
機械的に計算すると、円建て資産の増加額は約2,000 億クローネ（3 兆円強）に相当する。 
○ 日本の比率が大きく上昇する背景には、政府債務の増加が他の先進国にも広がったことがあ
る。特定の高債務国への投資を抑える意義が薄れる一方、日本は経済規模に比べて国債市場
が大きいため、市場規模を基準にすると比率が大幅に上昇する。 
○ 日本国債の買い増しが実施されれば、円安の抑制や長期金利の押し下げにつながる可能性が
ある。ただ、今回の見直し提言は日本の財政への評価が高まった結果というより、国別配分
の基準変更によるものだ。海外投資家の存在感が高まれば、日本の財政運営が海外市場から
どう評価されるかも、これまで以上に重要になる。

1. はじめに 
ノルウェー政府年金基金（注 1）の運用を担うノルウェー銀行（中央銀行）は2026 年 9 月、債
券運用の見直しを財務省に提言した。見直しによって債券運用に占める国債の割合を66.3％から
50％に引き下げるとともに、国別の配分を決める際の基準を変更する。 
現在の債券運用では、経済規模を示すGDPを基準に国別の配分を決めている。この基準では、日
本のように経済規模に比べて政府債務が大きい国の国債比率は低くなる。ところが近年は、多く
の国で政府債務が増えており、現在の方式が財政リスクを適切に捉えているのか、改めて検討す
る必要が生じた。これが今回の見直しを提言した理由の一つだ。 
見直しの是非は2027 年に判断される見通しだ（注2）。見直しが実施された場合、日本国債の買
い増しにつながり、円安と長期金利の上昇に悩む日本政府にとっては、思わぬ援軍となる可能性
がある。

### Page 2

2/5 
本稿では、日本国債の保有割合が低くなっていた背景と、見直しに至った考え方を整理する。
あわせて国債の割合を大幅に引き下げる理由を確認し、最後に今回の見直しがどのような意味を
持つのかを考える。

2. 見直しで円建て資産の比率は 5％から 8％に上昇 
ノルウェー政府年金基金は2026 年6 月末で22.7 兆クローネ（約372 兆円）を運用する世界最
大級の機関投資家だ。基本となる資産配分は株式70％、債券30％で、資産はノルウェー国外で運
用している。 
債券部分では、国債などの政府債を中心に運用している。このうち政府債の国別配分は、各国
のGDPの大きさに応じて決めている。こうした方式を「GDP加重」という。現在のGDP加重における
日本国債の比率は7.0％だ。これを市場規模に応じた配分に変えると、15.9％に上昇する。日本は
経済規模に対して国債市場が大きく、見直しの影響が大きく出やすい。 
見直し後の債券ベンチマーク全体でみると、円建て資産の比率は現在の約5％から約8％へ上昇
する。これを2026 年 6 月末の基金の規模と債券比率30％に当てはめて機械的に計算すると、円建
て資産の増加額は約2,000 億クローネ（3 兆円強）に相当する（注3）。 
国別配分の基準変更の影響を主要国でみると、米国は48.1％から43.4％へ低下し、ユーロ圏は
26.9％から28.5％、英国は5.9％から 6.9％へ上昇する（資料1）。日本の変化幅は特に大きいこ
とが分かる。

資料 1 GDP加重と市場加重でみた主要国・地域の比率

（注）債券ベンチマークの政府債部分について、2026 年 6 月末時点の国・地域別比率を比較したもの。対象は先進国・先進国通
貨で、ノルウェー債およびノルウェークローネ建て債券を除く。公表値は小数点第 1 位までのため、合計が 100％にならない場
合がある。 
（出所）Norges Bank「The Government Pension Fund Global – analyses and assessments of the investment strategy for bonds」

### Page 3

3/5 
（2026 年 9 月 1 日）より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成。

3. 変更の背景  
ノルウェー政府年金基金が2012 年にGDP加重を採用した狙いは、高債務国への国債投資を抑え
ることにあった。市場加重では、国債を多く発行した国ほど指数の比率が高まる。財政赤字が拡
大し、債務が増えた国への投資額が増える仕組みを、そのまま国債運用の基準にしてよいのかと
いう問題意識だ。 
GDP加重の仕組みが最も強く働いた国の一つが日本だった。前章でみたように、日本国債はGDP
加重によって市場加重より大幅に低い比率に抑えられてきた。ところが、多くの先進国で政府債
務が増えた。ノルウェー銀行は、 「高い政府債務は、特に日本や一部のユーロ圏諸国にみられる個
別国の特徴から、先進国により広くみられる特徴へと変わった」と指摘している（注4）。 
この意味で、今回日本国債の比率が上がるのは、日本財政への評価が高まったからというよ
り、高い政府債務が他の先進国にも広がった結果とみるべきだろう。 
また、ノルウェー銀行は市場加重についても評価を改めている。市場では、政府の財政状況に
加え、経済成長やインフレなど多くの情報が国債価格や金利に反映される。財政への懸念が強ま
れば金利が上昇し、債券価格が下がることで市場での評価も変化する。このため、国債市場の規
模に応じて配分する方式を基本とする考えを示した。 
なお、過去の運用成績だけをみると、GDP加重は2001～25 年に市場加重を上回った。しかしノ
ルウェー銀行は、その超過収益の大きな部分が、日本国債を少なく持ったことと近年の円安によ
って生じたと分析している。過去の結果が良かったことを、GDPが財政リスクを測る優れた指標だ
った証拠とは評価していない点は興味深い。

4.  日本国債は増加する一方、国債全体の比率は引き下げ 
今回の提言では、債券運用に占める国債の割合を66.3％から50％へ引き下げる。ノルウェー政
府年金基金では、債券に三つの役割を求めてきた。①基金全体の値動きを抑えること、②株価下
落時のリバランスに必要な流動性を確保すること、③債券市場のリスクを引き受けることでリス
クプレミアムを獲得すること――の三つだ。ノルウェー銀行は、この三つの役割そのものは今も
変わらないとしたうえで、その役割を国債にどこまで担わせる必要があるかを検討した。 
国債が主に担う役割は、基金全体の値動きの抑制と流動性の確保だ。過去には株価下落時に国
債価格が上昇し、基金全体の値動きを抑える場面が多かった。また、市場規模が大きく、危機時
にも流動性を供給してきた。 
しかし、ノルウェー銀行は、将来の危機が政府債務や国債市場そのものを震源とする場合、国
債に従来と同じ値動き抑制効果を期待できないリスクを指摘した。 
流動性の確保という面では、株価が大きく下落し、債券を売って株式を買い増すような局面
で、必要となる債券売却額が債券運用の4 割弱に達するとの試算を示した（注5）。国債を50％保
有すれば、過去の厳しい局面を踏まえても一定の余裕を確保できるとし、国債の割合引き下げを

### Page 4

4/5 
提言した。 
国債を減らした部分には住宅ローン担保証券（MBS）や政府関係債などを組み入れる。MBSには
期限前返済リスク、政府関係債には信用リスクや流動性リスクを引き受ける対価として、それぞ
れリスクプレミアムが期待できる。

資料 2 債券ベンチマークの構成

（注）国債には物価連動国債を含む。本資料では前後の定義を揃え、国際機関債を除く国債で比較した。 
（出所）Norges Bank「The Government Pension Fund Global – analyses and assessments of the investment strategy for bonds」
（2026 年 9 月 1 日）より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成。

もっとも、これによって債券全体の期待リターンはほとんど変わらない。2026 年 6 月末時点の
試算では、提言後の期待リターンは4.04％で、現行の3.99％を0.05 ポイント上回るだけだ。デ
ュレーション調整後でも差は0.10 ポイントにすぎない（注6）。 
期待リターンがほとんど変わらないにもかかわらず、国債の比率を大きく引き下げようとして
いる。世界最大級の機関投資家が国債に対するスタンスを変えようとしている点は見逃せない。

5. 日本国債への追い風とその先 
これまでみてきた提言は日本にどのような意味を持つのだろうか。実施されれば、円安の抑制
や長期金利の押し下げに寄与する可能性がある。日本の財務省は、国債の安定的な消化に向け
て、海外を含む幅広い投資家による保有を促しており、投資家層の多様化にもつながる。 
海外投資家の存在感はすでに小さくない。2026 年 3 月末時点で海外投資家は国庫短期証券を除
く国債を82.0 兆円保有し、全体の8.1％を占める。国庫短期証券を含めると157.8 兆円、13.7％
に達する（注 7）。

### Page 5

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
5/5 
もっとも、海外投資家への依存が高まることには、別の側面もある。将来、国債消化を海外投
資家により多く依存する場合、日本の経済・財政運営が国内外の市場からどう評価されるかを一
段と意識する必要がある。 
政府債務の大きさを理由に低く抑えられてきた日本国債の比率が、その仕組みの見直しによっ
て上昇するのは日本にとって好材料だ。ただ、より重要なのはその先にある。新たな買い手を呼
び込む好材料の裏側で、日本の財政運営は海外投資家からこれまで以上に厳しく評価されること
になる。しかも今回の提言は、債券に占める国債の割合そのものを大きく下げる。日本国債の比
率上昇は、国債そのものへの評価引き上げというより、国別配分の基準を変える結果として生じ
るものだという点を忘れてはならない。

以 上

【注釈】 
1) 本稿の「ノルウェー政府年金基金」は、ノルウェー政府年金基金グローバル（GPFG）を指す。 
2) ノルウェー財務省が設置した専門家会議は2027 年 1 月25 日までに報告書を提出する予定。ノ
ルウェー銀行は、財務省が提言への方針を決めた後、具体的なベンチマークと実施計画を提示
するとしている。 
3) 基金規模22.7 兆クローネ、債券の戦略配分30％、円建て資産の比率が約5％から約8％へ上昇
するとして筆者が機械的に試算。円換算は2026 年 6 月30 日の 1 クローネ＝約16.4 円を使用。
同日時点の債券保有比率は25.8％であり、実際の為替取引額を示すものではない。 
4) Norges Bank「The Government Pension Fund Global – analyses and assessments of the 
investment strategy for bonds」（2026 年 9 月1 日） 。本文中の日本語は筆者訳。 
5) ノルウェー銀行による1973～2025 年のデータを使ったシミュレーション。特に厳しい5％のケ
ースでは、基金全体の最大11％、債券部分の4 割弱の売却が必要になると試算している。 
6) ノルウェー銀行の2026 年 6 月末時点の試算。提言後の期待リターンは4.04％、現行は
3.99％。デュレーションの違いを調整すると差は0.10 ポイントとなる。 
7) 海外投資家の保有額・比率は財務省「国債等の保有者別内訳（2026 年 3 月末・速報） 」。

---
## Document 451: マーケット見通し『厳選指標』(2026年10月号)

Source PDF: all report pdf/マーケット見通し『厳選指標』(2026年10月号).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

・   台湾は言わずと知れた、 半導体の生産集積地であり、
今や世界で最も注目すべき経済主体の一つです。 Ａ Ｉ 関
連投資の動向を把握する上で極めて重要な経済指標
があります。
・   それは毎月20日頃に発表される台湾企業の輸出受注
です。 輸出受注全体の ８ 割を占めるのは電子部品や情
報技術製品で、 そこに Ａ Ｉ を動かすために必要な半導体
関連製品が含まれます。 26年 ７ 月は前年比＋61.9％と
驚異的な伸び率でした。 製品価格が急騰し、 受注額を押
し上げた形です。
・   この指標は世界の代表的な半導体銘柄で構成される Ｓ
Ｏ Ｘ 指数と連動性があります。 25年春頃は トランプ関税
等の影響によってかい離が生じましたが、 それ以外の局
面で波形は一致してきました。 半導体銘柄を巡っては、
バブルも指摘されていますが、 この指標をみる限り、 裏
付けを伴った株価上昇と言えるのではないでし ょ うか。
このページでは筆者が注目する指標を四半期に一度解説します。 常に変化する金融市場参加者の関心を踏まえ、 その

時々の重要指標を選定します。
・   日本では 「賃金上昇率は高いほど良い」 といった風潮も
ありますが、 「物価の安定」 を考えた場合、 高すぎる賃金
上昇率は困りものです。 米国では2022年頃に賃金イ
ンフレに悩まされました。 賃金と物価は表裏一体の関
係にありますから、 賃金上昇率が高まりすぎると、 イン
フレを招いてしまいます。
・   労働者個々人で考えた場合、 10％の賃上げは嬉しいの
ですが、 それがマクロ的な現象になってしまえば、 イン
フレは ２ ％で済むはずがありません。 増加した労働コス
トが価格に転嫁されるからです。
・   その点、 最近の米国では賃金上昇率が鈍化しており、 安
心感があります。 雇用統計で示される平均時給は前年
比で ３ ％程度の軌道にあり、 方向感は下向きです。
・   FRBは関税と原油高に由来するインフレ圧力を警戒し
ていますが、 賃金上昇率の鈍化に鑑みると、 インフレの
基調は緩やかに鈍化すると筆者考えています。
資料1 台湾  輸出受注 ・ Ｓ Ｏ Ｘ指数

（出所） 台湾経済部,LSEGにより作成
資料2 米国　平均時給
（出所） ） 米雇用統計より作成
厳選指標 （9月10日時点）
経済調査部　主席エコノミス ト　藤代 宏一（ふじしろ こういち）
10第一ライフ研レポー ト 2026.10
マーケット見通し
マー ケット見 通し

---
## Document 454: 一只“电子宠物”，暴露了扎克伯格的AI硬件野心

Source PDF: all report pdf/一只“电子宠物”，暴露了扎克伯格的AI硬件野心.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

对 Meta ⽽⾔， Charm 承担的是⼀项具体的商业验证任务：在 Muse 已积累起⼀批愿意持续
使⽤、深度定制 AI ⻆⾊的核⼼⽤⼾之后，测试其中是否有⾜够多的⼈愿意为 AI 购买⼀个专
属的实体⼊⼝。换⾔之， Muse 已经回答了 " 有没有⼈愿意使⽤个⼈智能体 " ，⽽ Charm 要回
答的下⼀个问题是 " 有没有⼈愿意把个⼈智能体带在⾝上 " 。
摘要：
扎克伯格从⼝袋⾥掏出了⼀台可以挂在钥匙扣上的掌上设备，将⾃家最热⻔的 AI 助⼿ Muse 装进
了⼀个 2 英⼨的⼩屏幕。这款名为 Muse Charm 的产品，是 Meta 押注 " 个⼈超级智能 " 赛道之后，
向独⽴ AI 硬件领域迈出的第⼀步。
在当地时间 9 ⽉ 23 ⽇的 Meta Connect 年度⼤会上，扎克伯格亲⾃发布了这款设备。 Muse Charm
配备 5G 调制解调器，⽤⼾⽆需打开⼿机即可直接唤醒 Muse AI 助⼿。这⼀设计意图明确 ——绕
过苹果和⾕歌的操作系统⽣态，为 Meta 的 AI 构建⼀个属于⾃⼰的硬件⼊⼝。扎克伯格将其定义

为不佩戴智能眼镜时与 Muse 对话 " 最快的⽅式 " 。
Muse Charm 的发布时机颇具分量。 Muse 应⽤⾃ 9 ⽉ 8 ⽇上线以来，据 Sensor Tower 统计，约五
天内获得 73 万次下载，随后迅速突破 250 万次，⽇活跃⽤⼾数据超过 ChatGPT 上线同期⽔平，
并登上美国 iOS 免费应⽤榜榜⾸。投资者已在定价这⼀势头 ——Shopify 等 Muse 合作伙伴股价上
涨，⽽ Booking 和 Intuit 等被视为易受冲击的公司则遭到抛售。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

苹果前设计主管操⼑，九个⽉极速成型
Muse Charm 的诞⽣，本⾝就是⼀段不寻常的硬件研发故事。
据 Meta CTO Andrew Bosworth 透露，该项⽬直⾄今年 3 ⽉才正式⽴项，初始需求直⽩⾄极： " 我
们想在今年推出⼀款还不存在的硬件。 "Meta 原定于 2027 年推出这款设备，但扎克伯格在看过早
期原型后，要求团队将时间表压缩⾄ 2026 年底。九个⽉后， Muse Charm 出现在了发布台上。
这款产品出⾃ Meta 去年底从苹果挖来的两位核⼼设计⾼管 —— 前苹果界⾯设计主管 Alan Dye 与
Billy Sorrentino 。两⼈此前主导了 iOS 界⾯与 Apple Watch 交互设计，其离职曾迫使苹果内部设
计团队⼤规模重组。他们加⼊ Meta 后，负责组建公司新设计实验室， Muse Charm 正是该实验
室与 Meta 超级智能 AI 团队联合打造的⾸批成果。
这款设备的内部代号为 "Clawmagochi" ，名字⼀半来⾃上世纪 90 年代⻛靡全球的电⼦宠物

Tamagotchi ，另⼀半则源于团队对 OpenClaw AI 助⼿的借鉴。 Bosworth 在媒体采访中坦⾔，项
⽬推进速度之快令他⾄今仍感到 " 有些不可思议 "—— 整个设计与制造过程发⽣在同⼀个⾃然年
内。
⽬前， Muse Charm 仍处于相当早期的阶段：外壳最终材质尚未确定， Meta 只⽣产出少量样
机，但计划赶在今年 12 ⽉假⽇购物季前正式发售。
产品形态：⼀个可握持的 AI 伴侣
从硬件规格来看， Muse Charm 的设计边界划得相当清晰 —— 它知道⾃⼰不是⼿机。
设备配备⼀块约 2 英⼨的 OLED 触摸屏，采⽤半透明外壳，内部电路板透过机⾝背部和侧⾯清晰
可⻅，呈现出扎克伯格所称的 " 升级版⿊客美学 " ，也带有鲜明的 Y2K 复古⻛格。⽤⼾可以将其挂
在钥匙扣上、⽤挂绳固定在背包上，或直接套在⼿腕上携带。
屏幕中央是⼀个完全可定制的虚拟 Muse ⻆⾊，⽤⼾可以为其设置名字、外貌、服装、声⾳、⼝
⾳和说话速度。机⾝右上⻆的指纹传感器可直接唤醒 Muse ，省去解锁⼿机和打开应⽤的步骤。

内置 5G 调制解调器使其⽆需依赖 Wi-Fi 即可访问 Muse ，并⽀持⾳乐、视频播放，配备前后摄像
头、⻨克⻛、扬声器及 USB-C 接⼝。

### Page 3

当两台 Muse Charm 相互靠近时，设备能够彼此识别，两个 AI 虚拟⻆⾊也会产⽣互动 ——Meta
为 AI 智能体增添了⼀个实体世界的社交层。
不过， Charm 并未与⼿机完全脱钩。⾸次设置与数据同步仍须通过 iPhone 或 Android 上的 Muse
应⽤完成， 5G ⽹络资费的收取⽅式⽬前也尚未公布。
市场前景： Gen Z 可能买单，⼤众化是另⼀回事
分析师对 Muse Charm 的市场潜⼒持谨慎态度，但不排除其在特定⼈群中获得牵引⼒。
IDC 总监 Jitesh Ubrani 指出， Charm ⾯向的是那些不愿佩戴智能眼镜的⽤⼾群体，同时唤起了⼈
们对 Tamagotchi 时代的集体记忆。" 有些⼈可能还记得 Tamagotchi （拓⿇歌⼦），这款产品可能
会勾起那种感觉， " 他表⽰， " 它甚⾄可能在本地运⾏⼩型语⾔模型，在这么⼩的设备⾥跑 AI 。 "

### Page 4

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
131 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
市场研究机构 Smart Analytics Global 创始⼈ Linda Sui 认为，Muse Charm 对 Z 世代及更年轻消
费者存在⼀定吸引⼒—— 这⼀代⼈倾向于把 AI 助⼿视为伴侣或思维伙伴，⽽⾮单纯的搜索⼯具，
且正值数码相机、翻盖⼿机和 MP3 播放器的复古⻛潮涌现之际。 "AI 、时尚与个性化的结合，若
定价亲⺠且易于上⼿，可能确实对年轻⽤⼾有吸引⼒。 "
但 Sui 同时警告，⼤众化市场的路径并不清晰： " 我对它的⼤众市场潜⼒持谨慎态度。除⾮ Muse
Charm 能提供智能⼿机、⼿表、⽿机或智能眼镜都⽆法轻易替代的独特功能，否则它更可能只
是早期尝鲜者的 ' 可选项 ' ，⽽⾮主流产品。 "
前⻋之鉴同样存在。 AI 硬件初创公司 Rabbit Inc 的掌上设备 Rabbit R1 于 2024 年初发布时同样引

发⼴泛关注，但因 AI 功能严重过度承诺、实际体验不稳定⽽最终遭遇失败。
Meta 的真实盘算：硬件实验，⽽⾮孤注⼀掷
Bosworth 在发布后的采访中对 Muse Charm 的定位出奇坦率。他承认， Charm 并⾮ Meta AI 硬件
战略的核⼼⽀柱： " 显然，我们预期更多⼈会通过智能眼镜和⼿机来使⽤ Muse 。 " 他将这款产品
定性为⼀次 " 探索 " ，⼀个 " 经典的 v0 版本 " 。
对 Meta ⽽⾔， Charm 承担的是⼀项具体的商业验证任务：在 Muse 已积累起⼀批愿意持续使
⽤、深度定制 AI ⻆⾊的核⼼⽤⼾之后，测试其中是否有⾜够多的⼈愿意为 AI 购买⼀个专属的实
体⼊⼝。换⾔之， Muse 已经回答了 " 有没有⼈愿意使⽤个⼈智能体 " ，⽽ Charm 要回答的下⼀个
问题是 " 有没有⼈愿意把个⼈智能体带在⾝上 " 。
据彭博援引知情⼈⼠消息， Muse Charm 的定价将与市⾯上的智能⼿表处于同⼀区间，⾸批产品
主要⾯向 Muse 核⼼⽤⼾与早期技术爱好者，后续版本将视市场反响⽽定。

按照 Meta 的路线图， Charm 只是让 Muse ⾛出⼿机屏幕的第⼀步。扎克伯格在发布会上表⽰，
Muse 还将很快覆盖 Meta 旗下的智能眼镜产品线，让⽤⼾在开⻋、做饭或运动时，通过语⾳便可
交代任务，⽆需拿起任何屏幕。
这位曾重⾦押注元宇宙、后⼜将赌注转向 AI 的创始⼈，这⼀次给出的逻辑是：玩具往往是下⼀代
计算平台最初的伪装。
限免
请发表您的评论

### Page 5

图⽚
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 483: 习近平谈中东局势

Source PDF: all report pdf/习近平谈中东局势.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
409 收藏 分享到 :
中⽅⽀持美伊两国回归伊斯兰堡谅解备忘录，希望双⽅尽早重回对话谈判解决问题的轨
道，最终达成包括核问题在内的全⾯协议，尽早实现和平。
摘要：
当地时间 9 ⽉ 24 ⽇上午，国家主席习近平同美国总统特朗普在⽩宫举⾏会谈。
习近平指出，中⽅⼀直认为，各国的主权和安全都要得到尊重，始终在为缓局降温发挥建设性
作⽤，⿎励各⽅坚持和平选择，保持谈判势头。中⽅⽀持美伊两国回归伊斯兰堡谅解备忘录，
希望双⽅尽早重回对话谈判解决问题的轨道，最终达成包括核问题在内的全⾯协议，尽早实现
和平。
本⽂来源：新华社，原⽂标题：《习近平谈中东局势》。
限免
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

---
## Document 486: 今年就“贡献”2亿美元！“AI股神”是高盛“最大主经纪客户”

Source PDF: all report pdf/今年就“贡献”2亿美元！“AI股神”是高盛“最大主经纪客户”.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-25
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

“AI 股神 ”Leopold Aschenbrenner 创⽴的 Situational Awareness 成⽴仅两年，今年已为⾼
盛贡献超过 2 亿美元融资费⽤，跻⾝其主经纪业务最⼤客⼾之列。⾼杠杆曾放⼤ AI 押注收
益，也放⼤了暴跌后的数⼗亿美元亏损。随着 Aschenbrenner 收缩杠杆，⾼盛相关收⼊或
将减少。
摘要：
被市场称为 “AI 股神 ” 的 Leopold Aschenbrenner ，其创⽴的 Situational Awareness 基⾦成⽴仅两
年，便已跻⾝⾼盛最重要的主经纪客⼾之列。
据英国《⾦融时报》援引知情⼈⼠透露，⾼盛今年通过向 Situational Awareness 提供融资服
务，获得的费⽤收⼊已超过 2 亿美元，使其成为⾼盛主经纪业务中费⽤贡献最⾼的对冲基⾦客
⼾。
这笔收⼊与 Situational Awareness 此前激进的加杠杆策略密切相关。不过，这种交易模式正在退
潮。今年 7 ⽉， Aschenbrenner 已告知投资者，将停⽌通过借贷放⼤投资押注。随着融资需求下

降，⾼盛未来从该基⾦获得的相关费⽤也将随之减少。
与此同时， AI 股票的急剧回调让⾼杠杆策略迅速遭到反噬。 Situational Awareness 在遭遇数⼗亿
美元亏损后，此前估值约 160 亿美元的公开市场头⼨⼤部分被出售给 Ken Griffin 旗下的 Citadel 。
AI 股暴跌引发杠杆反噬，⾼盛仍是核⼼融资⽅
今年 AI 相关股票遭遇急速抛售后， Situational Awareness 的⾼杠杆仓位迅速放⼤亏损。随着⼤规
模头⼨被出售， Aschenbrenner 也开始重新调整交易策略。
⾯对巨额亏损， Aschenbrenner 表⽰将 “ 再战⼀⽇ ” ，并 “ 汲取必要教训 ” 。本⽉早些时候，他已经
重新开始建⽴科技股仓位。
融资关系也随之出现分化。⾼盛⽬前仍是 Situational Awareness 的核⼼借贷⽅之⼀，双⽅合作
关系并未中断；据英国《⾦融时报》此前报道，摩根⼤通则已在该基⾦遭受亏损后停⽌向其提
供贷款。
与此同时， Aschenbrenner 近期开始与专注科技领域的经纪商 Clear Street 建⽴交易关系，进⼀

步拓展融资渠道。随着其停⽌通过借贷放⼤押注，这家基⾦此前依靠⾼杠杆推动规模扩张的路
径也正在发⽣变化。
两年做到 200 亿美元， AI 押注⼀度带来超 400% 回报
Aschenbrenner 现年 24 岁，曾任 OpenAI 研究员，并⽆传统交易从业经历。 2024 年，他以数亿美
元资产规模创⽴ Situational Awareness ，此后⼤举押注 AI 赛道，累计回报率⼀度超过 400% ，管
理规模迅速扩张⾄逾 200 亿美元。
在创办基⾦前， Aschenbrenner 已凭借对 AI 趋势的判断在硅⾕受到关注。 2024 年，他发布了⼀
篇⻓达 165 ⻚、题为《 Situational Awareness 》的⽂章，预测⼈⼯智能将在未来数年快速发展，
并因此获得 “AI 界诺查丹玛斯 ” 的称号，也为此后成⽴基⾦、吸引资⾦积累了影响⼒。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
13 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
随着基⾦规模快速膨胀，其交易和融资需求也同步增⻓。借⼊资⾦放⼤仓位，让 Situational
Awareness 得以在 AI ⾏情中进⼀步放⼤收益，也使其迅速成为华尔街主经纪业务中的⼤客⼾。
但当 AI ⾏情转向，这种模式同样放⼤了下⾏⻛险。随着 Aschenbrenner 主动收缩杠杆，⾼盛从这
家基⾦⾝上获得的巨额融资收⼊或将难以延续。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 496: 価格競争から価値競争へ 〜デフレ脱却期における高付加価値ビジネスへの構造転換〜

Source PDF: all report pdf/価格競争から価値競争へ 〜デフレ脱却期における高付加価値ビジネスへの構造転換〜.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-09
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Economic Trends

2026 年9 月 9 日

1/4 
価格競争から価値競争へ 
〜デフレ脱却期における高付加価値ビジネスへの構造転換〜 
 経済調査部 首席エコノミスト  永濱 利廣 
（℡：050-5474-7492）

（要旨） 
○ デフレ期の「安売り競争（低価格化・コストカット）」から脱却し、インフレやコスト高に対
応した「価値の高さで選ばれる経営モデル」への構造転換が必要である。 
○ 原材料・エネルギー価格の高騰や人手不足による人件費上昇により、コスト削減のみで価格を
維持することは困難になっている。単なるコスト転嫁ではなく、他で代えが効かない「ブラン
ド力（独自性）」に基づく価格決定力を持つことが勝ち残りの条件となる。 
○ 高付加価値ビジネスへの3 つの切り口、①体験とストーリーの付加: 物から「感情的体験」や
物語へのシフト（満足度の向上と粗利率確保）。②顧客課題の統合的解決: 単体販売からサブ
スクリプションやデータ分析等のパッケージ・サービス化。③ターゲット層の再編: プレミア
ム層向け商品の投入による平均客単価の底上げ。 
○ 薄利多売から厚利少売にシフトすることで、販売数量が減っても利益率を高めて全体の利益を
増やすことが可能。数量の減少はオペレーション負荷や物流・人件費を抑えるため、人手不足
時代における労働生産性の向上に繋がる。創出した利益を賃上げや投資へ回すことで、「成長
の正循環」が回り始めます。 
○ インフレ期をチャンスと捉え、価格競争から「自社の適正な価値を提示する価値競争」へ舵を
切ることが、企業の持続的な成長と収益力の向上に不可欠。 
（＊） 本稿はリベラルタイム10 月号（https://www.liberaltime.com/shopdetail/000000000551/）への
寄稿を基に作成。

1．デフレ時代の「安売り競争」からの脱却 
長く続いたデフレ時代、日本企業の至上命題は「コストカット」と「低価格化」であった。安さこそ
が最強の集客フックとなり、他社より1 円でも安く提供することが正義とされた。しかし、その裏で削
られたのは従業員の給与であり、 企業の設備投資や研究開発予算であった。こうした価格破壊の追求は、
企業自身の稼ぐ力と日本経済全体の購買力を削ぎ落とす「縮小均衡のスパイラル」を生み出して きた。 
しかし今、その前提は崩壊している。歴史的な原材料費の高騰、エネルギーコストの増大、そして深
刻な人手不足に伴う人件費の上昇。これら三重苦のコスト押し上げ要因により、もはや従来のコスト削

### Page 2

2/4 
減努力だけで価格を維持することは不可能となっている。 つまり、 「値上げ」 は企業にとって選択肢の一
つではなく、存続をかけた不可避の課題となっている。 
ここで企業が突きつけられているのは、単なる「コスト増の価格転嫁」にとどまらない。デフレ期の
「安さを競う価格競争」 から抜け出し、 「価値の高さで選ばれる価値競争」 へと経営モデルを根本から転
換できるかという構造的脱皮の可否を迫っている（図表１）。

図表 1：経営モデルの構造転換（デフレ型 vs インフレ型） 
比較項目 
デフレ型：価格競争（従
来）  
インフレ型：価値競争（これから） 
基本モデル 薄利多売（数量追求）  厚利少売（価値追求） 
価格設定の基準 市場相場・他社より安く  自社提供価値に基づく適正価格 
主な競争力の源泉 
コストカット・人件費削
減  
ブランド力・他で代えが効かない独自性 
経営上のスパイラ
ル 
縮小均衡のスパイラル  
成長の正循環（投資・賃上げ・イノベーシ
ョン） 
人手不足への影響 現場の負荷増大・疲弊  少ない人員で利益最大化（生産性向上） 
（出所）筆者作成

２．値上げ戦略の明暗を分ける「価格決定力」 
物価高が常態化する中、 企業の業績は 「値上げができたか否か」 「値上げ後に顧客が離れなかったか」
によって明暗がくっきりと分かれ始めている。 
実際、従来の「単なるコスト転嫁」を行った企業の中には、顧客の離脱と苦戦を強いられているとこ
ろもある。商品やサービスの中身を変えずに価格だけを上げれば、実質的な価値の低下と捉えられ、価
格に敏感な顧客から見放されるのは必然である。 
一方で、収益を大きく伸ばしているのは「戦略的値上げ」を断行した企業である。そして、これらの
企業に共通するのは、自社の商品・サービスに対する強い「価格決定力」である。 
そもそも価格決定力とは、自社が望む価格を設定しても顧客を失わない力を指す。デフレ下では「市
場の相場」に価格を合わせるのが常識であったが、インフレ下で勝ち残る企業は「自らの提供価値」に
基づいて自ら価格を決めている。 
そして、価格決定力を支える源泉こそが「ブランド力」である。ブランド力とは、単なる認知度や高

### Page 3

3/4 
級感のことではない。 「他で代えが効かない」という代替不可能性の高さでもある。 「高くてもこのブラ
ンドだから買いたい」 「このサービスでなければ自分の課題が解決できない」と顧客に思わせる独自性
を確立できているかどうかが、値上げ局面における最大の防御壁であり攻撃力となる。

３．価値を高める「高付加価値ビジネス」への舵切り 
成功事例から見えてくるのは、主に 3 つのアプローチである。 
第一に、 「体験とストーリーの付加」 である。 単なる 「物」 の販売から、 顧客が得られる 「感情的体験」
や「文脈」へ価値の軸足を移す手法である。例えば、単なる食材の提供にとどまらず、生産者のこだわ
りやサステナビリティへの取り組みを物語として提示する。あるいは、店舗空間や接客の質を極限まで
高めることで、顧客に「特別な時間を過ごした」という満足感を提供する。体験価値が加われば、原材
料費の比率は相対的に下がり、高い粗利率を維持できるようになる。 
第二に、 「顧客課題の統合的解決」 である。 製品単体の切り売りではなく、 顧客の業務効率化や付加価
値向上をまるごと支援するサービスへと進化させる。例えば、単なる機器販売から、データ分析やメン
テナンスまでをパッケージ化したサブスクリプション型モデルへの移行などがこれに該当する。 顧客に
とっての「総合的な導入効果」が高ければ、単体価格の比較による値下げ圧力は無効化される。 
第三に、 「プレミアム層 ・ マスミドル層へのターゲティング再編」 である。 従来の 「万人向け ・ 標準品」
のラインナップを見直し、機能を絞った廉価版を残しつつも、フラッグシップとなる超高価格帯・高機
能商品を新規投入する。 一部の富裕層やコアファン層に向けたプレミアム商品をポートフォリオに組み
込むことで、全体の平均客単価を引き上げる戦略である。

４．高付加価値ビジネスで企業の利益は本当に伸びるのか 
正しく高付加価値化へシフトした企業の利益は劇的に伸びるだろう。 ただし、 そのためには従来の 「数
量追求型」の思考を完全に捨て去る覚悟が必要となる。 
デフレ期のビジネスモデルは「薄利多売」であった。薄い利益率を量で補う構造だ。しかしインフレ
期における高付加価値ビジネスは「厚利少売」への転換を意味する。 
例えば、利益率 10％の商品を 100 個売って 100 の利益を得ていた企業が、価値を高めて利益率30％
の商品へと進化させたとする。この場合、販売個数が半分に減ったとしても、得られる利益は150 とな
り、従来を大幅に上回る。 
販売数量が減ることは一見するとネガティブに思えるが、 実は企業経営において絶大なメリットをも
たらす可能性がある。出荷数や対応件数が減ることで、原材料費や物流費、さらには現場のオペレーシ
ョン負荷や人件費を抑えることができる。 
特に、現在の日本が直面している最大の課題は「人手不足」である。しかし、限られた人的リソース
で利益を最大化するためには、 「少ない人員で、 より高い単価・高い利益率の仕事をする」 以外に道はな
い。 つまり、 高付加価値ビジネスへのシフトは、 単なる営業戦略にとどまらず、 労働生産性を向上させ、
人手不足時代を生き抜くための最も理にかなった構造改革である。 
高付加価値化によって生まれた豊かな利益は、さらなる研究開発や人材投資、そして「賃上げ」へと

### Page 4

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
4/4 
還元される。これによって、優秀な人材が集まり、さらに付加価値の高い商品が生まれるという「成長
の正循環」が回り始めるだろう。

５．新たな時代を切り拓く経営者の決断 
日本経済は今、30 年ぶりの歴史的な転換期を迎えている。 インフレは、企業からデフレ期の 「慣れ親
しんだ安全地帯」 を奪い去る一方で、 「適切な価値に対して適切な対価を受け取る」 という健全な資本主
義の姿を取り戻す絶好の機会を与えている。 
価格競争の先にあるのは、消耗戦の末の共倒れでしかない。自社が提供している本当の価値とは何か
を見つめ直し、それを磨き上げ、堂々と適正な価格を提示する。 
この「価値競争」への舵切りを恐れなかった企業こそが、インフレを追い風に変え、次の時代におけ
る収益力と持続可能性を手に入れることができるといえよう。

---
## Document 501: 債券市場總評：金融債穩健鎖利

Source PDF: all report pdf/債券市場總評：金融債穩健鎖利.pdf
Report source: Fubon
Date: 2026-09-18
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1

台北富邦銀行 
Sep 18，2026 | 3:00 PM (GMT+8) 
債券市場總評： 金融債穩健鎖利
投資研究部 
 Research 
Financial Market 
▎FOMC 升息抗通膨，點陣圖偏鷹 
9 月 FOMC 如預期升息 1 碼 ， 將利率區間調升至3.75%
～4.00%，並獲全體委員一致通過。會前非農與零售銷
售優於預期，顯示就業與消費仍具韌性，PPI 年增率上
行、核心CPI 月增高於預期，加上中東情勢推升油價，
使通膨疑慮延續。最新經濟預測中， Fed 上調今明年
GDP 預估 、 下修失業率預估 ， 並上修通膨預估 ， 反映官
員認為經濟仍能承受較高利率，但通膨回到 2%目標仍
需更久。華許會後重申通膨仍過高，且持續時間過久，
點陣圖亦暗示年底前仍有進一步升息空間 ， 使市場將本
次升息解讀為 Fed 強化抗通膨立場的訊號。 
表 1 Fed 上調經濟成長、通膨預估，失業率同步下修

資料來源：Fed，2026/9/16 
▎利率高檔震盪，債市持續承壓 
FOMC 後市場持續消化偏鷹訊號，10 年期美債殖利率
一度升破 5%後回落至 4.93%。9 月以來中東風險反覆
升溫，帶動油價維持高檔波動，通膨疑慮不易快速降
溫，也限制長端利率回落空間。會後長端賣壓暫未進
一步擴大，市場轉向觀察油價、通膨數據與後續升息
步調。在利率與油價同步走高壓力下，9 月以來主要
債券報酬率明顯轉弱。

圖 1 油價推升公債殖利率走高，債券報酬同步下滑

資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/17 
2026年 2027年 2028年 長期
經濟成長率預估 2.3 2.4 2.2 2.0
6月預估 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.0
失業率預估 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.2
6月預估 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.2
整體PCE預估 3.7 2.3 2.1 2.0
6月預估 3.6 2.3 2.0 2.0
核心PCE預估 3.4 2.5 2.2
6月預估 3.3 2.5 2.1
政策利率預估 4.1 4.1 3.9 3.2
6月預估 3.8 3.6 3.4 3.1
%
◼ Fed 如預期升息 1 碼 ， 為近3 年來首次升息 ， 且點陣圖暗示年底前仍有升息空間 ，
反映 Fed 強化抗通膨立場。美國公債殖利率維持高檔震盪，會後債市雖出現底部
修復跡象，但利率與通膨變數仍在。投等債殖利率亦升至 5.7%，顯著高於 10 年
均值 3.98%，今年資金仍持續流入，反映市場鎖利需求未因利率波動而轉弱 。 
◼ 美國投等債企業 2Q 營收年增 10.5%、EBITDA 年增 15.8%，皆創近 4 年來最強
表現，主要受惠大型科技企業與 AI 投資、油價走高，以及醫療保健營收貢獻，總
槓桿率降至近 3 年低點 ， 利息保障倍數維持穩定 ， 企業營運與償債能力仍具韌性。 
◼ 不確定環境下，利率高檔震盪可能延續，存續期相對較短的金融債較具抗利率波
動優勢 。金融產業獲利亦具支撐 ，2026 年銀行 、資本市場與金融服務EPS 年增率
分別可達 23%、19%與 14%，以銀行與資本市場表現較突出，尤可關注短天期、
體質穩健，且獲利動能較明確的相關金融債發行公司。

2026 年初至今報酬率 
美國非投等債報酬率 1.93 
美國投等債報酬率 -1.02 
美國公債報酬率 -1.28

美國 10 年公債殖利率 4.93% 
西德州原油期貨 $101/桶

### Page 2

2

誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
▎高殖利率吸引鎖利，資金穩健流入 
近期美國投等債殖利率隨美國公債殖利率攀升至 5.7%，
顯著高於 10 年均值 3.98%，使收益水準回到近年相對
高檔（圖 2）。儘管今年以來美國 10 年期公債殖利率
震盪走高， 且9 月初利率上行壓力再度升高，但年初以
來國際資金仍持續流入投等債基金（圖 3）。從週度流
量觀察 ， 多數期間維持淨流入 ， 且截至9 月 9 日當週仍
延續正流入 ， 顯示利率上行與短線報酬波動尚未明顯削
弱投等債需求 ， 資金仍傾向透過投等債鎖定較高殖利率
水準。

圖 2 美國投等債殖利率升至 5.7%，高於 10 年均值

資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/17

圖 3 今年公債殖利率上行，但資金仍流入投等債基金

資料來源：JPM，2026/9/9

▎企業獲利仍具支撐，投等債基本面穩 
檢視美國投等債企業第 2 季基本面 ， 營收與獲利動能仍
維持穩健 。2026 年 2Q 營收年增 10.5%，EBITDA 年增
15.8%，兩者皆創 2022 年 3Q 以來、近 4 年來最強表
現 （圖4、圖 5） 。從產業來看，改善主要受惠於科技、
能源與醫療保健，其中能源受油價走高支撐，科技則由
大型科技企業與 AI 相關投資鏈帶動，推升整體獲利表
現。顯示投等債的支撐來源不只在於殖利率升高，企業
營運獲利仍維持韌性，信用基本面仍相對穩健。

圖 4  2Q 營收年增 10.5%，創 2022 年 3Q 以來最高

資料來源：JPM，2026/9/9

圖 5 EBITDA 年增 15.8%，近 4 年來最強表現

資料來源：JPM，2026/9/9

▎槓桿率下降，付息能力維持穩定 
獲利改善也反映在資產負債表指標上。今年 2Q 美國投
等債企業總槓桿率降至 3 倍，為 2023 年 4Q 以來低點
（圖 6）。在利息成本仍高的環境下，EBITDA 成長仍
支撐償債能力 ， 使利息保障倍數維持在10.3 倍 （圖7）。
% 
單位:百萬美元

### Page 3

3

誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
整體來看，企業獲利增長不僅支撐營運表現，也帶動槓
桿率下降，高利率對信用指標的壓力仍相對可控。

圖 6 美國投等債總槓桿率改善，降至近年低點

資料來源：JPM，2026/9/9

圖 7 高利率環境，美國投等債利息保障倍數仍然持穩

資料來源：JPM，2026/9/9

▎金融獲利延續成長，金融債具韌性 
從標普金融產業來看， 銀行、 資本市場與金融服務3 類
次產業的獲利動能同樣延續。2026 年 EPS 年增率分別
達 23%、19%與 14%，其中銀行、資本市場表現最為
突出。從季度變化來看，銀行2Q EPS 年增率達 41%，
資本市場也達 28%， 上半年獲利動能明顯較強 。 雖然下
半年成長率放緩 ， 但銀行與資本市場3Q、4Q 仍維持雙
位數成長，金融服務亦延續正成長（圖 8），顯示金融
產業獲利表現仍有延續性 ， 也使金融債在投等債內部更
具觀察價值。

圖 8 銀行與資本市場 EPS 成長較突出

資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/16

▎利率波動未歇，可關注短天期金融債 
短線來看，Fed 偏鷹、油價高檔與通膨黏著，仍可能使
美國公債殖利率維持震盪 ， 長天期債券價格也較容易受
利率變動牽動。不過，在美國投等債殖利率位於近年高
檔、企業獲利與信用指標仍具韌性的環境下，投等債仍
具備收息鎖利與平衡股票市場波動的配置價值 。 若擔憂
短線利率波動，可側重短天期、體質較佳的金融債，以
相對較低存續期降低價格波動 ， 同時保留高殖利率環境
下的票息優勢。

### Page 4

4

誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
<附錄> 
投等債、新興債、貨幣基金獲資金流入 
表 1 債券型基金資金流向

表 2 股票型基金資金流向

資料來源 ：EPFR、JPM(含 ETF 與共同基金)，2026/9/9 
註：亞太基金包含日股 
國際型股票基金投資區域不限特定國家或區域

9 月美國投等債、非投等債報酬 
圖 1 美投等債以金融公司、科技、通訊表現較佳

資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/16

圖 2 美非投等債以科技、能源、資產管理表現佳

資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/16

<接續下頁>

(百萬美元) 投資等級債 非投資等級債 新興市場債 債券型合計 貨幣型基金
2023年 269,085 -16,118 -36,218 280,769 1,340,310
2024年 440,257 56,663 -24,703 617,288 1,143,518
2025年 582,905 36,381 82,758 788,272 1,162,887
2026年(YTD) 559,198 21,017 41,562 680,414 462,956
7/9-7/15 17,987 -226 878 20,047 -119,614 
7/16-7/22 12,271 603 871 14,851 -33,856 
7/23-7/29 11,396 -453 -243 12,520 5,005
7/30-8/5 16,139 4,570 103 23,086 53,695
8/6-8/12 21,534 683 1,408 23,790 25,440
8/13-8/19 17,023 1,194 3,264 21,369 -1,246 
8/20-8/26 15,220 -125 3,001 17,719 9,198
8/27-9/2 16,148 1,395 1,129 18,259 29,961
9/3-9/9 15,279 36 3,864 17,514 12,915
(百萬美元) 美國 歐洲 亞太 國際型 新興合計 新興亞洲 新興其他 拉丁美洲 歐非中東
2023年 101,883 -66,378 12,913 29,841 94,420 88,300 5,257 1,764 -901 
2024年 535,403 -67,803 3,555 121,161 143,613 169,167 -17,648 -7,312 -595 
2025年 388,260 57,872 15,324 232,543 120,289 75,189 36,554 5,162 3,384
2026年(YTD) 419,427 -15,262 30,206 420,228 -48,724 -124,376 66,855 5,599 3,198
7/9-7/15 15,735 684 2,004 11,729 24,983 23,675 1,757 -525 75
7/16-7/22 -7,227 -1,557 1,919 6,800 29,596 27,163 1,929 376 129
7/23-7/29 30,440 -2,279 1,458 9,795 24,017 21,847 2,062 42 66
7/30-8/5 9,572 55 3,027 10,976 8,646 4,545 3,982 -15 134
8/6-8/12 15,613 1,230 586 11,061 -11,853 -13,658 2,075 -482 212
8/13-8/19 28,929 242 -1,586 11,654 -377 -2,218 2,147 -446 140
8/20-8/26 -4,390 -150 2,886 9,885 445 -2,043 2,267 171 50
8/27-9/2 -5,891 846 1,544 11,841 -5,390 -7,220 2,204 -385 11
9/3-9/9 -3,911 342 1,047 10,207 1,523 -91 1,525 83 7
% 
%

### Page 5

5

誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
9 月美國投等債、非投等債 OAS 
圖 3 美投等債 OAS 以科技、金融公司、能源表現佳

資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/16

圖 4 美非投等 OAS 以銀行、REITs、科技表現佳

資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/16

美國非投等債 OAS 變動(bps) 
美國投等債 OAS 變動(bps)

### Page 6

6

誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
美 IG-金融公司產業報酬較佳前 3 檔*

美 IG-科技產業報酬較佳前 3 檔*

美 IG-通訊產業報酬較佳前 3 檔*

美 HY-科技產業報酬較佳前 3 檔*

美 HY-能源產業報酬較佳前 3 檔*

美 HY-資產管理產業報酬較佳前 3 檔*

*：舉例說明，非單一標的推薦 
名次 產業層級1 產業層級2 產業層級3 公司名稱 證券名稱 9/1~9/16
報酬率(%)
最新殖利率
(9/16)
9/1~9/16
OAS變動(bps)
OAS
(9/16)
票面利率
(%)
彭博綜合
評等  到期日 剩餘年期 存續期間
1 金融機構 金融公司 BDC North Haven Private Income F NHPIFS 5 1/8 09/25/28 0.2 6.4 -38.2 171.1 5.125 BBB- 2028/9/25 2.0 1.9
2 金融機構 金融公司 金融公司 愛爾開普愛爾蘭資本DAC/愛爾開 AER 4 5/8 10/15/27 0.1 4.7 -17.7 21.9 4.625 BBB+ 2027/10/15 1.1 1.0
3 金融機構 金融公司 BDC Blackstone Private Credit Fu BCRED 4.95 09/26/27 0.1 5.2 -11.8 76.4 4.95 BBB- 2027/9/26 1.0 1.0
名次 產業層級1 產業層級2 產業層級3 公司名稱 證券名稱 9/1~9/16
報酬率(%)
最新殖利率
(9/16)
9/1~9/16
OAS變動(bps)
OAS
(9/16)
票面利率
(%)
彭博綜合
評等  到期日 剩餘年期 存續期間
1 工業 科技 科技服務 Paypal控股有限公司 PYPL 3 1/4 06/01/50 0.7 6.1 -16.8 66.0 3.25 A- 2050/6/1 23.7 14.5
2 工業 科技 軟體 甲骨文公司 ORCL 3.95 03/25/51 0.5 7.4 -15.8 205.7 3.95 BBB- 2051/3/25 24.5 12.9
3 工業 科技 半導體 輝達公司 NVDA 5 5/8 06/15/56 0.1 6.4 -12.0 102.3 5.625 AA 2056/6/15 29.7 13.8
名次 產業層級1 產業層級2 產業層級3 公司名稱 證券名稱 9/1~9/16
報酬率(%)
最新殖利率
(9/16)
9/1~9/16
OAS變動(bps)
OAS
(9/16)
票面利率
(%)
彭博綜合
評等  到期日 剩餘年期 存續期間
1 工業 通訊 媒體娛樂 Meta平台公司 META 4.65 08/15/62 0.3 7.0 -12.0 161.2 4.65 AA- 2062/8/15 35.9 14.4
2 工業 通訊 有線 威瑞森電信公司 VZ 4.329 09/21/28 0.2 4.5 -6.9 0.4 4.329 BBB+ 2028/9/21 2.0 0.0
3 工業 通訊 無線 T-Mobile美國公司 TMUS 3.6 11/15/60 0.1 6.5 -9.4 112.6 3.6 BBB+ 2060/11/15 34.2 15.4
名次 產業層級1 產業層級2 產業層級3 公司名稱 證券名稱 9/1~9/16
報酬率(%)
最新殖利率
(9/16)
9/1~9/16
OAS變動(bps)
OAS
(9/16)
票面利率
(%)
彭博綜合
評等  到期日 剩餘年期 存續期間
1 工業 科技 硬體 全錄公司 XRX 10 1/4 10/15/30 2.8 13.6 -113.7 874.7 10.25 B- 2030/10/15 4.1 3.2
2 工業 科技 軟體 GoTo集團公司 LOGM 5 1/2 05/01/28 1.4 19.1 -79.6 1466.7 5.5 B 2028/5/1 1.6 1.6
3 工業 科技 軟體 CoreWeave公司 CRWV 9 02/01/31 0.8 12.0 -47.7 705.2 9 B+ 2031/2/1 4.4 3.6
名次 產業層級1 產業層級2 產業層級3 公司名稱 證券名稱 9/1~9/16
報酬率(%)
最新殖利率
(9/16)
9/1~9/16
OAS變動(bps)
OAS
(9/16)
票面利率
(%)
彭博綜合
評等  到期日 剩餘年期 存續期間
1 工業 能源 提煉 PBF控股有限責任公司/PBF金融 PBFENE 7 7/8 09/15/30 0.7 6.2 -24.1 83.0 7.875 BB- 2030/9/15 4.0 0.0
2 工業 能源 油田服務 泛洋公司 RIG 8 1/2 05/15/31 0.4 7.2 -46.0 87.9 8.5 B- 2031/5/15 4.7 2.4
3 工業 能源 獨立 SM能源公司 SM 8 3/8 07/01/28 0.3 7.1 -28.7 116.6 8.375 BB- 2028/7/1 1.8 0.8
名次 產業層級1 產業層級2 產業層級3 公司名稱 證券名稱 9/1~9/16
報酬率(%)
最新殖利率
(9/16)
9/1~9/16
OAS變動(bps)
OAS
(9/16)
票面利率
(%)
彭博綜合
評等  到期日 剩餘年期 存續期間
1 金融機構 經紀資產經理人交易所 經紀資產經理人交易所 阿泰克集團公司 RCAP 7 1/2 04/01/29 0.1 7.6 -5.9 217.6 7.5 CCC+ 2029/4/1 2.5 2.3
2 金融機構 經紀資產經理人交易所 經紀資產經理人交易所 阿泰克集團公司 RCAP 10 08/15/30 0.0 8.4 0.4 192.3 10 B 2030/8/15 3.9 1.0
3 金融機構 經紀資產經理人交易所 經紀資產經理人交易所 Armor Holdco Inc EQNLN 8 1/2 11/15/29 -0.1 8.6 21.2 261.1 8.5 CCC+ 2029/11/15 3.2 2.8
本文係由台北富邦銀行提供，係根據市場公開資訊依據專業判斷所為，報告結果僅供讀者參考，並不構成要約、招攬、邀請、宣
傳、誘使或任何不論種類或形式之表示、建議或推薦，本文亦不為獲利之保證，讀者個人投資決策仍需自行判斷並承擔風險。本
文內容台北富邦銀行不保證其正確性及完整性，並所載述之內容台北富邦銀行保有隨時予以更正或撤回之權利。任何人不得以因
信賴該等資料做出投資決策為由，向台北富邦銀行主張任何權利或提出訴訟。另台北富邦銀行保留本文之一切著作權，禁止讀者
以任何形式引用、抄襲、複製及轉寄第三人。

---
## Document 513: 全球最大数据中心融资遇阻！ 软银旗下SB Energy IPO延期，500亿美元估值遭质疑

Source PDF: all report pdf/全球最大数据中心融资遇阻！ 软银旗下SB Energy IPO延期，500亿美元估值遭质疑.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

软银旗下 SB Energy 原计划本⽉完成 IPO ，却因投资者质疑 500 亿美元以上估值⽽推迟⾄ 10
⽉中下旬。公司尚⽆数据中⼼运营记录，却计划建设全球最⼤数据中⼼，融资⾼度依赖资
本市场。 IPO 受阻之际，英伟达⽀持⼒度也已缩减， AI 数据中⼼的⾼增⻓叙事正遭遇融资、
建设与市场信⼼的多重考验。
摘要：
软银旗下 SB Energy 的上市计划遭遇重⼤挫折，折射出华尔街对 AI 数据中⼼热潮的信⼼正在出现
裂痕。
据《纽约时报》报道，SB Energy 原计划于本⽉完成 IPO ，但由于投资者对其 500 亿美元或以上
的⽬标估值存有疑虑，承销银⾏迄今难以在公司及其顾问设定的价格区间内募集到⾜够买家，
上市时间表已被推迟⾄ 10 ⽉中下旬。这⼀变故直接威胁到该项⽬的建设资⾦来源，并令外界对
这座规划中的全球最⼤数据中⼼能否如期落地产⽣质疑。
IPO 延期的背后，是公众对数据中⼼的抵制情绪从社区层⾯蔓延⾄资本市场。投资者对数据中⼼
⾏业的增⻓预期及建设⻛险的质疑⽇益加剧，迫使相关企业及其顾问重新评估在公开市场融资

数百亿美元的计划。与此同时，核能企业 Holtec 上周也宣布⽆限期搁置 IPO 计划，将 " 数据中⼼开
发的不确定性 " 列为⾸要原因。
SB Energy ：雄⼼勃勃，却零运营记录
SB Energy 是⽇本软银集团旗下⼦公司，计划在俄亥俄州建设并运营⼀座数据中⼼，该项⽬最终
规模可达 10GW IT 负载，届时将成为全球最⼤数据中⼼。为⽀撑这⼀⽬标，公司计划新建 10GW
发电能⼒，其中包括 9.2GW 天然⽓发电。
项⽬的商业逻辑⾼度依赖单⼀客⼾：该数据中⼼将全部租赁给 OpenAI ，公司预计从 2028 年起的
约 20 年内，将累计获得 4390 亿美元的收⼊积压。
然⽽，令投资者踌躇的核⼼问题在于： SB Energy 迄今尚未有任何数据中⼼投⼊运营。在缺乏运
营记录的情况下，公司却寻求⾼达 500 亿美元以上的估值，这⼀落差成为机构投资者最主要的顾
虑之⼀。
上周， SB Energy 曾试图通过安排⼀场电话会议来提振投资者信⼼，邀请 OpenAI ⾸席财务官
Sarah Friar 及基础设施负责⼈ Sachin Katti 出席，就俄亥俄州数据中⼼项⽬的前景进⾏阐述。部

分投资者认为，此举本⾝即表明公司已意识到市场的疑虑。但最终，这⼀努⼒未能阻⽌ IPO 的延
期。
融资结构承压，英伟达已缩减⽀持⼒度
在 IPO 受阻之前，该项⽬的融资安排已出现松动迹象。
据报道，英伟达最初计划为 SB Energy 项⽬提供⾼达 2500 亿美元的⽀持，但在⾯临投资者对⻛
险敞⼝的质疑后，已⼤幅缩减⾄ 1050 亿美元的 " 剩余价值担保 " 兜底安排，以帮助降低项⽬债务成
本。英伟达对 SB Energy 的直接股权投资也从此前报道的 30 亿美元削减⾄ 15 亿美元。
IPO 所募资⾦对项⽬的持续建设⾄关重要。分析⼈⼠指出，由于上市计划⽆法简单取消，软银最
终可能不得不⼤幅压低估值、缩减发⾏规模，并在更苛刻的条款下寻求新的资本来源，由此形
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
9 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
成恶性循环。
公众抵制与政治⻛险双重夹击
SB Energy 的困境并⾮孤例，⽽是整个数据中⼼⾏业⾯临系统性压⼒的缩影。
数⽉来，公众对数据中⼼的反对情绪持续积聚，尤其是在农村地区，社区居⺠对这些占地⼴
阔、耗电量巨⼤的设施所带来的⽔资源消耗、空⽓质量及电⽹负担等问题表达了强烈不满。俄
亥俄州正迅速成为这场政治争议的中⼼地带，⽽ SB Energy 的项⽬恰好选址于此。
政治层⾯的不确定性同样不容忽视。新墨西哥州⺠主党州⻓候选⼈、前美国内政部⻓ Deb
Haaland 公开表⽰，若当选将暂停所有新数据中⼼项⽬，并要求开发商⼤⼒投资可再⽣能源。与
此同时，德克萨斯州州⻓ Abbott 近期也下令暂停新数据中⼼建设。
在资本市场，⽬前仅有 Equinix 和 Digital Realty Trust 两家专注于数据中⼼建设的上市公司，两者

股价本⽉均下跌 1% ⾄ 2% 。据《纽约时报》援引知情⼈⼠称，数据中⼼企业原本预计将占据
2026 年剩余时间内约三分之⼀的新股发⾏份额，当前的市场氛围令这⼀预期⾯临严峻考验。
OpenAI Stargate 计划⾯临连锁⻛险
SB Energy IPO 的受阻，其影响已超出单⼀项⽬范畴。
该项⽬与甲⻣⽂在新墨西哥州推进的 "Project Jupiter" （规划容量 4.5GW ）同为
OpenAI"Stargate" 算⼒建设计划的核⼼⽀柱，两者合计规划算⼒逾 10GW 。
据报道， Project Jupiter 的 180 亿美元杠杆贷款价格近期已跌⾄⾯值的 89 ⾄ 91 美分，处于 " 压
⼒ " ⽔平，原因同样包括当地社区对⽔资源和空⽓质量的强烈反对，以及新墨西哥州⼟地办公室
拒绝批准天然⽓管道铺设申请。
与此同时， AI 代币价格的下滑以及中国开源⼤模型对美国前沿模型市场份额的蚕⻝，也在加剧投
资者对 OpenAI 商业前景的担忧，进⽽传导⾄对相关基础设施项⽬的信⼼。

若上述两⼤项⽬均遭遇重⼤延误甚⾄停摆，将对 OpenAI ⾃⾝的 IPO 计划构成实质性冲击，并对
整个 AI 基础设施投资叙事带来深远影响。
限免
请发表您的评论

### Page 3

图⽚
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 546: 升息等於大市要崩？重回 90 年代三大劇本，看懂歷史上的升息真相 - KP思考筆記(第60期)

Source PDF: all report pdf/升息等於大市要崩？重回 90 年代三大劇本，看懂歷史上的升息真相 - KP思考筆記(第60期).pdf
Report source: Substack Reports
Date: 2026-09-19
Pages: 28
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

From:    KP - FOMO 研究院  <fomosoc@substack.com>
Subject: 升息等於⼤市要崩？重回  90 年代三⼤劇本，看懂歷史上的升息真相  - KP 思考筆記 ( 第 60 期 )
Date:    4 days ago
⼤家好，我是  KP ，歡迎來到第  60 期的《週末思考筆記》。

Forwarded this email? Subscribe here for more
升息等於⼤市要崩？重回  90 年代三⼤劇本，
看懂歷史上的升息真相  - KP 思考筆記 ( 第 60
期 )
KP@FOMOSoc
Sep 19

READ IN APP

⼤家好，我是  KP ，歡迎來到第  60 期的《週末思考筆記》。
這⼀期會⽐較特別⼀點，只有⼀個主題，但這會是⼀個極具深度且⻑篇幅的剖析。
為甚麼只有⼀個主題呢？因為我認為，當前的市場已經進⼊了由「宏觀主導」的關鍵節
點。
⽽這次的  FOMC 過後，我們需要去重新思考未來⼀段時間的投資⽅向。

### Page 2

本來呢，這個主題我原本打算放在付費的「深度分析」中。但考慮到如果等到下週才發
布，可能會有點晚。
所以，我決定在這個週末將它完全公開，讓所有⼈都能免費閱讀。如果你讀完覺得有所啟
發，請不吝幫我點個讚，這對我是極⼤的⿎勵。
最近有不少新朋友加⼊，有位讀者問了我⼀個很好的問題。
「 KP ，我剛加⼊，應該如何開始閱讀你的分析呢？需要從第⼀期按順序讀起嗎？」
這個問題之所以問得極好，是因為他沒有把這裡的分析當作「看完即丟」的投機代碼，⽽
是看作了某種可以反覆研讀的知識資產。
我⼀直強調，我的分析從來不是為了告訴你「今天該買什麼、明天該賣什麼」，這裡的⼤
多數⽂章都經得起時間的考驗。
哪怕是半年、甚⾄⼀年後重新拿出來重讀，你依然能從中獲得新的啟發。
加⼊  FOMO 研究院，本質上是加⼊了⼀個「會⾃我迭代的動態圖書館」。
在這裡，知識是不斷複利滾動的。
你可以隨時翻看過去的⾏業拆解，套⼊當下最新的市場資訊；⽽我，也會定期在《週末思
考筆記》中更新不同⾏業的最新進展。
那麼，新加⼊的朋友（或是想重新梳理思路的舊會員），究竟該如何⾼效閱讀呢？

我的建議是：你完全不需要按順序閱讀，⽽是要「以問題為導向，從興趣出發」。
從你最有感觸的產業開始： 挑選你平常最感興趣、或⾃⼰正在關注的標的（例如你
熟悉的科技巨頭或產業⿓頭）。當你對⼀個主題保有好奇⼼時，閱讀分析報告才會事
半功倍。
篩選出你的「核⼼清單」： 在閱讀過程中，嘗試挑出  3–5 家你認為商業模式最清晰、
最容易看懂的公司。
記錄你的「投資假設」（ Investment Thesis ）： 動⼿寫下你當時看好或買進這家公司
的核⼼邏輯。
⽤時間驗證，培養「市場感」： 隨著時間推移（例如每季財報公布時），重新拿出我
的分析與你當時的記錄，去觀察市場的變化與公司的執⾏⼒是否符合預期。這是脫
離  FOMO 、培養敏銳市場直覺最快的⽅法。
投資，本質上是⼀場終⾝的「認知變現」過程。你的認知網格越寬、越深，你
對市場的雜⾳就越免疫。
最後，我想對所有新朋友與⽼朋友說：請多到我們的聊天室裡⼀起討論市場。
From KP@FOMOSoc’s subscriber chat
SUBSCRIBERS ONLY

Reply...

### Page 3

在這裡，每個⼈獨特的視⾓與思維碰撞，才是  FOMO 研究院最無價的資產。
現在，讓我們進⼊本期唯⼀的、也是最關鍵的宏觀深度主題。
不妨先按讚後看喔 !
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.
Subscribed
升息  = 市場要跌，可以說是很多⼈的肌⾁記憶。
其中⼀個主要原因，是上⼀次的升息週期，實在太痛苦了。
但我先說結論，這次升息不會是 2022 那次。
為什麼這不是  2022
把時間倒回  2022 年，當時  Fed 的處境⾮常狼狽。
通膨⼀路衝到  8% 以上，供應鏈⼤亂、政府發的補貼充斥市場，加上到處都在缺⼯，物價
幾乎是全⾯性失控。

### Page 4

那時候利率還躺在零利率時代， Fed 發現⾃⼰⼤幅落後市場後，只能⽤極端的⽅式補救：
25 、 50 、 75 、 75 、 75 個基點猛升，⼀年內直接把利率拉超過  4.25% 。
2026 年呢？
⾸先，起點不⼀樣了。
升息之前，利率在  3.50% 到  3.75% 附近，距離市場估計的中性利率不遠。升完這碼之後來
到  3.75% 到  4.00% ，已經略偏緊，但遠不到  2022 年那種從零起步的追趕。
第⼆，通膨的體質不⼀樣了。
2022 年是萬物⿑漲、全⾯失控；這次  CPI 年增率停在  3.4% ，核⼼  PCE 落在  3.3% ，沒有惡
化，但也還沒出現明確回落的趨勢。

### Page 5

8 ⽉汽油單⽉漲了  3.9% ，撐⾼了整體數字，但剝掉能源之後，物價的壓⼒是結構性的，不
是全⾯失控的那種。
如果  2022 年是房⼦著⽕、消防員拿⽔管猛灌，現在⽐較像是⼤⽕熄了，但殘
⽕還在悶燒，⾵向稍微不對就可能復燃。
Fed 順⼿再澆桶⽔，不是因為⽕變⼤了，是因為不敢賭它⾃⼰會滅。
直接拿  2022 年那套劇本來套⽤，很容易抓錯重點。起點不同、通膨結構不同， Fed 的決策
邏輯也完全變了。
既然  2022 年不適⽤，現在該拿哪⼀年的劇本來對照？
1994 年：通膨還沒起⾶，格林斯潘先出⼿了
時間回到  1990 年代初期。美股剛⾛出衰退， Fed 把利率調降到  3% 後停了⾜⾜  17 個⽉。
到了  1994 年初，經濟復甦⼒道很強，失業率⼀路下滑，產能利⽤率不斷升⾼，整個市場
都在加速運轉。
當時的通膨數據其實很溫和， CPI 穩定落在  2.5% 到  3% 之間，甚⾄偶爾還微幅⾛低。
但當時的  Fed 主席格林斯潘擔⼼的是未來。他認為如果等通膨真的爆發才反應就太慢了，

趁著經濟強勁，必須預先收回過度寬鬆的資⾦。
這原本是⼀場標準的「預防性緊縮」，沒想到後續演變成極其猛烈的升息潮：
2 ⽉和  3 ⽉的例會各升  1 碼， 4 ⽉中甚⾄開了⼀場臨時會議再加  1 碼。但當時市場以為這
只是微幅點煞⾞。
到了  5 ⽉，腳步開始加快，改為⼀次升  2 碼； 11 ⽉甚⾄直接猛拉  3 碼。
整整⼀年內， Fed 連續升息  7 次，把利率從  3% ⼀路灌到  6% ，總共加了  300 個基點。

### Page 6

市場當時犯的最⼤錯誤，就是低估了  Fed 的狠勁。⼤家原本預估這輪頂多升到  4.25% 就會
打住，結果終點線被不斷往後推。
那年，債券市場迎來著名的「 1994 債券⼤屠殺」。
10 年期美債殖利率從  5.6% ⼀路衝破  8% ， 30 年期⻑債價格直接蒸發兩成。⾼槓桿資⾦被
迫斷頭賣出，整年債券市值失⾎⾼達數千億美元。

### Page 7

升息如此兇猛，你可能會想，股市肯定跌得很慘了。
答案可能有點出乎意料， 1994 年的標普  500 指數全年微跌約  1.5% ，最⼤回撤僅約  8.9% 。
但是，如果我們看深⼀層的話，會發現雖然表⾯上沒爆發熊市背後有強烈的分化。
到了  1994 年  11 ⽉底，全美上市股票中有超過  40% 的個股⾃⾼點重挫超過  30% ，市場內
部經歷了⼀場「隱形熊市」。

### Page 8

我們來看看⼀些主要板塊：
公⽤事業（ Utilities ）： 全年跌幅超過⼀成。作為典型的「⾼配息替代品」，當美債殖利率
衝破  8% 後，資⾦⼤量撤離此板塊，轉投無⾵險美債。
營建與房產（ Homebuilders ）： 不少個股回撤達超過 25% 。 30 年期房貸利率從  7% 迅速飆
升⾄  9.2% ，直接讓購屋需求降⾄冰點。
⾼負債中⼩盤股： 普遍重摔  30% 以上。這類企業仰賴浮動利率貸款或⾼利債融資，利率
⼤漲導致利息⽀出劇增，直接吞噬本業獲利。
科技與⼤型藍籌股： 表現相對堅挺甚⾄逆勢上揚。當時科技股受惠於個⼈電腦與網際網路
初期的需求浪潮，憑藉強勁的盈餘成⻑硬⽣⽣抵禦了利率衝擊。

### Page 9

估值乘數（ P/E Multiple ）的擠壓
1994 年美企的獲利基本⾯其實不差，標普  500 整體  EPS 在該年實現了雙位數成⻑。
然⽽，殖利率從  5.6% 飆升⾄  8% 深刻擠壓了市場估值，標普  500 的本益⽐明顯壓縮，估
值被砍了⼤約兩成。
⼤盤之所以能⾛平，完全是靠「企業盈餘成⻑」抵消了「估值下修」的衝擊。

### Page 10

1994 年對股市最核⼼的教訓是：預防性緊縮不⼀定會殺死整體經濟，但會對⾼
槓桿與利率敏感型資產進⾏極其嚴苛的篩選。
如果  Fed 在⾼檔區間進⾏微調，⼤盤指數未必會出現⼤幅重挫，但資⾦會迅速從仰賴便宜
資⾦存活的企業撤離，集中流向具備⾃由現⾦流與訂價權的⿓頭。
指數平靜的背後，往往掩蓋著個股層⾯的殘酷淘汰。
驚險萬分的軟著陸
這場看似粗暴的緊縮，最後卻迎來意想不到的結局。
1995 年美國經濟順利放緩卻沒有掉⼊衰退，通膨也成功被壓住。

### Page 11

Fed 隨後在  1995 年  7 ⽉率先降息，市場隨即解除警報，美股更在  1995 年⼤漲約  30% ，開
啟了  90 年代後半段的⼤⽜市。
1994 年成了歷史上少⾒的「軟著陸」範本。Fed 成功按住了通膨預期，過程雖然對⾦融市
場造成劇烈震撼，卻為接下來⻑達數年的經濟榮景奠定了基礎。
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.
Subscribed
1997 年：同⼀套預防哲學，但只輕輕點了⼀
下煞⾞
時間來到  1997 年春天。
前兩年  Fed 剛⼩幅降息完，利率停在  5.25% 。當時美國經濟極其強勁，失業率⼀路掉到
5% 附近的  23 年新低，消費與投資需求⾮常旺盛。
有趣的是，通膨數據完全沒有爆發，甚⾄穩定壓在  2% 左右，⽐  1994 年格林斯潘動⼿前還

要低。

### Page 12

當時正值電腦與網際網路技術⼤爆發，企業⽣產⼒出現結構性躍升。
格林斯潘當時獨排眾議，認為技術進步擋住了通膨。即便勞動市場吃緊、薪資上揚，企業
也能靠⽣產⼒吸收成本，不需要調漲售價。
格林斯潘依然堅持他的預防性哲學：趁著經濟強勁，先輕踩⼀腳煞⾞，才能讓這波榮景⾛
得更⻑遠。
不過他這次認為，當時的資⾦環境遠沒有  1994 年那麼鬆散，沒必要再來⼀輪⾼⾼舉起的
猛烈升息。
1997 年  3 ⽉  25 ⽇， Fed 只宣佈升息  1 碼，將利率拉到  5.50% 。
格林斯潘隨後在公開場合向市場安撫：「 1997 年絕不會變成  1994 年。」
接下來的發展成了這段歷史最經典的部分：
5 ⽉會議， Fed 按兵不動。 7 ⽉會議，繼續不動。 1997 年剩下的所有會議，通通停⼿。
到了  1998 年亞洲⾦融⾵暴與  LTCM 倒閉， Fed 甚⾄直接轉向降息。
1997 年這唯⼀的⼀次升息，成為了歷史上少有的「中途單次微調（ One-off Hike ）」。
對未來的恐懼

### Page 13

升息當天，市場反應相當平淡，因為這  1 碼早在預料之中。
真正的拉回發⽣在接下來的⼀個⽉。市場開始疑神疑⿁，瘋狂猜測「這會不會只是第⼀
槍」、「後⾯是不是還藏著下⼀碼」。
這種對未來的恐懼，硬⽣⽣拉著道瓊指數在⼀個⽉內修正了整整  10% 。
在這段震盪期中，資⾦出現了極端的分化。利率敏感的⾦融與週期股遭到拋售，資⾦迅速
湧向具備技術壁壘與⾼成⻑性的科技巨頭，市場在恐懼中完成了⼀次激烈的板塊輪動。
然後，數據開始幫忙。
第⼀季過後，消費需求開始放緩，全年  CPI 通膨甚⾄⼀路滑落到  1.7% 。
⽣產⼒提升的數據獲得證實，⻑端美債殖利率不僅沒有飆升，反⽽⼀路倒開⾞往下⾛。

### Page 14

市場透過買進⻑債告訴  Fed ：我們相信這⼀碼⾜以鎖死通膨，未來不需要更⾼的利率環
境。市場也隨之將「第⼆次升息」的預期從資產定價中完全抹去。
到了  5 ⽉  20 ⽇， Fed 正式宣佈利率不變。
這個訊號瞬間消除了市場的疑慮，道瓊與那斯達克當天⼤漲， 30 年期美債殖利率⼀路滑落
⾄  6.90% 。
媒體甚⾄直接下了標題：「不⽤再看着 Fed 了。」 (Fed Watch is dead)
確認「⼀碼就停」後的絕地⼤反攻

### Page 15

當市場確認  Fed 不會開啟新的升息循環後，⻑端利率下⾏帶動折現率下降，股債雙⽅迎來
爆發性成⻑：
三個⽉後：  標普  500 上漲約  13% ， 10 年期美債殖利率回落  32 個基點。
六個⽉後：  標普  500 漲幅擴⼤⾄  19% ，殖利率繼續下滑  64 個基點。
⼀年之後：  標普  500 狂飆約  40% ， 10 年期美債殖利率⼤跌超過  100 個基點。
1997 年成了過去三⼗多年來， Fed 啟動升息後  12 個⽉內美股表現最好的案例之⼀。
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.
Subscribed
這給今天最⼤的啟⽰
微調本⾝其實不可怕，真正折磨⼈的是市場對未知的不確定感。只要⼤家看清這只是⼀次
性的保險動作，資⾦隨時會重新傾巢⽽出。

這裡⾯有三個⾮常值得思考的層⾯：

### Page 16

當時格林斯潘敢只升⼀碼就停⼿，底氣來⾃電腦與網際網路帶來的⽣產⼒紅利。企業靠著
效率提升消化了成本，才沒讓通膨蔓延。
有趣的是，這跟現在市場寄望  AI 提升⽣產⼒、壓低⻑期通膨成本的邏輯⾮常
相似。
升息初期出現的那波  10% 修正，純粹是市場在消化「央⾏到底要⾛多遠」的疑慮。
在這個震盪過程中，資⾦會⾃動進⾏篩選，快速從體質弱的個股撤出，重新集中到現⾦流
強勁的科技⿓頭⾝上。
最後，⻑端美債殖利率是觀察資⾦⼤⽅向的最好指標。
只要⻑債殖利率停⽌爬升並轉頭往下，就代表市場已經認定升息到頂，資⾦⾃然會重新回
流股市，開啟⼀輪估值修復的⾏情。

### Page 17

1999 ：升息期間，股市照漲不誤
1999 年的那場故事，精彩在於它完全打破了「升息等於股市受壓」的教科書邏輯。
如果歷史只停留在  1994 年的連續劇烈加息，或是  1997 年那種預防針式的單次調整，結論
會過於乾淨。但  1999 年提供了第三種讓⼈意想不到的劇本。
前⼀年的  1998 年，亞洲⾦融⾵暴、俄羅斯債務違約，再加上⻑期資本管理公司（ LTCM ）
這巨鱷倒閉，聯準會為了救市，果斷把利率從  5.50% ⼀路降到  4.75% 。這是⼀套標準的預
防性降息。
但危機來得快去得也快，實體經濟的需求從未真正冷卻。到了  1999 年  6 ⽉，聯準會決定
把當初多給的資⾦收回來。

### Page 18

從  4.75% 開跑，聯準會⼀路爬坡到  6.50% 。前⾯連續五次升息  1 碼，最後再補上⼀記  2 碼
的重拳，總共抽回了  1.75 個百分點。
格林斯潘越加息越焦慮：就業市場緊繃、消費意願⾼昂，更棘⼿的是，股票越
漲，市場的資⾦環境就越寬鬆，加息的效果彷彿全被股市的⽕熱給抵銷了。
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.
Subscribed
資⾦與情緒的狂歡：央⾏失靈與財富效應
市場的反應簡直像在嘲笑央⾏：

### Page 19

標普  500 指數： 在整個升息循環期間逆勢上漲  6.8% ， 1999 全年漲幅達  21% 。
那斯達克指數： 1999 單年暴漲  86% ，寫下狂熱紀錄。
債券市場： 30 年期美債殖利率從  5.1% 飆到  6.5% ，承受實打實的賣壓。
表⾯上榮景⼀⽚，⽔⾯下卻早已嚴重撕裂。在  1999 年的那斯達克，將近⼀半的股票其實
整年都在下跌。傳統產業乏⼈問津，所有資⾦都砸向少數極度狂熱的科技股。

### Page 20

這背後揭⽰了⼀個讓央⾏無⼒的真相：利率與真實⾦融條件產⽣了嚴重脫節。
傳統教科書主張「升息等於緊縮」，但在  1999 年，升息導致的借貸成本上升，完全被股市
飆漲帶來的巨⼤「財富效應」淹沒。
企業與個⼈因為持有暴漲的科技股，資產負債表看起來極度健康，融資與消費能⼒不降反
升。
聯準會雖然升了名義利率，但整體的「⾦融條件」反⽽越升越寬鬆。
這也是葛林斯潘當時感到最無⼒的「央⾏失靈」時刻，當市場情緒戰勝了資⾦成本，利率
槓桿便暫時失靈。
CapEx 的硬傷：當想像⼒撞上供給過剩
泡沫的破裂不只是情緒退潮，更是基本⾯資本⽀出（ CapEx ）週期的必然結果。
1990 年代末，電信業者與科技公司發⾏了⼤量⾼收益債與可轉換公司債，進⾏了極其瘋狂
的光纖網路與伺服器鋪設。
但到了  2000 年初，這些鋪設的硬體發現產能嚴重過剩，當時⾼達  90% 以上的光纖處於未
激活的「暗光纖（ Dark Fiber ）」狀態。

### Page 21

當資本回報率無法跟上瘋狂的⽀出，企業的  CapEx 瞬間急煞⾞。
升息提⾼了這些⾼負債企業的續命成本，最終引爆了債務違約與  CapEx 斷崖式下跌，這
才是殺傷實體經濟與企業盈利的致命⼀擊。
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.
Subscribed
當故事講不下去的時候
到了  2000 年  5 ⽉，聯準會送上了最後⼀次  2 碼的猛烈加息，將利率推上  6.50% 的頂峰。
聯準會之所以在這個位置「收⼿」，並⾮他們精準預知了泡沫頂點，⽽是他們判斷利率已
經到了⾜夠緊縮的位置，再往上加的邊際效果有限。

### Page 22

停⼿的時候，實體經濟的裂縫其實還沒有完全浮現。連續升息的滯後效應在接下來幾個⽉
才逐步顯現：企業借貸成本過⾼，製造業  PMI 跌破榮枯線，經濟成⻑明顯放緩，通膨威脅
終於被壓了下來。
但令⼈唏噓的是，停⽌升息並沒有救了市場。泡沫的破裂跟聯準會停不停⼿已經沒有關係
了。隨後的  12 個⽉中，標普  500 指數重挫約  12% ，千禧年網路泡沫正式破裂。
把鏡頭拉回現在，歷史的韻腳似曾相識，卻也有著三個根本性的結構差異：
花錢的底氣不同： 1999 年⼤家是靠借⾼利貸（發垃圾債）來砸錢搶光纖，許多公司
根本沒賺過⼀⽑錢；現在這波  AI ⼤潮，主要是由幾家⼝袋極深、現⾦流源源不絕的
巨頭拿⾃家的利潤在砸錢，防禦⼒強得多。
設備有沒有⼈⽤： 當年的光纖鋪好後⾼達  90% 閒置；但現在的  AI 晶⽚與電⼒，雖
然⼤家也在算投資回報，但⾄少⽬前的算⼒與伺服器⼀上架就被搶購⼀空，還沒出
現當年那種⼤⾯積「空置」的慘況。
⾼利率的感受： 當年股市的暴漲讓所有⼈無視利率升⾼的痛感；現在雖然科技股同

樣⽕熱帶來富裕感，但⾼利率對普通⺠眾買房、中⼩企業借錢的壓迫感，依然⽐當
年明顯很多。
1999 年這段歷史留下的啟⽰很簡單：當市場上⼀場巨⼤的資本⽀出與估值狂歡
已經形成，升息循環未必能⽴刻潑熄⼤⽕，泡沫甚⾄能靠著⾃⾝的情緒運轉持

### Page 23

續⾃我膨脹。
可⼀旦這個故事⾃我⽡解，無論是資本⽀出難以變現，還是財富效應反轉，聯準會究竟是
停⼿還是繼續加息，都已經無法阻⽌潮⽔退去。
三段歷史，⼀個共同規律
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.
Subscribed
就像搭海盜船遊戲⼀樣，真正讓⼈⼼裡發⽑的，往往不是船搖得有多⾼，⽽是你根本不知
道它什麼時候才會停。
股市⾯對「升息」這件事，其實也是完全⼀樣的道理。
把剛才三段歷史拿出來看，你會發現⼀個超違反直覺的事實：光是「升息」這兩個字，根
本殺不死股市。
• 1994 年：聯準會狂升息，股市整年其實只是橫著⾛，根本沒崩盤。
• 1997 年：升息完才過了短短⼀年，標普  500 指數直接猛漲了  40% 。
• 1999 年：聯準會邊升息、股市邊狂歡，納斯達克全年甚⾄誇張地暴漲了  86% 。

如果升息不可怕，那⼤家到底在怕什麼？
答案是：未知。也就是「不知道到底還要再升幾次」。
1994 年那次就是最經典的例⼦。⼀開始⼤家以為升到  4.25% 就封頂了，結果聯準會⼀路⼀
⼝氣拉到  6% 。
每次終點線⼀往後移，市場就把算盤拿出來重新計算股票的價值，然後默默把股價往下砍
⼀次。
所以你看，股票不是被升息給壓垮的，是被「怎麼⼜往後延了」這種懸在半空的焦慮感給
折磨的。
⼀旦等到  1995 年初最後⼀碼終於落地，⼤家確定「好，真的到此為⽌了！」，接下來整整
⼀年，標普  500 直接爽快地⼤拉了  30% 。
1997 年更乾脆，市場只花了⼀個⽉就看懂「這次升⼀碼就會收⼿」。⼼⼀定下來，買盤⽴
刻湧進去，⼤盤連等都不等就直接起⾶。
⾄於  1999 年⽐較像個特例。當時科技股的泡沫太⼤、太瘋狂，狂熱的買氣直接把升息的
壓⼒給抵銷掉了。但那場派對後來的結局，就跟升不升息沒關係了。畢竟泡沫⻑太⼤，⾃
⼰總有⼀天會吹破。

### Page 24

總結來說，這三段歷史其實只教了我們同⼀件事：
股市真的不怕升息，怕的是「沒有終點線」。
只要利率的路徑⼀清晰，市場的⼼定下來，往往就是⼤⾏情重新發動的時候；但在終點線
還模模糊糊的時候，⼤盤通常不會直接崩潰，更常⾒的反⽽是上下折騰、各吹各的調。
⽽當市場開始「上下折騰」的時候，歷史總會留下⼀個幾乎每次都重演的痕跡：嚴重的分
化。
這三次歷史留下的警⽰，道出了⼀個更冷酷的現實：⼤盤看起來沒事，絕不代
表你的持股組合也沒事。
當未來的政策路徑越模糊，願意留在場內的資⾦就越挑剔，市場的參與⾯⾃然跟著變窄。
錢永遠會選擇集中，但它們究竟會抱團躲進安全的避⾵港，還是湧向最瘋狂的故事，完全
取決於當時全場投資⼈選擇相信哪⼀邊。
也就是為甚麼你要追蹤 FOMO 研究院的原因，哈哈哈
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

Subscribed
那終點線畫在哪裡？
如果說市場怕的是沒有終點線，那 Fed ⾃⼰的地圖上，終點線到底畫在哪裡？
很多⼈⼀看到聯準會點陣圖上寫著「今年還要再升息⼀次」，就會直覺以為這是⼀份拍板
定案的承諾。
其實，點陣圖完全不是什麼鐵律，它更像是⼀條會隨⾵移動的虛線。
你可以把點陣圖想像成  18 位決策官員，各⾃根據「今天⼿邊看到的情報」，畫出⾃⼰⼼⽬
中的未來的航向。
如果兩個⽉後油價突然飆⾼、就業數據意外爆發，或是通膨⼜悄悄回升，這些官員⼿中的
筆隨時都會改畫新的路線。
怎麼證明它不是承諾？今年⾃⼰的三張點陣圖就是最好的證據。同⼀群決策者，半年之內
把⽅向盤猛⼒轉了三次：

### Page 25

三⽉： ⼤家的筆尖還指向降息，預計年底利率會降到  3.4% 。
六⽉： 中東地緣政治把通膨預測從  2.7% ⼀⼝氣推上  3.6% ，點陣圖瞬間翻⾯，變成
今年要升息⼀碼。當時委員會內部陷⼊⼤分裂， 9 個⼈喊升、 8 個⼈想觀望、 1 個⼈
甚⾄想降息。最後湊出來的  3.8% 中位數，共識薄得像⼀張紙。
九⽉： 通膨數據只微幅增加  0.1 個百分點，利率路徑卻再次被集體拉⾼：今年要再
升⼀碼到  4.1% ，明年不會降息。
同⼀份⽂件，三次轉向。點陣圖記錄的是「今天這⼀刻，⼤家覺得合適的路徑」，不是寫
給市場的保證書。
這份報告還有⼀個極度微妙的細節：通膨預測幾乎沒怎麼動。
從六⽉到九⽉，整體通膨預測只從  3.6% 微調到  3.7% ，核⼼通膨從  3.3% 調到  3.4% ， 2027
年的通膨預測甚⾄完全沒變。
與此同時，官⽅把  GDP 成⻑率上修⾄  2.3% ，失業率下修到  4.1% ，並預估這個優異的失業
率能⼀路維持到  2029 年。
這兩組數據擺在⼀起，聯準會的想法其實很清晰。

⼤家常以為考慮加息是因為通膨失控，但這次更像是官員們發現經濟體質⽐預期強韌，完
全有空間吸收額外的利率壓⼒。既然⾦融環境還有收緊空間，實體經濟也撐得住，那就順
勢再收微調⼀碼。
利率終點線的位置，很⼤程度取決於「經濟體系究竟能承受多⼤的緊縮⼒
道」。
正因如此，這條線才會持續變動。每⼀次有新的經濟數據公佈，市場與央⾏都得重新評估
⼀次經濟的承載⼒。
但問題來了：如果點陣圖不能當承諾，那我們到底該拿哪⼀年的劇本來對照？
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.

### Page 26

Subscribed
那現在像哪⼀個？
⽼實說，三個都像，但沒有⼀個完全像。
簡單來說，溝通⾵格像  1997 ；  委員會的點陣圖⽐較像  1994 開局；  資產結構有  1999 的影
⼦。
有點像  1997 年，但主要是姿態像。
利率起點在不鬆不緊的「中性」位置，通膨沒有狂飆，主席的措辭是「收回⼀點寬鬆」⽽
不是「果斷⾏動」。
這個「先打⼀針預防疫苗」的姿態，跟  1997 年幾乎⼀模⼀樣。
但  1997 年格林斯潘升完那⼀碼就真的停了；這次的點陣圖寫的是  18 ⼈裡  16 ⼈還要再
升，右尾偏鷹，主席也不肯把⾨關上。
所以，這部份就⽐較像  1994 年，底下的經濟底⼦⾮常強， SEP 把  2026 GDP 上修到
2.3% 、失業率下修到  4.1% ，⼤家還是很敢消費、企業也願意⼤⼿筆投資。
但萬⼀油價降了但核⼼物價死活不降，升⼀碼絕對不夠⽤，數據會硬⽣⽣逼著央⾏再升第
⼆次。
⽽  1994 年最折磨⼈的，正是市場每⼀次發現「終點⼜往後移了」，就得重新定價⼀次。

當然，亦有點像  1999 年，都是先降過⼀次息，再從中性位置重新出發，⽽且背後都有⼀
場超級巨⼤的科技狂潮。
當年是網際網路，現在是  AI 。
如果⼤家對  AI 的狂熱已經到了「根本不在乎資⾦會不會變緊」的地步，升息的壓⼒很可
能會被熱情直接抵銷掉，股市短時間內照樣能硬撐住。
真正該關注的，是「什麼時候能確定終點」
答案其實沒有藏在央⾏的講稿裡，全寫在接下來的物價數據裡。
故事會怎麼演，就看這兩條路：
劇本  A （⾛向  1997 年的⼤好結局）：
如果接下來油價跌了，連帶機票、⼯資這些核⼼物價也著乖乖降溫，市場就會鬆⼀⼝氣喊
出「太好了，不⽤再升第⼆次了！」
這⼀天只要被確認，資⾦就會⼤舉回流，股市能很快衝回上升軌道。

### Page 27

劇本  B （⾛向  1994 年的折磨結局）：
如果油價回落了，其他物價依然貴得要死，第⼆次升息就會從「可能」變成「逃不掉」。
⼤家會開始焦慮「那會不會有第三次？第四次？」終點線⼀被拉⻑，股市就會像  1994 年
⼀樣，進⼊上下震盪、互相折磨的磨⼈⾏情。
指數可能還撐得住，但槓桿⾼的、久期⻑的、靠再融資續命的名字會先受傷。⼤盤的平靜
會掩蓋底下的淘汰。
⾄於  AI 狂潮能不能像  1999 年那樣，憑⼀⼰之⼒頂住升息壓⼒？不是沒有可能，但這未必
是件好事。
FOMO 研究院電⼦報  is a reader-supported publication. To receive new posts and support my
work, consider becoming a free or paid subscriber.
Subscribed
總結
升息真的不等於崩盤。  歷史上這三次預防性升息，沒有⼀次讓股市直接墜崖。
但在⼤家搞清楚「到底還要升幾次」之前，股市也很難⼀路上衝，因為這種懸在半空的懸

念，會⼀直壓著股市的發揮。
歷史告訴我們，真正的絕佳買點，往往出現在「終點線終於確定」的那⼀天。
不管是  1995 年最後⼀碼落地的時刻，還是  1997 年央⾏確定不再加碼的那⼀天，市場都在
確認後拉出⼤⾏情。
現在，我們只是還在等那個「確定」的訊號出現⽽已。別太焦慮，盯緊通膨數據，它會告
訴我們答案何時揭曉。
謝謝你閱讀到這裡，如果你覺得這份筆記為你帶來了價值，請不吝按下⼀個
讚，這是我持續分享的最⼤動⼒。
我在 Facebook ， IG ， Threads 和 X 都有每天發佈當天對市場的觀察，⼤家也可以
考慮追蹤我的社交媒體。
另外我在 Telegram 有頻道，每天早上我會發當天重要新聞摘要。
同時，如果想開戶的話，可以考慮⽤我的富途 / ⼝袋證券獨家推薦碼，會有更多
優惠。
全部資訊在以下鏈結：
https://linktr.ee/fomo_soc

### Page 28

另外，如果你已經加⼊付費會員，不要浪費了群組的功能，進⼊我們 Substack
的 Chat 功能⼀起討論市場 !
· KP

Like
 Comment
 Restack

© 2026 FOMO 研究院
548 Market Street PMB 72296, San Francisco, CA 94104
Unsubscribe

---
## Document 609: 微软、谷歌在气候峰会上正面回应数据中心争议

Source PDF: all report pdf/微软、谷歌在气候峰会上正面回应数据中心争议.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

今年⼆季度，约 45 个价值 680 亿美元的数据中⼼项⽬因社区和政策反弹受阻。⾕歌、微
软、亚⻢逊等科技巨头在纽约⽓候会议上就电⼒成本、⽤⽔效率和就业问题作出回应，强
调正推进清洁能源转型与信息透明化。与此同时，电⽹升级带来的巨额融资需求正吸引摩
根⼤通等头部银⾏积极布局。
摘要：
数据中⼼建设浪潮正在引发前所未有的社会阻⼒，科技巨头反驳了对数据中⼼快速扩张的批
评。
本周微软和⾕歌⺟公司 Alphabet 的⾼管在纽约⽓候会议上，就数据中⼼快速扩张引发的多⽅批
评作出回应。双⽅分别就电⼒成本分担、劳动⼒投⼊和⽤⽔效率等核⼼争议点阐述了各⾃的应
对举措。
社区阻⼒已对项⽬落地造成实质冲击。研究机构 Data Center Watch 的报告显⽰，今年⼆季度，
约 45 个总价值 680 亿美元的数据中⼼项⽬因当地居⺠和政策层⾯的反弹⽽遭到阻⽌或延迟。
与此同时，全美已有约 30 个州议会提出涉及数据中⼼选址、电⼒及⽤⽔问题的⽴法措施，其中
多项已获通过。
政治阻⼒成最⼤变数
围绕数据中⼼的争议已超出单纯的环保范畴，演变为具有⼴泛政治动员潜⼒的议题。

⾕歌全球数据中⼼能源负责⼈ Amanda Peterson Corio 直⾔，数据中⼼当前⾯临的最⼤障碍之
⼀，是 " 在左右两派那⾥都是政治上的众⽮之的，⽽现在正值选举周期，将有更多资⾦投⼊其
中 " 。
伊利诺伊州州⻓ JB Pritzker 周⼆在⼀场⽓候活动上表⽰，外界对数据中⼼的担忧 " 是合理的 " ，理
由不仅限于庞⼤的电⼒需求，还涉及⽤⽔、噪⾳及分区规划等问题。
但他并未主张全⾯禁⽌，⽽是强调应设置前提条件：
G2 Venture Partners 合伙⼈ Brook Porter 则持不同看法。该基⾦是  Crusoe 的早期投资⽅，后者
正于得州阿⽐林建设  OpenAI 的⼤型 “ 星际之⻔ ” 项⽬。
Porter 认为，尽管对数据中⼼的强烈反对声浪很普遍，但这 “ 有点不理性 ” 。本质上源于公众对⼈
⼯智能尚未形成切⾝体验， " ⼤多数⼈还没有亲历过 AI 带来的好处，现在它只是⼀个令⼈恐惧的
威胁，好像会抢⾛我的⼯作⼀样 " 。
科技巨头着⼒管控三⼤争议
⾯对舆论压⼒，微软、⾕歌和亚⻢逊等头部企业将成本、就业与⽤⽔列为重点回应⽅向。

如果我们要允许它们落地，就必须确保它们⾃带清洁能源，并采⽤闭路⽔循环系统。这是必须要
求的。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
72 收藏 分享到 :
微软⾸席可持续发展官 Melanie Nakagawa 在彭博绿⾊峰会上表⽰，社区提出的问题 " ⾮常重
要 " ，已推动各⽅就 " 电⼒⽅⾯消费者应当期待什么 " 展开深⼊讨论。
她介绍，微软正致⼒于将数据中⼼相关成本进⾏ " 隔离 " 处理，以避免转嫁⾄普通消费者，同时聚
焦劳动⼒⽀持与⽔资源利⽤效率。她说：
在⽤⽔⽅⾯， Nakagawa 表⽰，微软今年已在可持续发展报告中公开披露了各数据中⼼园区的具
体⽤⽔数据。
亚⻢逊⾸席可持续发展官 Kara Hurst 则补充称，亚⻢逊 90% 的时间并不使⽤⽔冷系统为数据中⼼
降温， " 这是⼀个重要数据，因为外界存在⼤量关于⽤⽔的错误信息 " 。
Hurst 还呼吁重新关注电⽹稳定性问题，强调需要完善政策以推动⻛能、太阳能和核能等清洁能

源投资。
新兴市场难以承接溢出需求，银⾏业瞄准电⽹升级机遇
对于全球数据中⼼版图的扩展前景，世界银⾏⾏⻓ Ajay Banga 在峰会上泼了⼀盆冷⽔。
他表⽰，新兴市场⼏乎不具备⼤规模兴建数据中⼼的条件， " 新兴市场没有多少数据中⼼，⽽且
也不会有，请相信我。你需要⼤量算⼒，需要⼤量电⼒ —— 在某些情况下甚⾄超过发达国家的
供给⽔平，更遑论这些发展中国家 " 。
数据中⼼带来的电⼒需求激增，也正在重塑⾦融机构的业务重⼼。
多家全球头部银⾏借助本周纽约系列会议的契机，积极争夺美国电⽹⼤规模升级带来的融资商
机。
摩根⼤通全球可持续发展负责⼈ Heather Zichal 透露，该⾏计划在本次活动期间与逾 100 位客⼾
会⾯，电⽹现代化融资是讨论的核⼼议题之⼀。 Zichal 说：
在美国，投资劳动⼒队伍在当下极为关键。
我们正在进⼊⼀个时代，电⼒获取能⼒将⽇益决定企业在哪⾥投资、成⻓和竞争。
限免

### Page 3

写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 671: 消費者物価（全国26年8月）－コアCPI上昇率は10月に2％台へ

Source PDF: all report pdf/消費者物価（全国26年8月）－コアCPI上昇率は10月に2％台へ.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-18
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1． コア CPI 上昇率は 8 ヵ月連続の 1％台 
総務省統計局が 9 月 18 日に公表した消費者物価指数によると、26 年 8 月の消費者物価（全国、
生鮮食品を除く総合、 以下コアCPI） は前年比 1.7％（7
月：同1.8％）となり、上昇率は前月から0.1 ポイント
縮小した。事前の市場予想（QUICK 集計：1.8％、当社
予想も1.8％）を下回る結果であった。 
ティッシュ・ トイレットペーパー、ポリ袋などの家事
用消耗品、 テレビ、 タブレット端末などの教養娯楽用耐
久財の上昇率が拡大したことに加え、高額療養費制度の
自己負担限度額引き上げの影響 で診療代の伸びが高ま
った。 一方、 食料 （除く生鮮食品）の上昇率鈍化が続い
たこと、 電気・都市ガス代の支援策再開により、 エネル
ギー価格が下落に転じたことがコアCPI を押し下げた。 
生鮮食品及びエネルギーを除く総合（コアコアCPI）
は前年比 1.9％（7 月：同 1.9％）、総合は前年比 1.9％
（7 月：同1.9％）となった。

コア CPI の内訳をみると、電気・都市ガス代の支援策が再開され、電気代の下落率が7 月の前年
比▲0.1％から同▲2.4％へ拡大したことを主因として、 エネルギー価格が前年比▲0.7％（7 月：同
0.6％）と下落に転じた。

食料（生鮮食品を除く） は前年比2.7％（7 月：同3.0％）と上昇率が前月から0.3 ポイント縮小
した。食料（生鮮食品を除く）は25 年 7 月の前年比 8.3％をピークに13 ヵ月連続で上昇率が鈍化
した。 
米類（7 月：同▲11.6％→8 月：同▲15.7％）は 4 ヵ月連続で下落し、下落率は前月から拡大し
た。価格水準も 9 ヵ月連続で前月から低下し、この間の下落幅は▲21.8％となった。米の関連品目
は、すし（弁当）Ｂ（7 月：前年比2.6％→8 月：同3.7％）、すし（外食）Ａ（7 月：前年比7.9％
→8 月：同11.2％） 、冷凍米飯（7 月：前年比9.8％→8 月：同14.3％）の上昇率が高まる一方、す
ニッセイ基礎研究所

2026-09-18

消費者物価（全国 26 年 8 月）－コア CPI
上昇率は 10 月に 2％台へ

総　　合 生鮮食品を 生鮮食品及び 食料（酒類除く）
除く総合 ｴﾈﾙｷﾞｰを除く 及びｴﾈﾙｷﾞｰを
総合 除く総合
25年 4月 3.6 3.5 3.0 1.6
5月 3.5 3.7 3.3 1.6
6月 3.3 3.3 3.4 1.6
7月 3.1 3.1 3.4 1.6
8月 2.7 2.7 3.3 1.6
9月 2.9 2.9 3.0 1.3
10月 3.0 3.0 3.1 1.6
11月 2.9 3.0 3.0 1.6
12月 2.1 2.4 2.9 1.5
26年 1月 1.5 1.9 2.5 1.5
2月 1.3 1.5 2.4 1.5
3月 1.5 1.7 2.4 1.6
4月 1.4 1.4 1.9 1.2
5月 1.5 1.4 1.8 1.2
6月 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.2
7月 1.9 1.8 1.9 1.4
8月 1.9 1.7 1.9 1.6
(資料）総務省統計局「消費者物価指数」
全　　　　　　　国
消  費  者  物  価  指  数  の  推  移

### Page 2

サービスは前年比1.2％（7 月：同1.2％）と上昇率は前月と変わらなかった。外食（7 月：前年
比1.7％→8 月：同2.1％）が3 ヵ月連続で上昇率が拡大したほか、診療代 （7 月：前年比1.6％→8
月：同3.2％） 、外国パック旅行費（7 月：前年比5.6％→8 月：同9.7％）の伸びが高まったが、宿
泊料 （7 月 ： 前年比0.9％→8 月：同▲1.4％）、
携帯電話通信料（7 月：前年比 4.6％→8 月：
同3.2％）の伸びが鈍化した。

コア CPI 上昇率を寄与度分解すると、エネ
ルギーが▲0.05％（7 月：0.05％） 、食料（除
く生鮮食品 ・ 外食）が0.55％（7 月：0.67％） 、
その他財が0.66％（7 月：0.44％） 、サービス
が0.57％（7 月：0.62％）であった。

2． コア CPI の上昇ペースは加速へ 
コア CPI 上昇率は8 ヵ月連続の 1％台となったが、消費者物価の川上に当たる国内企業物価はす
でに大幅に上昇している。 
日本銀行の「企業物価指数」によれば、中東情勢の影響を受けた原油価格の上昇や既往の円安を
反映し、 輸入物価指数は前年比20～30％程度、 国内企業物価指数は前年比7％台の高い伸びとなっ
ている。輸入物価、国内企業物価といった川上・川中段階では中東情勢の影響を受けた物価の急上
昇がすでに顕在化している。 
現時点では消費者物価への波及は限定的だが、ティッシュ・トイレットペーパー、ラップ、ポリ
袋などの家事用消耗品（7 月：前年比 6.3％→8 月：同 10.1％）など、一部では原材料費、物流費
などの上昇分を価格転嫁する動きが見られるようになっている。

食料（生鮮食品を除く）は 25 年 7 月の前年比
8.3％をピークに鈍化が続いてい るが、先行きに
ついては 上昇率の低下 に歯止めがかかる兆しが
みられる。 
帝国データバンクの 「食品主要195 社価格動向
調査」 （8/31 公表）によれば、26 年（1～11 月）
の飲食料品の値上げ品目数は 1 万 9083 品目とな
り、前年同時期の 2 万 34 品目を下回っている。
しかし、 中東情勢悪化に伴う原材料価格の上昇を
▲2.0%
▲1.0%
0.0%
1.0%
2.0%
3.0%
4.0%
5.0%
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
エネルギー 食料（除く生鮮、外食） その他財 サービス
消費者物価（生鮮食品を除く総合）の要因分解（前年比）
消費者物価（生鮮食品を除く総合）
（資料）総務省統計局「消費者物価指数」
（年・月）
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
-10,000
-5,000
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
飲食料品の値上げ品目数と消費者物価
（資料）帝国データバンク「食品主要195社価格動向調査」、総務省統計局「消費者物価指数」
（注）値上げ品目数は先行き3ヵ月の予定（合計）
（品目数） （前年比）
（年・月）
飲食料品・値上げ品目数
（値上げ品目数の前年同月差）
消費者物価（生鮮食品、外食を除く食料、右目盛）

### Page 3

今後、食料品、日用品など幅広い品目で値上げの動きが本格化することが見込まれる。 さらに、
電気・都市ガス代の支援策終了も加わることから、コアCPI 上昇率は26 年 10 月に 2％台、26 年度
末にかけて3％台まで高まると予想する。なお、電気・都市ガス代の支援策は27 年 1～3 月分で前
年を上回る規模で再開されることを前提としている。

本誌記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本誌は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

---
## Document 766: 酷暑の先に厳冬リスクを抱える欧州経済

Source PDF: all report pdf/酷暑の先に厳冬リスクを抱える欧州経済.pdf
Report source: MURC
Date: 2026-09-09
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 9 月 9 日

MURC Focus

酷暑の先に厳冬リスクを抱える欧州経済

～過去最低水準の天然ガス貯蔵率で冬を迎える～

調査部 主任研究員 土田 陽介

1. 堅調だった 4～6 月期の実質 GDP 
5 月以降、欧州は酷暑に見舞われており、さまざまな経済活動が圧迫されている。一方、欧州連合（EU）の 4
～6 月期の実質 GDP（国内総生産）の確定値は前期比0.6%増と、1～3 月期（同 0.1%増）から増勢が加速した。
主要な需要項目別には、内需は個人消費が増勢を加速させたほか、総固定資本形成が増加に転じ た。また外
需（純輸出）も、輸出のけん引を受けて大幅に反発し、景気を押し上げた。

ユーロ高基調にもかかわらず 4～6 月期の輸出が堅調だった理由としては、いわゆる“トランプ関税”の影響の
一巡があると考えられる。事実、名目輸出の動きを仕向け地別に確認すると、対米輸出が着実に回復しているこ
とがうかがい知れる。それ以外には、非 EU 欧州向けが底堅く増加していることが特徴的である。具体的には英
国やスイスといった国々向けの輸出である。 
図表 1. EU27 カ国の実質 GDP（確定値） 図表 2. EU27 カ国の EU 域外名目輸出

（出所）欧州連合統計局（ユーロスタット）

（注 1）季節調整前の原系列で作成。 
（注 2）その他のうち目立つものは中南米向け、カナダ向けなど。 
（出所）ユーロスタット 
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
22 23 24 25 26
個人消費 政府支出
総固定資本形成 純輸出
誤差・脱漏 GDP
（前期比、%）
（年、四半期）
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
25年7~9月期 25年10~12月期 26年1~3月期 26年4~6月期
米国 非EU欧州
アフリカ 中国
ASEAN+インド その他
EU外
（前期差、10億ユーロ）
〇EU の4～6月期の輸出の堅調は技術的な性格によるところが大きく、その意味で実質 GDP の成長加速も過
大評価されている可能性が意識される。 
〇先行きの EU 経済を展望すると、年末年始にかけては、厳冬に伴うエネルギーインフレの深刻化で、景気が
下振れするリスクがある。 
〇EU はこの間、第三国からの調達を増やしてきたが、それでも 天然ガス貯蔵率は歴史的低水準にある。イラ
ン発のエネルギーショックの下で天然ガスの脱ロシア化を敢行したことの代償は大きい。

### Page 2

なおその他の仕向け地のうち、欧州内で目立つ先としては EU の加盟候補国（西バルカン諸国・トルコ）向けが
ある。一方、欧州外では、トランプ関税の発効 など米国の保護主義政策の台頭を警戒し、相互で貿易の拡大で
合意に達した国または地域との貿易の拡大が目立つ。具体的には 、カナダや中南米（メルコスール）、オーストラ
リア向けなどである。

このように分解すると、4～6 月期に堅調だった輸出だが、対米輸出はテクニカルな側面での反発の可能性が
高い。さらに非 EU 欧州向けの輸出だが、これは EU を含めた欧州経済全体の内需の底堅さを反映したもので
あり、必ずしも“外需”とは言えない性格を持つ。したがって、4～6 月期の輸出の堅調は技術的な性格によるとこ
ろが大きく、その意味で実質 GDP の成長加速も過大評価されている可能性がある。

2. 先行きに待ち構える厳冬に伴うエネルギーインフレリスク 
先行きの EU 経済を展望すると、年末年始にかけては、厳冬に伴うエネルギーインフレの深刻化で、景気が下
振れするリスクがある。EU27 カ国の消費者物価は直近 7 月時点で前年比 3.0%上昇と強含んでいる。2 月末に
生じたイラン発のエネルギーショックを受けて欧州のエネルギー価格も高騰し ており、それがインフレの加速につ
ながっている。

一方、EU の天然ガス貯蔵率は 9 月 7 日時点で 66.9%と、過去最低水準である（図表 3）。今年の EU の天然
ガス貯蔵率はそもそも年初から歴史的な低水準だったが、EU はイラン発のエネルギーショックにもかかわらず、
脱ロシアの観点からロシア産天然ガスの輸入を絞り込んだ。具体的には、短期契約による液化天然ガス（LNG ）
の輸入を 4 月 25 日から、パイプライン経由での天然ガス輸入を 6 月 17 日から、それぞれ禁じた。

図表 3. EU の天然ガス貯蔵率 図表 4. 欧州の天然ガス価格（オランダ TTF 先物）

（出所）Gas Infrastructure Europe

（出所）インターコンチネンタル取引所 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
（月）
（%）
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
24 25 26
（ユーロ/MWh）
（年、月）

### Page 3

EU は米国産 LNG を中心に第三国からの天然ガスの調達に努めてきたが、12 月頭までに 80%とする今年の
目標を達成することなく本格的な需要期である冬に突入することが ほぼ確実な情勢となった。暖冬であれば天然
ガス需要が減退すると期待されるが、厳冬の場合は需要が刺激されるため天然ガス価格は高騰を余儀なくされる。
そうなれば、欧州のインフレが一段と上振れすることになる。

すでに年末にかけては、今夏の酷暑に伴う農作物の不作を受けて食品インフレが顕在化する恐れが強まって
いる。さらに厳冬となれば、ガス需給が ひっ迫し、エネルギーインフレ がさらに強まることになる。 現在、太平洋で
歴史的な規模の“スーパー・エルニーニョ”が発達しており、この現象のもとで今夏の酷暑は生じた。 今冬は基本
的に暖かいと予想されているものの、冬半ば以降は厳しい寒波が到来すると予想されている。

なお欧州の天然ガス価格の指標であるオランダ TTF 先物（図表 4）は上昇トレンドで推移しており、9 月の初週
にはメガワット時当たり 70 ユーロ台に突入した。このガス価格の上昇は、今冬における天然ガスの需給ひっ迫を
織り込んでいるためだと考えられる。天然ガス価格の水準はロシア発のエネルギーショックの際に比べるとまだ低
いが、今後は一段と上昇する可能性が高い。

3. 相応に大きくなりそうな脱ロシアの代償 
今年に入ってからも EU は、対ロ制裁を次々と強化しており、今秋には第 21 次パッケージ（制裁対象企業の
拡大やロシア産原油の価格キャップ制度の厳格化など）の実行が予定されている。このように EU がロシアへの
圧力を強め続ける姿勢を堅持する以上、ロシア産天然ガスの輸入再開は見込めない。ロシアも外貨不足に陥っ
ているが、EU の高圧的な姿勢に鑑みれば、正規ルートでのガス輸出に応じるかよくわからない。

EU はこの間、第三国からの調達を増やしてきたが、それでも 天然ガス貯蔵率は歴史的低水準にある。イラン
発のエネルギーショックの下で天然ガスの脱ロシア化を敢行したことの代償は大きいと言わざるを得ない。天然ガ
スは主に家庭用のコジェネレーション（熱電併給）の燃料として利用されているため、厳冬となった場合、EU の市
民生活を直撃すると懸念される。

---
## Document 771: 金融リテラシー調査（2025年）における男女の違い（金融経済教育・情報編） ～若年層でもみられる「学ぶ機会」と「情報接点」の男女差～

Source PDF: all report pdf/金融リテラシー調査（2025年）における男女の違い（金融経済教育・情報編） ～若年層でもみられる「学ぶ機会」と「情報接点」の男女差～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-25
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Flash Insights

2026 年 9 月 25 日

1/5 
金融リテラシー調査（ 2025 年）における男女の違い
（金融経済教育・情報編） 
～若年層でもみられる「学ぶ機会」と「情報接点」の男女差～ 
 政策調査部 主任研究員  鄭 美沙

1. 金融経済教育を受けた割合は男性が高い 
 本シリーズでは、金融経済教育推進機構（J-FLEC）の「金融リテラシー調査（2025 年） 」をもと
に、金融行動や金融リテラシーの男女差をみてきた（金融行動編、金融リテラシー編）。本稿で
は、金融経済教育を受けた経験や金融経済情報との接点についても、男女差が生じているのかを
考察する。 
まず、金融経済教育を受けた経験について確認する。金融リテラシー調査では、 「これまで、学
校や大学の授業、勤務先の研修、その他金融に関するセミナー等において、家計管理や生活設
計、資産形成（NISA・iDeCo等） 、金融トラブルの防止などの『金融経済教育』を受ける機会(オン
ラインを含む)はありましたか」という設問が設けられている。これに対し、 「受ける機会があ
り、自分は受けた」と回答した人の割合は、全体では8.7％であった。一方で、男女別にみると、
男性は 10.9％、女性は6.4％と、男性の方が高い（資料 1 左） 。特に18～29 歳では、男性は
16.8％、女性は10.1％と、他の年代と比べて特に男女差が大きく、若年層から性差が生じている
ことがうかがえる。

資料 1 金融経済教育を受けた経験

（出所）金融経済教育推進機構（J-FLEC）「金融リテラシー調査（2025 年）」より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成 
10.9
16.8
11.4
10.1
8.6
10.9
8.5
6.4
10.1
7.1
5.4 5.3
7.0
4.7
合計 18~29
歳
30
歳代
40
歳代
50
歳代
60
歳代
70
歳代
男性
女性
6.2
8.3 8.2
6.4
4.4 4.9 5.6
3.3
4.8
3.1 2.7 2.2 2.9
4.5
合計 18~29
歳
30
歳代
40
歳代
50
歳代
60
歳代
70
歳代
男性
女性
機会があり、受けた 機会はあったが、
受けなかった
（％） （％）

### Page 2

2/5 
また、「受ける機会があり、自分は受けた」と回答した人と、「受ける機会はあったが、自分は
受けなかった」と回答した人の割合（資料1 右）を合計し、そもそも金融経済教育を受ける機会
があった人の割合をみると、男性17.2％、女性9.8％と 2 倍近い差がある。18～29 歳でも男性
25.2％、女性15.0％と差は大きい。金融経済教育を受けたか否かの以前に、そうした機会があっ
たかどうかの段階で男女差が生じている。 
また、この値をもとに、受講機会があった人のうち実際に受講した割合を算出すると、男性は
63.7％、女性は65.8％とほぼ同水準であった。今後は、受講機会を得た人が受講するという選択
をするよう、興味・関心の喚起や受講しやすい環境づくりを進めるとともに、特に女性の受講機
会自体の拡充が必要となる。

2. 男女で異なる金融経済教育を受けた場所 
 こうした金融経済教育機会の差の背景を探るため、実際に金融経済教育を受けた人について、
その受講場所を確認する。まず、全年代でみると、勤務先の研修やセミナーを受けたという人が
多い（資料2 左） 。男性では56.0％と、金融経済教育を受けた人の半数以上が勤務先で受けてい
る。女性も39.2％と比較的多い。次に、小学校や中学校など学校教育の場で受けたとする人は男
女同程度であった。大学や勤務先で受けた人は男性の方が多く、それ以外のイベント・セミナー
等で受けた人は女性が多い。

資料 2 金融経済教育を受けた場所

（注）Nは、全年代では男性＝1,623 人、女性＝976 人。18～29 歳では男性＝374 人、女性＝222 人。複数回答。金融経済教育を
受けた人を 100％とした受講場所の構成であり、回答者全体に占める受講率ではない。 
（出所）資料 1 と同じ

一方、金融経済教育を受けた人の割合が最も高い18～29 歳では、一部で全年代と異なる傾向が
みられる（資料2 右）。まず、小学校や中学校などで受けた人は女性の方が多い。特に学校教育に
14.2
25.8
56.0
25.8
13.9 16.5
39.2
45.1
小学校、中学
校、高校、専
門学校での授
業・講義
大学での授
業・講義
勤務先の従業
員向け研修・
セミナー
上記以外の
イベント・
セミナー等
男性
女性
26.7
46.8
35.3
12.6
37.8
30.2
36.0
18.9
小学校、中学
校、高校、専
門学校での授
業・講義
大学での授
業・講義
勤務先の従業
員向け研修・
セミナー
上記以外の
イベント・
セミナー等
男性
女性
全年代 18～29歳
（％） （％）

### Page 3

3/5 
おいて、金融経済教育の機会自体に男女差が生じるとは考えづらいため、男性の方が受けたこと
が印象に残っていない、あるいは受けた内容を金融経済教育と認識していないという可能性が考
えられる。 
 また、勤務先で受けた割合は、18～29 歳では男女が同水準となる。女性の就労が進んだことが
一因だろう。反対に、大学で受けた人の割合は、全年代の傾向と同様に男性の方が高い。この背
景には、学部専攻における男女差があると考えられる。文部科学省「学校基本調査（令和7 年
度） 」によると、金融・経済に関する講義が多い商学・経済学系の学科の学生数における女性比率
は31.8％にとどまる。大学によっては、全学部生を対象に金融リテラシー向上を目的とした講座
を開講しているが、それでもなお学部専攻の男女差の影響はあるだろう。 
これらを踏まえると、女性の金融経済教育の機会を広げるうえで、大学における講座の拡充は
重要な要素の一つになる。民間の金融機関やJ-FLECと連携し、講座を提供する大学もあり、こう
した取組をさらに進めるとともに、内容に応じて学部を問わず受講できるようにすることが求め
られる。 
また、金融経済教育を受けた18～29 歳の人のうち、小学校や中学校など学校教育で受けたと回
答した割合が男性の方が低い点も、対応すべき課題である。前述の通り、受けたことが印象に残
っていない可能性もあるため、受けたという実感が残るような、身近で実践的な内容を取り入れ
ていく必要がある。もっとも、何が「身近」と感じるかは、年齢だけでなく地域や生活環境によ
っても異なる。実践的な金融経済教育を、各学校・地域がどう構築していくかは、今後の課題と
いえる。

3. 金融経済情報をみる男性、人から教わる女性 
 金融経済教育だけでなく、能動的に金融・経済情報に接する頻度にも男女差がみられる。 「金
融・経済情報をみる頻度」について、 「ほぼ毎日」と回答した男性は38.0％である一方、女性は
23.9％にとどまった（資料3） 。こうした傾向は若年層でも同様であり、18～29 歳では、「ほぼ毎
日」とする男性は21.8％、女性は12.9％にすぎない。さらに、 「まったくみない」とした人は、
男性は28.3％のところ、女性は41.3％にのぼっており、男女差は大きい。

資料 3 金融経済情報をみる頻度

（出所）資料 1 と同じ 
38.0%
23.9%
21.8%
12.9%
21.2%
18.0%
23.7%
15.1%
7.7%
8.7%
11.0%
10.9%
14.3%
22.7%
15.0%
19.8%
18.8%
26.6%
28.3%
41.3%
男性
女性
男性
女性
その他まったくみない上記より少ない頻度月に１回程度週に１回程度ほぼ毎日
全年代
18～29歳

### Page 4

4/5 
こうした頻度の差は、前稿（ 「金融リテラシー調査（2025 年）における男女の違い（金融リテラ
シー編）」）で示した金融リテラシーの差につながる懸念があるほか、金融行動のきっかけにも影
響を及ぼしている可能性がある。資産運用業協会（2026）によると、投資信託保有者・保有経験
者の投資信託への興味・関心・購入のきっかけとして最も多いのは、男性では「インターネット
で見たり調べたりして」 （34.2％）である一方、女性では「証券会社、銀行などの金融機関の人に
勧められて」 （36.8％）となる。また、 「家族や友人など身近な人に勧められて」と回答した人
も、男性（10.5％）より女性（21.5％）の方が2 倍近く多い。日本証券業協会（2026）でもこう
した傾向がみられる。NISAを始めた契機・きっかけとして最も多かったのは、男性は「SNS・イン
ターネット等でNISAに関する情報を見て」（24.0％）、女性は「家族・親戚・友人・知人（周囲の
人々）に勧められて」（19.8％）であった。 
この結果から得られる示唆は2 つある。1 つは、女性は、自ら金融経済情報に接する機会が少な
いため、身近な人の勧めが金融行動のきっかけになりやすい点だ。もう1 つは、専門家や家族・
友人など信頼できる人からの情報を重視している可能性だ。つまり、資料2 で示した、女性は男
性よりもイベント・セミナーで金融経済教育を受けた経験が多いことも踏まえると、男性はイン
ターネットなどを通じて自ら情報を得る一方、女性は人を介して情報を得ることを相対的に重視
しているとも考えられる。このように、男女によって情報チャネルの活用状況が異なっており、
金融経済情報の発信にあたっては、そうした違いを踏まえた設計が求められる。

4. おわりに～より良い資産形成に向けて～ 
 以上、本シリーズでは、金融行動や金融リテラシー、金融経済教育の経験など、資産形成を取
り巻く状況の男女差を考察してきた。その背景には、性別そのものだけでなく、経済状況や学習
機会等の違いが影響している可能性がある。また、金融経済情報に接する頻度や金融リテラシ
ー、金融経済教育を受けた経験、金融経済情報への関心などは、それぞれ独立したものではな
く、相互に関連し合っていると考えられる。例えば、金融経済情報に接する機会の少なさが金融
リテラシーの水準に影響している可能性がある一方で、金融経済教育を受ける機会や金融リテラ
シーの違いが、金融経済情報への関心や接触頻度を左右している可能性も考えられる。 
 目指すべきは、年齢や性別を問わず、誰もが金融経済教育を受ける機会を持ち、積極的に学ぼ
うとする姿勢を育める環境をつくることだ。その結果、金融リテラシーの向上やお金に対する関
心の高まりを通じて、一人ひとりにとってより良い資産形成につながることが期待される。

以 上

【参考文献】 
· 金融経済教育推進機構（J-FLEC）（2026）「金融リテラシー調査（2025 年） 」 
· 資産運用業協会(2026） 「投資信託に関するアンケート調査報告書-2025 年（令和7 年）投資信託全
般」

### Page 5

経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。
5/5
· 日本証券業協会(2026）「新NISA開始後の利用動向に関する調査(調査結果概要)」2026 年 2 月
· 文部科学省（2025）「学校基本調査（令和7 年度） 」
· 鄭美沙（2026）「金融リテラシー調査（2025 年）における男女の違い（金融リテラシー編）～正答
率が高い男性と、誤答率が低い女性～」
· 鄭美沙（2026）「金融リテラシー調査（2025 年）における男女の違い（金融行動編）～金融トラブ
ルが増加傾向の若年男性と、リスクテイクを避ける女性～」

---
## Document 785: ８月米ＣＰＩは利上げを正当化 それでも蓋を開けるまでわからない

Source PDF: all report pdf/８月米ＣＰＩは利上げを正当化　それでも蓋を開けるまでわからない.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 9 月 14 日(月)

1/4 
８月米ＣＰＩは利上げを正当化 それでも蓋を開けるまでわからない   
 経済調査部主席エコノミスト藤代宏一 
（℡：050-5474-6123）

・９月ＦＯＭＣにおける利上げを占う上で注目されていた８月米ＣＰＩは、僅かながら市場予
想よりも強い結果であった。ヘッドラインＣＰＩは前月比＋0.4％、前年比＋3.4％と市場予
想に一致。一方で、コアＣＰＩの前月比は＋0.3％（＋0.29％）と市場予想（＋0.2％）を上
回り、こちらが市場関係者の耳目を集めた。前年比は＋2.4％で市場予想に一致した。

・日経平均株価は先行き12 ヶ月72,000 円程度で推移するだろう 
・USD/JPY は先行き12 ヶ月 155 円程度で推移するだろう 
・日銀は政策金利を９月に1.25％とした後、27 年末までに2.25％とするだろう 
・FED はFF 金利を、年内は3.75％で据え置くだろう 
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 ＣＰＩ
(備考）米労働省により作成
総合
コア
（前年比、％）

### Page 2

2/4 
・８月ＣＰＩを通過してＦＦ金利先物が織り込む９月の利上げ確率は、先週後半の６～７割程
度から９割弱まで高まった。金融各社のエコノミストもＣＰＩを受けて予想を変更する動き
が相次ぎ形勢が逆転し、利上げが多数派となった。なお、コアＣＰＩの前月比伸び率が上振
れたのは携帯電話料金の急伸が主因であり、これをインフレ圧力と見做すかは議論の余地が
ある。

・８月ＣＰＩの数値を整理すると、上述のとおりヘッドラインＣＰＩは前月比＋0.4％、前年比
＋3.4％となり市場予想に一致。エネルギーは前月比＋2.0％、前年比＋16.3％へと加速した
一方、食料品は前月比＋0.1％、前年比＋2.6％と落ち着きを維持しており、この点は朗報で
あった。ヘッドラインの高止まりは、引き続き原油高・ガソリン高の影響で多くを説明でき
る。コアＣＰＩは前月比＋0.3％、前年比＋2.4％であった。瞬間風速は、前月比年率が＋
3.5％（７月：＋2.6％）、３ヶ月前比年率が＋2.0％（同＋1.6％）と反転上昇したものの、
３ヶ月前比年率・３ヶ月平均でみれば＋2.0％（同＋2.4％）と明確な減速にある。後述する
ように賃金上昇圧力が限定的な状況下、サービス部門のインフレが抑制されている。

・コアＣＰＩを財とサービスに分解すると、コア財が前月比＋0.1％、前年比＋0.7％と減速基
調にあり、コアサービスは前月比＋0.3％、前年比＋3.0％と伸びが鈍化した。コア財は新
車、中古車価格が横ばい圏で推移するなか、コンピューター・ソフトウェア・付属品が前年
比＋25.4％と高騰しており、ＡＩ需要に起因するインフレ圧力が見て取れる。コアサービス
は家賃が前月比＋0.3％と、７月の同＋0.1％から伸びが加速した一方、自動車保険は同▲
0.8％と４ヶ月連続で下落した。コア財、コアサービスともに現時点で加速の気配に乏しい。 
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 コアＣＰＩ
(備考）米労働省により作成
（％）
３ヶ月前比年率
３ヶ月前比年率
（３ヶ月平均、太線）
前月比年率

### Page 3

3/4

・家賃を除くコアサービス、いわゆるスーパーコアは前月比＋0.5％、前年比では＋3.0％へと
小幅に加速したが、これは上述したように携帯電話通信料によるところが大きく、基調判断
は難しい。とはいえ、労働市場から発生するインフレ圧力が限定的である以上、サービス価
格の基調が加速していく可能性は低いと判断される。ここで企業の価格設定行動を読む観点
からＮＦＩＢ中小企業調査に目を向けると、８月調査では３ヶ月先の販売価格計画を問う項
目が落ち着いており、やはりインフレ再加速の兆候に乏しい。

・９月ＦＯＭＣにおける利上げの可能性が高まっているのは事実であるが、筆者はウォーシュ
議長が「マラドーナ効果」を期待しているとの見方から政策金利が据え置かれる可能性があ
るとみている。マラドーナ効果とは、マラドーナが右へ左へとドリブルをするとの予想か
ら、相手チームのＤＦが左右にばらけた結果、マラドーナが正面突破に成功したことを、市
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 コアＣＰＩ
(備考)米労働省により作成
（前年比、％）
コア財
コアサービス
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 ＣＰＩ
(備考)米労働省により作成
（前年比、％）
家賃
家賃除くコアＣＰＩ
家賃除くコアサービス
（スーパーコアサービス）

### Page 4

経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。
4/4
場参加者の予想と中央銀行の行動に例えたものである。現状に当てはめると、ウォーシュ議
長が①「インフレ目標の達成は絶対に妥協しない」と示したことで、②市場参加者が近い将
来の利上げを予想し、それによって③金利が上昇したり、株価が調整したりすることで、④
金融環境が引き締まり、結果として⑤Ｆｅｄ自身が利上げを実施する必要がなくなる、とい
った具合である。現在、市場参加者の間では「Ｆｅｄにとって長期金利の上昇は厄介」であ
るとの見方が多数派であるように見受けられるが、ウォーシュ議長はそうした金融環境の引
き締まりをむしろ好感している可能性があろう。
