# Financial Report Source 18

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 020: 20260629_投資週報_通膨黏滯不利風險偏好，科技高估值引發修正

Source PDF: all report pdf/20260629_投資週報_通膨黏滯不利風險偏好，科技高估值引發修正.pdf
Report source: Yuanta (投資週報)
Date: 2026-06-29
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險，自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧，本行不負任何法律責任。本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有，非經本行同
意，不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散布。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。
金融市場投資週報                 2026 年 6 月 29 日
上週重點訊息
◼ 美國 PCE 年率仍高，Fed 升息預期維持高檔：美國 5 月 PCE 物價指數年增 4.1%，核
心 PCE 年增 3.4%，顯示能源價格與供應面壓力仍使通膨維持在偏高水準。先前Fed 6 月經濟
預測也已將 2026 年底 PCE 通膨預估由 3 月的 2.7%上修至 3.6%，核心 PCE 由 2.7%上修至
3.3%，並將年底政策利率預估中位數上修至 3.8%，使市場對年內升息的定價仍難明顯降溫。
◼ 半導體類股震盪 ， 市場檢視AI 資本支出回收期 ：6/23 費城半導體指數單日重挫 7.9%，

主要因市場開始擔憂大型雲端業者以債務支應 AI 資本支出的可持續性。雖然 Micron 財報與
展望仍顯示 AI 記憶體需求強勁，但投資人也開始思考 AI 供應鏈獲利是否集中於少數上游廠
商，導致大型科技股與半導體股上週出現賣壓。
◼ 美伊談判推進 ， 油價回落後再因衝突升溫而震盪 ：美伊 6/22 同意 60 天談判路線圖 ，
美財政部同步批准伊朗 60 天石油銷售許可，引發原油重挫。然上週末美軍再度空襲伊朗，伊
朗也進行回擊，所幸油價與市場影響尚屬可控，但後續談判料非一帆風順，仍宜留意消息面發
展。
市場展望與操作策略
◼ 升息預期雖偏高，不改 AI 股成長趨勢：近期股市雖因 Fed 升息疑慮及 AI 類股估值過高而修
正，但美光財報及蘋果商品漲價均印證 AI 產品供需緊俏且企業資本支出依然強勁。市場近
期以類股輪動方式進行修正，顯示投資人對於整體股市信心仍在。在投資策略上，短期不宜
追逐高估值個股，但可於震盪時分批布局 AI 基礎建設、半導體供應鏈及台日股市。
◼ 3~10 年美國公債/投資級債為債市首選：投資人對 Fed 升息疑慮或導致短天期債券殖利率出

現較大波動；長天期債券又有期限溢酬偏高、政府財政惡化及公債供給增加等風險。因此，建
議債券佈局可聚焦 3 至 10 年期美國公債及投等債，不僅能提供相對具吸引力的息收，若未來
通膨預期隨中東緊張情勢放緩，在資本利得方面亦可望有所表現。

---
## Document 179: AI IPOs 101_ why they’ll change the boom forever (2026-07-01)

Source PDF: all report pdf/AI IPOs 101_ why they’ll change the boom forever (2026-07-01).pdf
Report source: DB Research
Date: 2026-07-01
Pages: 16
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

AI IPOs 101: why they’ll change 
the boom forever

1 
Authors 
Adrian Cox 
Research Analyst

July 01, 2026 
Four reasons why the expected IPOs of OpenAI and Anthropic 
matter so much 
The expected wave of initial public offerings of the world’s leading AI companies 
will change the AI boom forever. 
It will bring unprecedented transparency, funding and accountability to the 
industry – as well as finally giving investors a pure-play benchmark to value the 
likely winners and losers of a revolutionary technology. 
The news at the end of last week that OpenAI is considering delaying its own 
share sale, originally expected for later this year, indicates just how much is at 
stake. The company, which lit the fuse for the AI frenzy with its launch of ChatGPT 
in November 2022, as well as its now slightly larger rival Anthropic, which makes 
Claude, confidentially filed for IPOs in early June. Those share sales would 
reportedly aim to raise about $60bn apiece and value each company at more 
than $1 trillion. 
They and their peers need to strike while the iron is hot to secure computing 
power, distribution and capital. But there is no guarantee that there will be 
enough investor appetite to absorb hundreds of billions of dollars in rapid-fire 
demand. 
The AI boom is fast approaching a moment of truth, as rapid growth and soaring 
valuations collide with ballooning capital expenditure, a public backlash and the 
challenges of real-life adoption. Challenges abound, including Chinese open-
source models that promise similar performance for a fraction of the price. 
Whoever comes out on top could define the era. 
In this report, we look at: 
▪ Why have an IPO? 
▪ Which AI-related companies are likely to have IPOs? 
▪ OpenAI and Anthropic in a nutshell 
▪ Four ways that IPOs will change the AI boom forever 
1. Greater transparency for financials – and business models 
2. More diverse funding sources – and more spending 
3. Greater accountability for their actions – and the industry 
4. New era for comparing valuations to peers – and the past

### Page 2

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Page 2 Deutsche Bank AG
Why have an IPO?
1.  Access new sources of funding  to invest, reduce debt and improve
financial flexibility.
2.  Create liquidity to give existing investors and employees a way to cash out
and enable acquisitions with publicly traded shares.
3.  Improve public credibility and profile , lending additional weight with
consumers, businesses and lawmakers.
Which AI-related companies are likely to have IPOs?

The two leading contenders to sell shares to the public this year are Anthropic, given
a 78 percent chance, according to bets on Polymarket, and OpenAI, now down to
28 percent.
Other AI-related companies that may go public include data analytics platform
Databricks, enterprise data platform Glean, and compliance tool Vanta, according
to Polymarket bets. Others include business process platform Celonis; graphic
design tool Canva; finance operations platform Ramp; defence company Anduril;

and Europe’s only notable frontier-model maker Mistral.
Figure 1: Implied probability of select AI-related IPOs by 2027
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
Anthropic OpenAI Databricks Glean Vanta Celonis Canva Ramp Anduril Mistral
Source : Polymarket, Deutsche Bank Research
OpenAI in a nutshell
n San Francisco-based OpenAI was founded in 2015 as a non-profit research
laboratory led by Co-Chairs Elon Musk and now-CEO Sam Altman , the
former head of Y-Combinator. It was backed by some of the biggest

investors in Silicon Valley, including Peter Thiel and Reid Hoffman. (Musk
severed ties with OpenAI in 2018, triggering a legal dispute that concluded
in May in OpenAI’s favour.)
n Its mission was “to ensure that artificial general intelligence – AI systems
that are generally smarter than humans – benefits all of humanity”.
n On November 30, 2022, OpenAI launched ChatGPT, a generative AI
chatbot based on its GPT-3.5 large language model, which became a

### Page 3

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 3
runaway success with 100 million users in three months. GPT-4, released in
March 2023, was so far ahead of the competition that it took a year or more
for serious challengers to gain a foothold. However, GPT-5, launched last
August, was quickly matched amid stiffer competition.
n The non-profit board voted to remove Altman as CEO in November 2023. He
was reinstated four days later, after a revolt by investors and employees.

n Its most important strategic relationship has been with Microsoft. When
OpenAI transitioned into a “capped-profit” entity in 2019, it was able to
obtain capital investment including $1bn from Microsoft, which later added
another $10bn in early 2023. Their exclusive partnership and revenue-
sharing agreements enabled Microsoft to be an early leader in AI and
secured funding and computing power for OpenAI.
n The companies scaled back their partnership in late April 2026, though

Microsoft retains a 27 percent stake in OpenAI. (OpenAI’s for-profit LLC
became a public benefit corporation controlled by the non-profit in May
2025.)
n Today, more than one in ten people on the planet use ChatGPT every
week. The name is to chatbots what PostIts are to sticky labels. It reportedly
surpassed $25bn in annualised revenue in March and has indicated to
investors that it will achieve its first annual profit in 2030.
n Although the market is increasingly crowded, OpenAI is still producing

cutting-edge models, with GPT-5.5 excelling at agentic coding. Brand new
GPT-5.6 won the same badge of honour as the latest Claude model last
Friday by being restricted to a small group of users over US government
concerns that it was so powerful that it could pose a security risk. It also has
a strong developer ecosystem building on top of its Application
Programming Interface (API).
Anthropic in a nutshell
n San Francisco-based Anthropic was founded in 2021  by seven former

employees of OpenAI, including Dario Amodei, its CEO , and his sister
Daniela Amodei, its president. Anthropic is a public benefit corporation
whose mission is “to ensure that the world safely makes the transition
through transformative AI”.
n Led by its Claude models, the company has focused heavily on the
enterprise market, positioning itself as a bastion of high standards of safety
and reliability.
n Google parent Alphabet and Amazon have invested billions of dollars in

Anthropic. Like OpenAI, it has struck complex agreements that commit it to
use chips and data centres from its investors in return, including a
commitment reported by The Information to spend about $200bn with
Google Cloud over five years.
n This has been a breakout year for Anthropic. The release of its Cowork and
Claude Code agent tools in January and February prompted a
“SaaSpocalypse” slump in stocks of software-as-a-service companies,
amid concerns that their utility-like business models could be largely

disintermediated.
n The Claude website had almost one billion visits in May , still behind
ChatGPT at 5.6 billion and Google’s Gemini at nearly three billion, but way
up from 200 million in January, according to data from Similarweb.
Meanwhile, Claude Code now accounts for slightly more than half of the
business-focused coding market.
n Anthropic’s revenue reached an annual recurring rate of $47bn in May,

### Page 4

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Page 4 Deutsche Bank AG
overtaking OpenAI. CEO Amodei said that an 80-fold increase in usage in
the first quarter on an annualised basis was “just crazy” and “too hard to
handle,” forcing it to limit access for some users and sign up new sources
of compute to keep up with demand.
n A disagreement with the US Administration came out into the open in
February when the Department of Defense announced that it was a supply-

chain risk. The company had demanded restrictions on the use of its
technology for domestic surveillance and autonomous weapons.
n Then two weeks ago, Anthropic abruptly switched off its most powerful
Fable 5 and Mythos 5 models worldwide after the US Department of
Commerce ordered it to restrict access by foreigners, due to concerns that
it could be weaponised by bad actors. It won approval to restore some
access at the end of last week.
Four ways that upcoming IPOs will change the AI boom

forever
1. Greater transparency for financials and business models
Nothing sharpens an entrepreneur’s mind – and business model – like the
prospect of an IPO.
n It is a decision that they may take with some trepidation, given the
obligation to open the doors and explain their finances, business model and
outlook in detail.
To prepare for an IPO, AI companies will have to produce public-company-grade
reporting, credible performance indicators, risk analyses and forecasts.

and corporate governance.
n Remuneration may also have to be revamped, with public metrics around
pay for performance for management and provisions for employees to vest
stock.
Greater transparency may help investors take a view on how much they consider
currently lossmaking AI models to be winner-takes-all, like Amazon or Meta, where
network effects create a virtuous circle, or commodities, where one model is
viewed as interchangeable with another.

n While OpenAI has the leading chatbot by far with around 900 million
monthly users, it has been rapidly pivoting its business model this year to
try to attract enterprise users who will pay for it.
n That includes creating the OpenAI Deployment Company in May with 19
private-equity groups led by TPG to distribute its enterprise products,
spearheaded by so-called “forward deployed engineers”. It said previously
that enterprise revenue was on track to match consumer revenue by the end

of the year.
n Since CEO Sam Altman declared a “code red” in December, OpenAI has
scrapped what it called “side quests” such as its video generating tool Sora
and is working on a “unified superapp” that brings its chatbot, coding,
browsing and agentic capabilities together, aiming to convert satisfied
home users to a similar business offering.

### Page 5

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 5
n Anthropic overtook it in business subscriptions in May, according to data
from Ramp. And Similarweb data shows monthly visits to ChatGPT fell
below a majority of the generative AI market for the first time in May,
suggesting consumers are increasingly willing to switch between models.
Figure 2: Top four generative AI platforms: monthly visits worldwide (desktop
and mobile web)
0.0K
1.0B
2.0B

3.0B
4.0B
5.0B
6.0B
7.0B
May 2023
August 2023
November 2023
February 2024
May 2024
August 2024
November 2024
February 2025
May 2025
August 2025
November 2025
February 2026
May 2026
ChatGPT Google Gemini Claude DeepSeek
Source : Similarweb, Deutsche Bank Research
n OpenAI has indicated that it is generating about $25bn to $33bn in
annualised revenue, up from a $4bn annual rate at the end of 2024. By
comparison, Anthropic’s annualised run rate shot up from $1bn a year at

and public hyperscalers rely on AI models for just a small part of their AI
revenues.
n The key questions are how intense and rapid adoption will be; is the return
on investment justified once businesses have to make hard choices to scale
beyond pilots; and will premium all-singing, all-dancing frontier models win
out over cheap, stripped-down, task-specific alternatives?
The stakes for pure-play model makers are higher now than ever before, with

pressure from above and below.
n On the one hand, the hyperscalers have unsurpassed access to data,
distribution and compute, as well as the ability to offer competing models
on their platforms and still take a cut.
n On the other hand, ever-smarter open-source models may be good enough
for most tasks. GLM 5.2, an open-source model from China’s Z.ai, has
become a viral hit in the US after rocketing up the leaderboards over the past
couple of weeks. It scores 51 in Artificial Analysis’s Intelligence Index, not

### Page 6

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Page 6 Deutsche Bank AG
far behind Claude’s (currently restricted) Fable 5 and OpenAI’s GPT-5.5, yet
costs just 48 cents per task in the index, versus $2.75 and $1.03
respectively.
Price is becoming a battleground as enterprise customers begin to balk at the
true costs of rolling AI out at scale.
n Yes, cost per token, the building block of AI, is falling by between nine and
900 times a year, depending on the task, according to Epoch AI. But that is

being offset by ever more compute-hungry agentic applications – as well as
by well-meaning initiatives to encourage employees to be creative that
have incentivised budget-busting “token-maxxing”.
n The economics of AI suddenly look less attractive once token usage is no
longer being subsidised by investors. Anthropic has changed from a flat fee
to a usage-based model, and OpenAI’s Altman said last month that cost had
come out of the blue to become a “huge issue” for customers this year. Both

are reported to be considering price cuts that could erode their profit
margins.
Figure 3: Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index of selected AI models vs cost per
tasks
$0
$1
$1
$2
$2
$3
$3
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Claude Fable 5 (with fallback)
OpenAI GPT-5.5 (xhigh)
Z.ai GLM-5.2 (max)
Google Gemini 3.1 Pro Preview
MiniMax-M3
DeepSeek V4 Pro (Max)
Meta Muse Spark
Nvidia Nemotron 3 Ultra
OpenAI gpt-oss-120b (high)
Proprietary Open-source Proprietary Open-source/open-weigh t

Intelligence (LHS: higher is better) Cost per task (RHS: weighted avg USD per Intelligence Index task)
Source : Artificial Analysis Intelligence Index. "Fallback" mechanism routes safety-flagged messages to Opus 4.8 model. Meta Muse Spark price
not available. US models in blue; Chinese models in red
n OpenRouter data showing weekly token usage of the top models on its
platform indicates that the number of tokens processed by US models has
risen fivefold this year to 20 trillion, convincingly outpaced by a thirteenfold

increase by Chinese models to 26 trillion. The platform allows customers to
access hundreds of LLMs from different providers through a single
account.

### Page 7

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 7
Figure 4: The number of tokens processed by OpenRouter using Chinese
models has overtaken tokens processed using US models this year (trillion)
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
04/01/2026 04/02/2026 04/03/2026 04/04/2026 04/05/2026 04/06/2026
China US
Source : OpenRouter, Deutsche Bank Research
n Amazon, Walmart and Cisco are among companies that have reined in
token use. Uber burned through its AI budget for the year in four months and

has now capped spending, with its Chief Operating Officer saying that “the
link is not there yet” between the use of Claude Code and customer
innovation.
n Demand is growing for new model architectures that can divert queries to
the most efficient model for any given prompt, such as OpenRouter’s new
Fusion plugin.
2. More diverse funding sources – and more spending
AI is an arms race for compute, pitting startups against established hyperscalers.

n Specialist model-makers are on the back foot compared with a company
like Alphabet parent Google that has ample cloud compute facilities and is
generating roughly $50bn in cash from operations every quarter that it can
use to buy even more.
n Private companies cannot tap the same pool of investors forever. Abundant
public market funding would break the cycle of relying on the piecemeal
multi-billion-dollar investments and complicated financing arrangements

among the leading firms of the past few months.
To be sure, this has not been a bad time to be raising private money.
n Three lean years for venture investment reversed last year as investors
injected $425bn, an increase of almost a third from the previous year, into
more than 24,000 companies, Crunchbase data show. AI funding was
particularly healthy, exceeding $225bn globally, albeit concentrated in few

### Page 8

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Page 8 Deutsche Bank AG
companies, according to CB Insights.
Figure 5: Global AI funding surged in recent quarters, albeit concentrated in
fewer companies: quarterly equity funding ($bn) and deal count
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
$0
$10
$20
$30
$40
$50
$60
$70
$80
$90
Q1
2023
Q2
2023
Q3
2023
Q4
2023
Q1
2024
Q2
2024
Q3
2024
Q4
2024
Q1
2025
Q2
2025
Q3
2025
Q4
2025
AI funding Deal number
Source : CB Insights, Deutsche Bank Research

n Anthropic said at the end of May that it raised $65bn at a post-money
valuation of $965bn, more than double its valuation in February. In one leap,
it overtook OpenAI, which raised $122bn at an $852bn post-money
valuation in March. If either achieved the mooted market value of $1trn, it
would be comfortably within the world’s top 20 most valuable companies.
But growth does not come cheap.
n OpenAI told investors in February that it was targeting some $600bn in

infrastructure investments by 2030, less than half of its earlier estimate of
$1.4tn amid concerns about whether future revenue could justify the
outlay. Its emphasis has changed from building its own data centres to just
renting them.
n OpenAI’s funding round in March was anchored by long-term partners
Amazon, Nvidia and SoftBank. Amazon will invest $50bn in OpenAI in
return for OpenAI using 2GW of its Trainium chip capacity and cooperating
on new joint products.

n Long-term shareholder and partner Microsoft still took part even though
the two have grown more distant and unwound some exclusive
arrangements in April. The startup also took investments from at least 19
institutional investors and funds, as well as some retail investors via banks
and exchange-traded funds, and expanded a revolving credit facility to
about $4.7bn.
n Meanwhile, Anthropic’s latest round looped in at least two dozen investors
and included $15bn of previously committed investments from

hyperscalers including $5bn from Amazon – after the startup agreed to buy
up to 5GW of compute capacity from it and a similar amount from Google
and Broadcom.
n In a sign of just how complicated the AI funding org chart is becoming,
Google, which already reportedly owned a 14 percent stake in Anthropic

### Page 9

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 9
worth $3bn, pledged to invest another $40bn in it in April and more recently
was said by Bloomberg to have agreed to backstop lease payments worth
$35bn on five data centres.
IPOs would not just unlock new equity finance.
n Public listings would give the companies and their backers leverage
capacity: the ability to raise debt against liquid, transparently valued
collateral. Those funds could then be recycled into further expenditure on

data centres, acquisitions and other ventures.
n A publicly funded OpenAI or Anthropic would likely not just build bigger
models but also seek to become the default foundational platform layer
similar to what Windows was for PCs and to Amazon’s AWS for the cloud.
They could use larger war chests to expand their API services, developer
tools and enterprise partnerships, commoditising the layers where rivals
(and perhaps some customers) operate.
Financial flexibility matters for all of the players in the land grab for capacity in the

AI boom.
n Capital expenditure by hyperscalers looks set to rise by two-thirds to more
than $750bn this year. Even cash-rich Google turned to the debt markets
this year, raising almost $32bn in less than 24 hours in February, then raising
$84.75bn in the biggest equity capital markets transaction ever on June 1.
Nvidia sold $25bn of high-grade bonds in mid-June.
n And smaller companies are turning to the public markets, most recently
with South Korean memory chip maker SK Hynix announcing that it is

planning to raise more than 45 trillion won, or almost $30bn, in a landmark
US listing.
An opening of the IPO floodgates after a five-year drought would give companies
the currency they need to embark on a spending spree.
n It could even break the inertia of an upstream drought in fundraising for
early investments by unblocking trapped liquidity. Global venture capital
fundraising fell last year to $122 billion, little more than a quarter of the peak

in 2021 and 2022, as investors shied away from illiquid investments in
favour of less risky strategies, PitchBook data show.

### Page 10

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Page 10 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 6: Global private-equity fundraising dropped significantly after 2022,
trapping upstream liquidity
$0
$50
$100
$150
$200
$250
$300
$350
$400
$450
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Capital raised ($bn) (RHS) Fund count (LHS)
Source : PitchBook, Deutsche Bank Research. Data as of Dec 31, 2025
n That could mean a surge in mergers and acquisitions, turning other private

companies into targets and giving an exit route to impatient investors. This
year has already seen more than 5,000 technology acquisitions or
investments pending or completed with a value of about $850bn, more than
double the level for the same period last year, Bloomberg data show.
n Elevated valuations and regulatory hurdles for the biggest companies
would put them out of reach of all but a tiny number of strategic buyers (the
hyperscalers) or sovereigns. An alternative approach has been

“acquihires”, pioneered by Microsoft two years ago when it hired most of
the staff of Inflection, including co-founder Mustafa Suleyman, and
licensed the use of its AI models for $650 million.
n But smaller companies have a much greater chance of being acquired.
n Most recently, US chipmaker Onemi agreed to buy Synaptics, which makes
semiconductors for smart devices, for about $6.2bn in stock late last week.
Indeed, Bending Spoons, which buys up struggling software companies,

including AOL and Vimeo, itself filed for an IPO last week. The Italian
company aims to raise as much as $1.6bn at a $19bn valuation early this
month.
Last but not least, IPOs will give companies a potent new weapon in the battle for
talent: liquid, publicly traded stock options.
n For top-tier researchers and engineers, this would be a far more tangible
and immediate form of wealth than illiquid shares in a private rival that
might seek to lure them away.

n Such a liquidity shock could force private competitors into responding with
ever larger funding rounds at higher valuations on the promise of “jam
tomorrow” for star employees – or into going public themselves. They
would also have to be on high alert to prevent their existing core teams from
being poached by a newly public OpenAI or Anthropic armed with a trillion-
dollar market capitalisation.
n Meta’s Mark Zuckerberg sparked a bidding war for top AI researchers last

### Page 11

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 11
year, offering compensation packages worth hundreds of millions of
dollars in some cases. OpenAI and Anthropic were the most recent players
to fish in the small pond of genuine AI experts a couple of weeks ago,
hooking two legends of the industry. Shares of Google, where they worked,
fell more than 5 percent on the day.
3. Greater accountability for their actions – and for the industry
The AI industry has lost its lustre in recent months.

n Warm initial perceptions of it as a slightly magical composer of wedding
speeches have faded and may vanish once Mom and Pop own shares in
pure-play AI companies for the first time. Those companies risk becoming
a lightning rod for broader fears about the impact of AI on trust, jobs and
vulnerable industries.
At the most basic level, public companies are held to higher standards around
consistency and accountability.
n For example, OpenAI has attracted criticism for reversing its earlier

opposition to advertising in an attempt to create a more sustainable
business model. Critics have said conversations could be biased by sales
imperatives.
Beyond that, OpenAI and Anthropic have already had a taste of the political
challenges in store as public companies.
n Anthropic was blacklisted by the US Department of Defense in February for
refusing to let Claude be used for autonomous weapons and mass
surveillance. The dispute cost Anthropic a $200m contract and is now in the

courts. OpenAI was then criticised from the other side after it struck a deal
to replace Anthropic. Altman later described the move as being “complex
but the right decision with extremely difficult brand consequences and very
negative PR for us in the short term”.
n More recently, the US Department of Commerce issued an export control
directive late on June 12 to suspend all access by foreign nationals to
Anthropic’s Claude Mythos 5 and less powerful Fable 5 models because of

security concerns.
n Although it had to temporarily disable access to all customers to ensure
compliance, its reputation for having the most powerful models will have
benefitted (see our report AI twist in the tale for Anthropic’s Fable and
Mythos). The silver lining may eventually eclipse the cloud amid a branding
boost that money can’t buy. However, alternatives to US models are also
likely to benefit from concerns that access could be switched off without

warning.
Most broadly, the makers of the best-known chatbots may pay a price for being
seen as proxies for all of AI when controversy hits the industry.
n Hot topics include cybersecurity. The leaders of the Five Eyes cybersecurity
agencies of the US, UK, Australia, Canada and New Zealand warned in a
joint statement last week that frontier models are likely to supercharge
cyber threats: “The timeline is not years, it is months”.
The biggest underlying popular concern is what AI will mean for jobs.

n The leaders of both Anthropic and OpenAI have moderated their

### Page 12

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Page 12 Deutsche Bank AG
predictions of severe disruption in recent weeks, with Amodei pivoting to
say automation would dramatically increase productivity and Altman
saying the impact on jobs has been less than he expected.
n One challenge is that AI has become a scapegoat for job cuts at companies
ranging from Block (4,000 employees, or nearly half the workforce) to
Atlassian (10 percent of roles) and even British American Tobacco (with AI

cited as one of a number of factors in a planned one-fifth reduction in its
workforce).
n However, the tide has begun to turn on predictions of catastrophic job
losses. A slump in entry-level graduate jobs may have been more due to
rising interest rates and remote work than AI – and may be reversing. And
business leaders like Amazon Web Services' CEO Matt Garman have said
eliminating the pipeline of talent makes no sense.
Nowhere has the AI backlash become more focused than over data centres.

n As fast as these “AI factories” are mushrooming around the US and the
world, so are concerns – both justified and unjustified – about them
overwhelming the electricity grid, forcing up power prices, and sucking
rivers dry for water to cool their chips.
n How the leading model makers, hyperscalers and infrastructure
companies handle the issue could determine whether it remains contained
or unleashes moratoriums, regulation or swingeing taxes that put the entire

boom at risk.
n In the US, home to half of the world’s data centres, opposition to “AI
factories” is becoming a rare area of bipartisan consensus, uniting
prominent Democratic Representative Alexandria Ocasio-Cortez and
independent Senator Bernie Sanders on the left, and populist strategist
Steve Bannon on the right.
n Maine recently passed a moratorium on larger data centres while, across
the Atlantic, data-centre hub Ireland has introduced a “Bring Your Own

Power” policy that requires new facilities to generate their own electricity
or secure renewable energy contracts.
Data centers are – literally – close to home for voters.
n That makes them ripe fodder for targeted lobbying and grassroots
campaigns in a way that vague fears about long-term job losses are not. The
US midterm elections in November will be an important litmus test of the
political consequences of local pressure.
n A Gallup poll in May found that 71 percent of Americans would oppose a

data centre being built in their area. At least 75 projects worth a record
$130bn were blocked or delayed in the first quarter, according to Data
Center Watch.
n Tech companies have done their bit to respond. Microsoft, for example,
said in its most recent data centre announcement last week that it would
create thousands of jobs at the facility in Pecos, Texas; pay to ensure it does
not cause a rise in electricity prices; and replenish more water than it uses.

“We are approaching this project as a new neighbour,” it said.
The IPOs of the biggest AI companies could also have repercussions in the
geopolitical contest for technological supremacy, raising their status to that of
strategic national assets.

### Page 13

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 13
n That could encourage other powers to accelerate support for their own
national champions, like China’s “AI tigers” and France’s Mistral, to avoid
becoming dependent on US-controlled foundation models. Other
countries may find themselves having to choose to align with one centre of
power or the other.
4. New era for comparing valuations to peers – and the past
Part of the anxiety about an AI bubble is the lack of pure-play, public, investable

companies to act as a benchmark. A listed OpenAI or Anthropic would fill a huge
gap.
n Sentiment about AI has driven much of the market since the launch of
ChatGPT, with anticipated gains from investment and productivity helping
to explain the two-thirds rise in the S&P 500 Index during that period.
n That rise has been bumpy, soaring and swooning from week to week, as
one area after another, such as software, semiconductors or infrastructure
companies, has come into favour and then fallen out again. Investors have

crowded into trades on a concentrated and shifting list of potential AI
enablers and adopters, and away from prospective casualties.
n To give one example, the Magnificent Seven biggest technology stocks
have whipsawed over the past month amid concerns about how much of
their AI capital expenditure will pay off, shedding as much as 12 percent by
late last week. They have tripled over the past three-and-a-half years to
account for almost a third of the S&P 500.

Figure 7: S&P 500 Index, Magnificent Seven tech stocks and other select AI-
related sectors performance YTD to June 30 (indexed to 100)
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
31/12/2025 31/01/2026 28/02/2026 31/03/2026 30/04/2026 31/05/2026 30/06/2026
Semi and semi equipment Energy Tech hardware
Software and s/w services S&P 500 Index Mag-7 tech
Source : Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank Research
n That makes investing in AI right now feel a bit like going to a horse race and

having to bet on the jockeys and the condition of the track because the
horses themselves are unavailable.
Of course, there is no guarantee that any filing ends up in a successful IPO.
n The San Francisco-based co-working company WeWork was valued at

### Page 14

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Page 14 Deutsche Bank AG
$47bn in early 2019 but failed to gain traction when it filed its prospectus in
August that year. It eventually went public in 2021 at a heavily reduced
valuation and ended up filing for bankruptcy in late 2023.
Another way that major IPOs could remove some distortions is by acting as a
release valve for private markets, enabling long-awaited exits from investors.
n Private-equity companies are sitting on a record backlog of unsold

companies, thanks in part to geopolitical disruption and fears of a
“SaaSpocalypse”, according to data from Pitchbook and others. The
median age of still-held assets continued to trend upwards from three years
in 2022 to four years in 2025 as exit activity stalled.
Despite concerns that the boom turns to bust, there are differences in the IPO
markets from the height of the dot-com bubble.
n Overall valuations are clearly elevated by historical standards, with the

Shiller Cyclically Adjusted Price-Earnings (CAPE) ratio for the S&P 500
recently surpassing 40, nearing the record 44 it reached at the peak of the
dot-com bubble.
n However, the IPOs coming to market are more mature and more profitable.
n Back in 1999 to 2000, the median age of venture-capital-backed tech
startups going public shrank to about 4.5 years, according to University of
Florida data. Since then, the median age has been relatively stable at ten-

and-a-half years and was 12 years last year.
n Only 6 percent of those tech startups going public at the height of the dot-
com bubble were profitable, compared with 22 percent since 2010, and
they had a median opening price-to-sales ratio of over 40, four times higher
than the average since 2010.
Figure 8: Median age and profitability of technology IPOs (1980-2025)
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025

% profitable (RHS) Median age (LHS)
Source : University of Florida, Jay Ritter, Deutsche Bank Research
Perhaps the greatest insurance against a bubble is the fixation of today’s senior
investment managers on the dot-com bust that scarred them in their formative
years in the market.

### Page 15

1 July 2026
Thematic Research
Deutsche Bank AG Page 15
n For them, mega IPOs bring back memories of the IPO of Netscape in August
1995, widely regarded as the start of the dot-com bubble.However, there is
just as important a lesson in how long it took for that bubble to go bad
despite prophesies of doom and gloom right from day one.
n Bloomberg published an article two days after the IPO on August 9, 1995,
entitled “Why investors say Netscape shows a market poised for a fall” and

warns “Be worried, very worried”. “Netscape was a little insane,” says a
trader quoted in the article, after the stock doubled on its first day of trading,
giving the lossmaking company a $2.9bn market value. “It certainly hints at
more frothiness in the market and that’s usually the sign of the beginning
of the end of a bull market”.
n Yet in the end, the Nasdaq shot up from 1,005 on the day of Netscape’s IPO,
not peaking until almost five years later, at over 5,000 on March 10, 2000.

It was only then that it dramatically fell back, reaching a trough of about
1,100 in October 2002.
n As for Netscape, it was bought by America Online (AOL) for $10bn in 1999,
and then vanished in the fallout from AOL’s record-breaking $124bn
purchase of Time Warner in 2001.
Yet Amazon, another star of the times, shows the power of patience – and picking
a winner.
n Adjusting for stock splits, the shares debuted at 7.5 cents in the company's
$54m IPO on May 15, 1997. After the roller coaster of the dot-com bubble

and crash, the shares took a decade to recapture their early peak – and then
continued to rise, reaching almost $275 a month ago.
n Yet on the day of its IPO, when the stock rose 31 percent, a Pennsylvania-
based fund manager told Bloomberg: “I personally am going to stay away
from it. I don't think it's been proven that one can make a lot of money over
the web.”
Recent relevant research
Assessing AI in finance with Evident Co-CEO Alexandra Mousavizadeh  (June 9,

2026)
ChatIPO: Quick take on OpenAI’s record-breaking IPO plans (May 21, 2026)
Will Claude’s AI finance agents change your life? (May 6, 2026)
AI, Iran and the Gulf 101 (April 13, 2026)
What AI says about AI eating itself and the world… (Feb 16, 2026)
AI Q&A: Why have market vibes suddenly shifted on AI? (Feb 16, 2026)
Three AI themes for 2026: the honeymoon is over (Jan 20, 2026)

### Page 16

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
AI IPOs 101: why they’ll change the boom forever – July 01, 2026

16

---
## Document 193: AI･半導体は韓国経済の救世主となるか ～成長のエンジンだが､｢K字型経済｣の元凶にも､持続可能な成長につなげられるか～

Source PDF: all report pdf/AI･半導体は韓国経済の救世主となるか ～成長のエンジンだが､｢K字型経済｣の元凶にも､持続可能な成長につなげられるか～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-07-01
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Asia Trends

2026 年 7 月 1 日

1/2 
AI･半導体は韓国経済の救世主となるか 
～成長のエンジンだが､｢K 字型経済｣の元凶にも､持続可能な成長につなげられるか～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（要旨） 
○ 韓国の主要株価指数（KOSPI）はＡＩ・半導体関連株を中心に活況を呈している。 一方、個人
投資家の海外資産投資拡大がウォン安圧力を強めており、株高・通貨安という対照的な動き
が生じている。 当局はＮＤＦ取引監視強化でウォン安阻止を図るが、 こうした対応がMSCI に
よる「新興国」区分据え置きの一因となっている。景気・物価・ウォン安対策への不満から
李在明政権の支持率は急落している。 
○ 世界的なＡＩ・半導体投資の活発化は同国経済の追い風となり、６月の輸出額は過去最大と
なり、なかでも半導体輸出は前年比で約３倍に拡大した。政府は、サムスン電子とＳＫハイ
ニックスによる南西部への計800 兆ウォン規模の投資を柱とするＡＩ・半導体新産業戦略を
発表した。同地域指定には首都圏一極集中是正という政権公約も影響しているが、与党地盤
への「我田引水」との批判や、電力・水・物流・労働力等の供給制約への懸念もある。 
○ 韓国経済はＡＩ・半導体関連とそれ以外で明暗が分かれる「Ｋ字型」の様相を強めており、
KOSPI 時価総額の約５割をサムスン電子・ＳＫハイニックス２社が占めるため、株価変動が
大きく、サーキットブレーカー発動も頻発している。ＡＩ・半導体が成長エンジンである一
方、その恩恵を内需拡大へ波及させられるかが政権の課題となっている。

韓 国 金 融 市 場で は 、 主 要 株 価 指 数
（KOSPI） が一時最高値を更新するなど活
況を呈している。世界的なＡＩ（人工知
能） ・ 半導体関連投資の活発な動きを追い
風に、時価総額上位の半導体関連株の上
昇が相場をけん引している。 同国ではこ
こ数年、株式市場改革が進められてきた
ことも株価上昇を後押ししている。 
若年層を中心とする個人投資家は外国
株など海外資産への投資を拡大 させてお
図 1 ウォン相場(対ドル)と主要株価指数の推移

（出所）LSEG より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 2

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
2/2 
り、 ウォン安圧力を強める一因となるなど、 株価と通貨が対照的な動きをみせている（図１）。 当局
はウォン安阻止に向けて、ＮＤＦ（ノン・デリバラブル・フォワード）取引の監視を強化する方針
を明らかにした。こうした当局の対応は、指数算出会社であるMSCIが同国の市場区分を「新興国」
に据え置く一因となっている。直近の世論調査では、 景気動向や物価対策、 ウォン安対策の不満が、
李在明 （イ ・ ジェミョン） 政権への支持率が急落する要因となるなど、政権は苦境に直面している。 
しかし、金融市場の活況をもたらして
いる世界的なＡＩ・半導体関連投資の旺
盛な動きは、同国経済にとって追い風と
なっていることは明らかである。６月の
輸出額は前年同月比＋70.9％と 1978 年
10 月以来の高い伸びとなるなど急拡大
し、単月ベースの輸出額も過去最高を更
新した（図２）。 半導体の輸出額は前年比
で約３倍となるなど、足元の輸出急拡大
の動きをけん引している。 
李大統領は６月29 日、ＡＩと半導体を
軸とする新産業戦略を発表した。 具体的には、この分野を主導するサムスン電子とＳＫハイニック
スが同国南西部に計800 兆ウォン規模を投資し、各々２ヵ所の半導体製造拠点を新設することを明
らかにした。また、政府も 2029 年までにＡＩデータセンター向けに 550 兆ウォンを投資するとと
もに、2035 年までに計1,000 兆ウォン超の投資を目指す方針を示している。 
李政権が同国南西部をＡＩ・半導体のクラスターに指定した背景には、 韓国経済が首都ソウルへ
の一極集中が進むなか、 政権公約に地域格差の是正による経済の活性化を目指したことも影響して
いる。足元では、半導体関連産業はソウル近郊に集積しており、これが分散されることは関連イン
フラのボトルネックの緩和につながるとの見方もある。 一方で、 クラスターの拠点とされる光州市
や全羅南道は与党・共に民主党が一貫して地盤としてきたため、計画そのものが「我田引水」であ
るとの批判もある。さらに、半導体クラスターの建設には膨大な電力と水、高度な物流、充実した
サプライヤー網、 高度で熟練した労働力が必要であり、 これらの供給が需要に見合う形で拡大しな
い可能性もある。とはいえ、世界的にＡＩ・半導体に対する投資が活発化するなか、その供給拡大
に向けた先行投資に舵を切る意義は小さくない。 
その一方、足元の韓国経済はＡＩ・半導体関連とそれ以外との差が歴然とする「Ｋ字型」の様相
を強めており、 輸出にもそうした動きがみられる。 こうした事情は、KOSPIの構成銘柄すべての時価
総額に対して、 サムスン電子とＳＫハイニックスの２社の時価総額が約５割を占めていることにも
現れている。 その結果、 ２社の株価の動きにKOSPIが大きく左右され、 過去数ヵ月にわたって度々サ
ーキットブレーカーが発動する事態に発展している。ＡＩ・半導体関連は、引き続き韓国経済の成
長の主要エンジンとなることが期待される一方、その恩恵が、個人消費をはじめとする内需の持続
的な拡大へと波及するかどうか、 政権の舵取りは重要さを増している。         以 上 
図 2 輸出額(季節調整値)の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成, 季節調整値は当社試算

---
## Document 199: Australia and NZ Weekly 29 June 2026 (2026-06-29)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Australia and NZ Weekly 29 June 2026 (2026-06-29).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-06-29
Pages: 14
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIA &
NEW ZEALAND
WEEKLY
Week beginning 29 June 2026
In this week’s edition:
Economic Insight: Between a rock and a hard place.
The Week That Was: Patience is a virtue.
Focus on New Zealand: RBNZ to scale back OCR hikes as energy prices recede.

For the week ahead:
Australia: RBA minutes, private sector credit, home value index, goods trade balance, dwelling approvals.
New Zealand: Monthly employment indicator, business confidence, consumer confidence, building permits.
Japan: Jobless rate, Q2 Tankan large manufacturers index, industrial production.
China: NBS PMIs.
Euro Area: CPI, unemployment rate, economic confidence, consumer confidence.
United Kingdom: Q1 GDP (final estimate).
United States: Unemployment rate, nonfarm payrolls, average hourly earnings, ADP employment change.

Global: S&P Global manufacturing PMIs.
Analysis and forecasts for this week’s key releases.
Information contained in this report current as at 26 June 2026.

### Page 2

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
ECONOMIC INSIGHT
• The detailed June quarter CPI release on July 29 will be
the most important domestic update ahead of the RBA
Monetary Policy Board’s August meeting.
• This week’s monthly releases on inflation and the labour
force were clearly of interest as well but would probably

not have shifted the RBA’s views.
• Concerns about a more prolonged period of high inflation
are expected to dominate the Board's thinking. It’s
assessment of risks will be key but are likely to lean in
favour of a further 25bp hike in August.
The RBA’s ‘hawkish hold’ in June included a clear warning that
inflation was too high and that it was prepared to raise interest
rates further if required. If a further move is required, it is most
likely to involve a hike at the Monetary Policy Board’s next

meeting on August 9–10, a little over seven weeks away. As
always – and paraphrasing the Board’s June decision statement
– its judgement will rest on the evolving assessment of the
outlook and risks, informed by developments in the global
economy and financial markets and by trends in domestic
demand and the outlook for inflation and the labour market.
Information-wise, the detailed June quarter CPI release on July
29 will be the most important update. However, this week’s

monthly releases on inflation and the labour force were clearly
of interest as well. These did contain some surprises but not
ones big enough to really shift the RBA’s views.
Underlying inflation still uncomfortably high
As set out in our regular Cliff Notes  recap on p3, headline
inflation surprised to the downside in May, dropping back to
4%yr, but with the all-important Trimmed Mean measure of
underlying inflation lifting from 3.4%yr to 3.6%yr.

On balance, we think the detail would have underscored the
RBA’s concerns about the pass-through of higher energy costs,
particularly in the dwelling construction space, noting that
the high weight of housing in the CPI means this often sets
the pace for underlying inflation. The full June quarter update
will be important here given the reversal lower in fuel prices
since April and a clearer weakening now showing through in
housing markets more generally (see our latest Housing Pulse,

released at the start of this week, for more details).
There was some evidence of pass-through effects in other CPI
items as well while some significant direct effects may not
have shown through yet. Specifically, the ‘holiday travel and
accommodation’ component, which was a notable downside
Between a rock and a hard place
Matthew Hassan
Head of Australian Macro-Forecasting,
Westpac Group
surprise in May, includes air travel costs that get captured

with a one-to-two-month lag (reflecting the typical timing
difference between booking and travel). As such, the sharp re-
pricing due to spiking jet fuel costs in April-May will likely only
start to appear in the CPI from June (noting that this may only
affect the headline measure with no impact on the Trimmed
Mean).
Overall, inflation is likely to still be uncomfortably high for the
RBA going into its August meeting and there will be ongoing
concerns that high inflation is becoming embedded in domestic

wage and price setting behaviour.
Labour force softening slowly , growth sluggish
The May labour force update would not have been a game-
changer for the RBA either. Employment bounced-back as
expected but from a slightly bigger, downwardly revised,
decline in April. While the underlying pace of growth is a
touch softer, the tick-down in the unemployment rate from
4.5% to 4.4% was as expected. That is a touch higher than
the RBA’s May forecasts, which had 4.2% pencilled in for

the June quarter average, but the difference mainly comes
down to the RBA's more pessimistic assessment of labour
participation rates rather than a significantly different picture
on employment growth.
There is likely to be more softness to come as the full impact
from higher interest rates and the Middle East conflict works
through but for now the labour market is broadly unfolding in
line with expectations.
The wider pool of high frequency data continues to point

to weak growth through the middle of the year. Our first
Westpac-Now estimate for Q2 GDP points to growth of
around 0.2%qtr in line with the sluggish 0.3%qtr outcome
in Q1 2026. The signals suggest there is about a one-in-four
chance that the economy could jag a negative result in the
quarter, but month to month, there are tentative signs that
growth is stabilising at this pace rather than weakening further
(see here for more detail). Again, this is likely a touch weaker

than implied by the RBA’s current forecasts.
“... inflation is likely to still be
uncomfortably high for the RBA going
into its August meeting ..."

### Page 3

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Inflation rather than growth is the Board’s dominant concern
at the moment. As such, it would take a substantially weaker
than read on this front to influence its decisions. The extent
of any additional slowing is of interest but slow growth on its

own will be seen as an unavoidable cost of ensuring inflation
makes a sustained return to the 2-3% target over a reasonable
time-frame.
Judging the risks
All up, we expect the RBA will view this week’s domestic data
flow as broadly in line with its forecasts. As always, it should
be remembered that the Bank's base case forecasts, set down
in May, were conditioned on an assumed path for the cash
rate that had an additional increase (worth about one and a

half 25bp hikes). As such, outcomes that are ‘as expected’
tend to endorse some further tightening. Or, to put it another
way, the data needs to provide evidence that the economy is
undershooting baseline forecasts for inflation and growth,
for this alone to be the basis for the Board to leave rates
unchanged.
The May updates do not seem to meet these criteria. The June
round of data may do so but at this stage we still see the risks
stacked towards an uncomfortably high CPI update and an

August interest rate hike.
The Board’s judgement of risks may prove to be just as critical
as the data flow. Here the question will be whether the
better-than-expected improvements in the Middle East and in
global energy markets are likely to be sustained and enough to
ensure a domestic disinflation without the need for additional
interest rate tightening. On balance, we expect oil and gas
supply normalisation to be a slow and bumpy process and
that concerns about a more prolonged period of high domestic

inflation will carry the August decision. With growth already
sluggish, that decision will be a difficult one for the Board. This
week’s updates have not made its deliberations any easier.

### Page 4

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
THE WEEK THAT WAS
Cliff Notes: patience is a virtue
0.3% after a flat April print. PCE inflation was a touch softer 
than expected in May at 0.4%, while core inflation was in 
line at 0.3%. Q2 is therefore looking like another soft period 
for the US consumer. Notable too is that revisions have been 
against the consumer, the third estimate of Q1 GDP this week 
seeing quarterly consumption growth revised down to just 
0.5% annualised. An upgrade to business investment and a 
material reduction in import growth in the quarter more than 
offset for GDP; but being more than 70% of the economy, the 
weakness in consumption will have a significant bearing on the 
aggregate pulse hence.

In our view, this data and events in energy markets warrant 
the FOMC remaining on hold for the remainder of the year as 
inflation risks slowly abate. However, the market is likely to 
continue to price the risk of further tightening, particularly 
while the White House remains out of the monetary policy 
debate and AI optimism persists.
Australian consumer prices fell 0.7% in May, bringing the 
annual rate of headline inflation down from 4.2%yr to 4.0%yr. 
The main cause of the decline was an 11.9% fall in auto fuel 
prices; but, relative to our own forecast, it was holiday travel 
and accommodation that was the primary contributor.
Stripping out these factors, trimmed mean inflation lifted 
from 3.4%yr to 3.6%yr. Housing inflation was, once again, 
key with rents surprising to the upside and new dwelling 
costs recording their strongest monthly increase since late-
2022. The latter contrasts with growing evidence of cooling 
demand in the housing market, pointing to margin pressure 
for homebuilders. Cost pass-through was also evident in the 
detail, though weak household spending  may stop businesses 
from recouping costs through mid-year and beyond. The 
abrupt reversal in energy supply and prices through June (see 
below) may also see businesses write off margin compression 
as a transient concern. 
Employment subsequently bounced back from holiday-
related weakness in April as expected, jobs up +40.3k and the 
unemployment rate ticking down to 4.4%. That said, revisions 
to April offset May’s gain, stalling growth in Q2-to-date after 
a robust Q1. Looking past the month-to-month volatility, the 
unemployment rate trend is starting to edge up, in line with 
our expectation for a sustained softening.
Offshore, the past week saw the Memorandum of 
Understanding between the US and Iran take effect and a 
consequent rapid opening up of the Strait of Hormuz, freeing 
circa 20 million barrels of oil from the Strait in recent days. 
For the most part, the price of oil has trended down, reaching 
USD72 mid-week, a level last seen before the conflict began 
in February. It has not been all smooth sailing, however, an 
attack on a commercial ship off the coast of Oman overnight 
sparking concern and an increase in the oil price back above 
USD75. Several points still require detailed negotiation, 
including Iran’s nuclear program and the management of the 
Strait beyond the first 60 days. Discussion on a framework to 
resolve differences on these matters began at the weekend 
in Switzerland, and are likely to continue for weeks, if not 
months. Risks for energy supply and price will therefore linger 
for the foreseeable future.
On the data front, US personal income surprised to the 
upside in May, rising 0.7% after being unchanged in April. 
Compensation growth was more modest at 0.4%, consistent 
with the average since the beginning of the year. Personal 
spending growth also accelerated to 0.7%, although much 
of the gain was driven by inflation, with real spending up just 
Elliot Clarke, Head of International Economics
Ryan Wells, Economist
Illiana Jain, Economist
“...the unemployment rate trend is 
starting to edge up, in line with our 
expectation for a sustained softening."

### Page 5

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
5
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOCUS ON NEW ZEALAND
RBNZ to scale back OCR hikes as energy prices recede
A great deal has changed since early May, when we last
reviewed our forecasts for both the global and domestic
economies – more than financial markets appear to have
fully appreciated, judging by the continued pricing of an

RBNZ rate hike at next month’s policy review. At the centre
of these developments has been the unexpectedly rapid
progress in reducing Middle East tensions. In particular, the
prospect of a faster-than-expected restoration of shipping
flows through the Strait of Hormuz has materially altered
the outlook for global trade. This has implications not only
for oil, petrochemical products and natural gas, but also for
a broader set of inputs such as fertiliser – goods that play

a crucial role in global economic activity and, by extension,
New Zealand’s macroeconomic environment.
While it is still too early to conclude that geopolitical tensions
in the region have been durably resolved, there is now
sufficient evidence to suggest that diplomatic efforts are
gaining traction. A sustained ceasefire and a return to more
normal shipping conditions appear increasingly plausible.
Against that backdrop, it is appropriate to incorporate this new

information into our macroeconomic assessment.
The most important revisions to our assumptions relate to the
level and expected path of oil and refined fuel prices. These
prices have pulled back much more rapidly than anticipated,
reaching levels that we previously did not expect until the
middle of 2027. Brent crude oil is currently trading at around
US$73 per barrel, broadly in line with pre-conflict levels. We
now expect prices to ease further, reaching around US$69

per barrel over the course of 2027. Refined fuel prices have
followed a similar, though more gradual, downward trajectory.
After peaking at around US$195 per barrel in March, they
have fallen to approximately US$110, compared with roughly
US$92 prior to the conflict. We anticipate further declines,
with prices easing to around US$102 per barrel by the end of
this year and to US$90 by the end of 2027.
Crucially, current oil and fuel price levels are now materially

below those assumed by the RBNZ in its May forecasts. This
divergence has important implications for the inflation outlook,
the pace of economic recovery, and the stance of monetary policy.
Alongside these developments, our updated forecasts also
take into account recent domestic economic data, including
the latest data on GDP, selected price indices, and a range
of high-frequency indicators of activity. We have not, at this
stage, updated our global growth forecasts or exchange

rate projections aside from incorporating the latest starting
point for the New Zealand dollar, as these will be reviewed
more comprehensively in the upcoming July Market Outlook.
Similarly, we have not yet incorporated the implications of the
fiscal position set out in Budget 2026. However, we expect
those effects to be modest and will integrate them fully in our
next quarterly Economic Overview.
Turning to growth, the faster-than-expected easing in energy

prices has led us to upgrade our GDP forecasts, particularly for
the June quarter and the second half of this year. Much of this
reflects a bringing forward of the recovery that had previously
been delayed by the oil shock. As a result, while growth in
2026 is now expected to be stronger, there is a corresponding
moderation in the growth profile for 2027.
We now forecast GDP growth of 2.0% for 2026 and 2.9% for
2027. This compares with a previous forecast of around 1.5%

growth for 2026. Nonetheless, it is worth noting that this
remains well below the 3.3% growth we had anticipated prior
to the outbreak of the Iran conflict, underscoring the lasting
effect that the shock has had on economic momentum.
Recent data suggest that the economy has held up better than
expected during the peak of the oil price shock in April and
May. We now expect GDP to decline by just 0.1% in the June
quarter, rather than the 0.3% contraction previously forecast.

This estimate incorporates ongoing seasonal distortions in the
data; on an underlying basis, we judge that the economy has
continued to expand modestly, with growth of around 0.2%,
partially offset by seasonal factors.
Looking ahead, as oil prices continue to recede, we expect
the economy to return to a more typical recovery trajectory.
Quarterly growth is forecast to rise to around 0.6% in the
September quarter and 0.7% in the December quarter. This

would result in a solid, albeit incomplete, recovery over the
remainder of the year.
In the labour market, the improved growth outlook translates
into a slightly more favourable trajectory for unemployment.
While some near-term softness remains likely (reflecting
the uncertainty that has weighed on hiring decisions), we are
now less concerned about a sustained deterioration in labour
market conditions. High-frequency indicators point to broadly
flat employment in the June quarter. However, this is unlikely

to absorb ongoing population growth, suggesting that the
unemployment rate could edge higher in the near term, rising
to around 5.4% after easing to 5.3% in the March quarter. We
expect a gradual improvement beyond that time (previously
we expected unemployment to rise further to a peak of 5.6%),
dropping below 5% by late 2027.
New Zealand Economics team

### Page 6

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
The housing market, meanwhile, continues to show limited
momentum. House prices have remained flat in recent months,
with softness in related indicators such as days to sell.
Nevertheless, there are signs that conditions may begin to
improve modestly. The combination of lower energy costs and

reduced expectations of near-term OCR hikes has contributed
to an easing in mortgage rates, which in turn should support
sentiment.
We’ve revised up our forecast for house prices in 2026, and
now expect a small increase of around 0.6%yr (in contrast to
our earlier forecast for a modest decline). In 2027, we continue
to expect growth of around 2%yr. Regional markets are still
likely to outperform the major North Island urban centres,
with the strength in commodity exports underpinning firmer

economic conditions and labour markets in regions with strong
rural backbones, like Canterbury.
Inflation dynamics have also shifted materially. The faster-
than-expected decline in oil prices has led us to lower our
inflation forecasts. We now expect annual inflation to peak
at around 4.0% in the June quarter (down from our previous
estimate of 4.5%), before easing to around 3.5% by the end of
the year. This is notably below the RBNZ’s May projection of

4.1% for year-end inflation.
Lower fuel costs have already been reflected in retail prices.
Petrol and diesel prices have fallen significantly from their
peaks, directly subtracting around 0.5 percentage points from
our inflation forecast. In addition, we now expect that the
pass-through of high fuel costs to other prices will be more
moderate, reflecting both the smaller magnitude and shorter
duration of the cost shock.
Looking further ahead, inflation is expected to decline

through 2027 as the effects of the oil shock fade. Indeed, base
effects may temporarily push headline inflation below 2%
at some point, before a gradual pickup as economic activity
strengthens. Core inflation measures, however, remain
relatively firm, reflecting underlying pressures that have
persisted despite weak demand in recent years.
These developments have important implications for monetary
policy. The improved inflation outlook reduces the urgency

for the RBNZ to raise the Official Cash Rate and will likely
reduce the need for at least one of the rate hikes that had been
factored into the RBNZ’s May projections. That would leave a
baseline outlook of one to two rate increases over the course
of the year. This would represent a meaningful recalibration,
albeit not a complete reversal to pre-conflict assumptions,
given that inflation remains elevated in the near term.
For the upcoming 8 July policy meeting, we continue to expect

that the OCR will be left on hold. The sharp decline in energy
prices and the associated improvement in the inflation outlook
have significantly weakened the argument for pre-emptive
tightening. While some members of the Monetary Policy
Committee may still favour rate increases later in the year,
there appears to be little pressure to act immediately.
Moreover, additional key data covering inflation, the labour
market, and business conditions will be released between the

July and September meetings. Waiting for this information
seems prudent, particularly given ongoing uncertainty around
geopolitical developments and the durability of the recent
improvement in oil prices.
We continue to expect that the RBNZ will leave the OCR
on hold at 2.25% in July. This decision is likely to be less
contentious than the previous meeting and could potentially
be reached by consensus.
We expect the RBNZ will begin lifting the OCR at the

September MPS meeting and move again once more towards
neutral settings before the end of the year – most probably at
the December MPS meeting.
But even these forecasts are not a slam dunk and have two-
sided risks. Should the June quarter CPI reveal benign core
inflation, then the RBNZ could leave the OCR unchanged until
December. In contrast, if the CPI runs hot, then we could still
see the three 25bp rate hikes that we previously anticipated.
Our central view implies one less rate hike this year than we

had forecast most recently. However, the elevated path for
inflation means that increases in the OCR are still expected.
We have retained the same OCR changes that we had
previously forecast to occur in 2027. But with one less hike
now expected in 2026, the OCR is now forecast to peak at
4.0% – 25bps lower than we previously anticipated. A lower
peak OCR is consistent with the smaller and shorter duration
oil-related supply shock now assumed. Our view on the

neutral OCR remains at 3.75%.

### Page 7

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUS: May Private Sector Credit (%mth)
Jun 30, Last: 0.7, Westpac f/c: 0.6
Mkt f/c: 0.6, Range: 0.5 to 0.7
Despite the weaker economic outlook and higher interest rates,
the latest private sector credit figures showed no signs of
softening in April, with growth holding steady at 0.7%mth. All

major categories maintained solid momentum, with investor
housing credit leading the way, up 0.9%mth, and business
credit growth close behind at 0.7%mth.
We expect May to bring the first signs of slowing. Following
the RBA’s first cash rate hike in early February, enough time
has likely passed for the impact of higher interest rates to begin
flowing through. The drag from increased economic uncertainty
amid the war in the Middle East should also begin to play a

role. We expect growth to slow to 0.6%mth but would not
rule out a 0.5%mth increase. Please note that the data may be
delayed – last month, it was released three working days later.
AUS: Jun Cotality Home Value Index (%mth)
Jul 1, Last: –0.1, Westpac f/c: –0.5
The Cotality home value index dipped –0.1% in May with
revisions showing price growth stalled flat over the three
months to May led by a deepening price correction in Sydney
and Melbourne and more pronounced slowdowns in other

capital cities.
June will reveal a more marked deterioration with the daily
measure now pointing to a 0.5% fall nationally, dip for the
month as a whole. The detail shows Sydney and Melbourne
prices declining at a 1.2% and 0.9% monthly pace and a
further slowing in momentum in Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth.
Turnover will be a key area to watch as tax policy changes
announced at the Federal budget start to impact investor
activity.
AUS: May Dwelling Approvals (%mth)

Jul 1, Last: –3.4, Westpac f/c: –1.0
Market f/c: 0.0, Range: -5.0 to 5.0
Dwelling approvals fell 3.4%mth in April but with the annual
pace still lifting to 10.2%yr. Activity looks to be normalising
back towards the 2025 average monthly run rate after a brief
surge earlier in the year.
That normalisation is likely to continue in May with high rise
approvals still above average 2025 levels in April. Non-high
rise components are likely to show some flattening. The

key question is the extent to which rate rises impact – these
tend to have a delayed impact on approvals activity, usually
taking several months to show through. Meanwhile there are
some potential countervailing forces coming through state
government policy measures aimed at lifting supply, which
likely work through even longer lags.

### Page 8

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
8
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
NZ: May Monthly Employment Indicator (%mth)
Jun 29, Last: 0.2, Westpac f/c: 0.2
The MEI has been showing a modest uptick in employment
since late 2025, adding to the evidence that the New Zealand
economy was regaining momentum prior to the Iran conflict.

The weekly snapshots provided by Stats NZ suggest that the
labour market has held its ground during the conflict, with
the number of filled jobs continuing to track slightly above
year-ago levels. Given that the MEI tends to be overstated on
the first release, we expect to see a 0.2% rise for May initially,
which is then likely to be revised closer to flat. The April
increase is also likely to be revised lower.
NZ: Jun ANZ Business Confidence (index)

Jun 30, Last: 10.0
Business sentiment improved a bit in May, after falling sharply
in March and April in response to the Iran conflict. With
domestic fuel prices easing further in recent weeks, we should
see a further lift in confidence in the June survey – although
given the timing of the US-Iran peace agreement, we could see
another sharp distinction between early and late responses
during the month (the latter group typically being smaller).
With a critical RBNZ decision looming next month, the focus

will also be on the inflation indicators in this survey such as
pricing intentions and expected wage growth.
AUS: May Goods Trade Balance ($bn)
Jul 2 Last: 1.8, Westpac f/c: 2.5
Mkt f/c: 2.4, Range: 1.0 to 3.5
Having dipped below zero in March, the headline goods trade
balance recovered to $1.8bn in April, supported by strong
commodity outflows after a weak Q1. We are expecting a
further improvement in May to $2.5bn.
The May picture again looks nuanced, with multiple categories

pulling in different directions. Major commodity exports are
set to decline, led by LNG. Rural goods exports should rise,
with meat exports taking another step higher from already
elevated levels. On the imports side, the key categories to
watch are fuel and ADP equipment. The former more than
doubled in March and April, and lower oil prices point to some
reversal this time. The ADP is much harder to judge, given
the recent volatility. We have pencilled in a recovery after the

April retreat, although total imports may still fall.

### Page 9

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
9
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
US: Jun employment report (000s)
Jul 2, payrolls, Last: 172, Mkt f/c: 115, WBC f/c: 100

Nonfarm payrolls surprised materially to the upside in May, 
a gain of 172k reported in the month as well as 93k in back 
revisions to March and April. The 3-month average more than 
doubled to 188k as a result, a pace of employment growth 
well in excess of new labour supply. 
Household employment growth remained weak, however, and 
the unemployment rate unchanged at 4.3%. Average hourly 
earnings growth was also benign at 3.5%yr.
June’s report will provide guidance on whether the labour 
market is just marking time or tightening anew. It will also 
provide clarity on whether one-off’s were behind May’s surge, 
most notably owing to the staging of the World Cup.
NZ: May Building Consents (%mth)
Jul 2, Last: 10.9, Westpac f/c: –5
April saw an 11% rise in dwelling consent numbers, 
underpinned by a large number of apartment consents. As 
such consents are typically issued in batches, we expect they 
will drop back this month. However, the underlying trend 
in consent issuance more generally has remained firm, with 
the annual total rising to its highest level since 2023. Even 
with the expected easing in the May month, the annual total 
is set to continue climbing. On the non-residential front, 
nervousness about economic conditions means that the 
amount of commercial building work planned is expected to 
continue tracking broadly sideways, though trends are mixed 
across segments.

### Page 10

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
10
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOR THE WEEK AHEAD
What to watch
For Data/Event Unit Last Market f/c
Westpac
f/c Risk/Comment
Mon 29
Aus RBA Speak – – – – Speech by Assistant Governor Kent in Sydney, 9:30am AEST.
NZ May Monthly Employment Indicator %mth 0.2 – 0.2 Jobs have held their ground through the Iran conflict.

Eur May M3 Money Supply %ann 2.7 2.7 – Tight credit conditions and weak demand keep supply weak.
Jun Economic Confidence index 93.5 94.8 – Confidence stabilising but remains at levels consistent...
Jun Consumer Confidence index –17.7 – – ...weak activity offering limited support for spending.
US Jun Dallas Fed Manufacturing index 0.4 – – Weak conditions highlight ongoing industrial softness
Tue 30
Aus RBA Minutes – – – – Detail the deliberations of the hawkish hold.

May Private Sector Credit %mth 0.7 0.6 0.6 Likely to see the first signs of slowing post RBA rate hikes.
NZ Jun ANZ Business Confidence index 10.0 – – Should see a lift but especially among later responses.
Jpn May Jobless Rate % 2.5 2.5 – Structural forces keep labour markets tight.
May Industrial Production %mth 0.5 0.1 – Underlying momentum mixed with volatile output figures.
Chn Jun NBS Manufacturing PMI index 50.0 50.1 – Manufacturing activity remains soft reflecting weak...

Jun NBS Non–Manufacturing PMI index 50.1 49.9 – ...demand and ongoing headwinds.
UK Q1 GDP %ann 1.1 – –  Consistent with a subdued expansion.
US Apr FHFA House Prices %mth 0.1 – – House price growth easing as affordability..
Apr S&P/CS Home Price Index %mth –0.2 – – ...constraints weigh on demand.
Jun Chicago PMI index 62.7 – – Reinforcing broader industrial softness.
Jun Conf. Board Consumer Confidence index 93.1 94.3 – Confidence remains fragile amid ongoing cost pressures

May JOL TS Job Openings 000s 7618 7275 – Job openings trending lower, signalling easing labour demand
Wed 01
Aus Jun Cotality Home Value Index %mth –0.1 – –0.5 Turnover will be a key area to watch.
May Dwelling Approvals %mth –3.4 0.0 –1.0 Activity looks to be normalising after a brief surge.
Jpn Q2 Tankan Large Manufacturers index 17 16 – External demand is supporting business sentiment.
Wrld Jun S&P Global Manufacturing PMI index – – – Global factory activity remains subdued

Eur Jun CPI %ann 3.2 3.1 – Soft demand sees inflation ease.
US Jun ADP Employment Change 000s 122 118 – Hiring is moderating consistent with a cooling labour market.
Jun ISM Manufacturing index 54.0 53.8 – Likely to show continued contraction in the industrial sector
Thu 02
Aus May Goods Trade Balance $mn 1.8 2.4 2.5 Nuanced result with categories pulling in opposite directions.
NZ May Building Permits %mth 10.9 – –5.0 Monthly pullback, but longer term trend still firm.

Kor Jun CPI %ann 3.1 3.2 – Pressures easing consistent with regional disinflation trend.
Eur May Unemployment Rate % 6.3 6.3 – Forward indicators suggest gradual softening
US Jun Nonfarm Payrolls 000s 172 115 100 Jobs and wage growth is moderating, pointing to a gradual...
Jun Average Hourly Earnings %mth 0.3 0.3 – easing but still above levels consistent with target inflation
Initial Jobless Claims 000s 215 220 – Claims remain low, suggesting layoffs are still contained

Jun Unemployment Rate % 4.3 4.3 – Edging higher, consistent with a softening labour market
May Factory Orders %mth 4.8 – – Orders likely to pick up after a recovery in durable goods.
Fri 03
NZ Jun ANZ Consumer Confidence index 86.5 – – Further gains likely after a modest rebound in May.

### Page 11

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
11
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
LOOKING FURTHER AHEAD
Interest rate forecasts
Australia Latest (26 Jun) Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28 Sep–28 Dec–28
Cash 4.35 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.60 4.35 4.10 3.85
90 Day BBSW 4.46 4.90 4.90 4.95 4.95 4.95 4.80 4.55 4.30 4.05 3.95

3 Year Swap 4.35 4.65 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20 4.10 4.00 3.90
3 Year Bond 4.36 4.65 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20 4.10 4.00 3.90
10 Year Bond 4.72 4.90 4.90 4.90 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.90 4.95
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 35 40 40 35 30 25 20 15 10 10 10
United States
Fed Funds 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625
US 10 Year Bond 4.38 4.50 4.50 4.55 4.55 4.60 4.65 4.70 4.75 4.80 4.85
New Zealand
Cash 2.25 2.50 2.75 3.25 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.75

90 Day Bill 2.69 2.75 3.15 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.15 3.95
2 Year Swap 3.32 3.55 3.85 4.05 4.20 4.25 4.20 4.20 4.15 4.15 4.10
10 Year Bond 4.36 4.40 4.55 4.80 5.00 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05
10 Year Spread to US (bps) –2 –10 5 25 45 45 40 35 30 25 20
Exchange rate forecasts
Latest (26 Jun) Sep-26 Dec-26 Mar-27 Jun-27 Sep-27 Dec-27 Mar-28 Jun-28 Sep-28 Dec-28
AUD/USD 0.6893 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73
NZD/USD 0.5645 0.59 0.60 0.62 0.64 0.65 0.66 0.66 0.66 0.66 0.66

USD/JPY 161.57 158 156 154 152 150 148 146 144 142 140
EUR/USD 1.1379 1.17 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.21 1.21
GBP/USD 1.3205 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.40 1.40
USD/CNY 6.8010 6.75 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35 6.30 6.30
AUD/NZD 1.2212 1.22 1.22 1.19 1.16 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.11 1.11 1.11
Australian economic forecasts
2026 2027 Calendar years
% change Q1 Q2(f) Q3(f) Q4(f) Q1(f) Q2(f) Q3(f) Q4(f) 2025 2026(f) 2027(f) 2028(f)

GDP %qtr 0.3 0.0 0.1 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 – – – –
%yr end 2.5 1.6 1.3 0.7 0.9 1.2 1.4 1.5 2.5 0.7 1.5 2.6
Unemployment rate % 4.2 4.4 4.6 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.9 4.9 4.3 4.9 4.9 4.5
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr 0.8 0.8 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 – – – –
%yr end 3.3 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.4
Headline CPI %qtr 1.4 1.0 1.5 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.5 – – – –
%yr end 4.1 4.4 4.6 4.7 4.0 3.7 3.0 2.8 3.6 4.7 2.8 2.2
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr 0.8 1.0 1.1 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 – – – –

%yr end 3.5 3.8 3.8 3.8 3.7 3.5 3.2 3.0 3.4 3.8 3.0 2.4
Economic & financial forecasts
New Zealand economic forecasts
2026 2027 Calendar years
% Change Q1 Q2(f) Q3(f) Q4(f) Q1(f) Q2(f) Q3(f) Q4(f) 2025 2026(f) 2027(f) 2028(f)
GDP %qtr 0.8 –0.1 0.6 0.7 1.0 0.5 0.6 0.7 – – – –
Annual avg change 0.8 1.6 1.8 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.4 2.6 0.3 1.9 2.6 3.2
Unemployment rate % 5.3 5.4 5.4 5.3 5.2 5.1 5.0 4.9 5.4 5.3 4.9 4.4
CPI %qtr 0.9 1.4 0.7 0.4 0.6 0.2 0.7 0.4 – – – –

Annual change 3.1 4.0 3.7 3.5 3.1 1.9 1.9 2.0 3.1 3.5 2.0 2.0

### Page 13

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

### Page 14

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

---
## Document 225: Cliff Notes_ on the minds of policy makers (2026-07-05)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Cliff Notes_ on the minds of policy makers (2026-07-05).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#cliffnotes #rba #australia #inflation #us #fomc #ecb #aud #usd
Cliff Notes: on the minds of policy makers
By Elliot Clarke, Ryan Wells&Illiana Jain
11:28 July 03 2026 Share
Key insights from the week that was.
This week’s RBA minutes provided more colour around the Monetary Policy Board’s (MPB) June
deliberations. Overall, the MPB views the economy as “operating with excess demand and widespread
inflationary pressures”. On the domestic front, there were “somewhat differing views” among MPB

members regarding the extent of current capacity pressures, but they are nonetheless seen as
elevated and a risk to the normalisation of inflation towards target. On the Middle East conflict, the

### Page 2

MPB welcomed progress towards a resolution but still viewed the balance of risks as firmly skewed to
the upside for inflation and the downside for growth. As such, “increasing the cash rate target” will be
considered if required.
Last week’s speech from Deputy Governor Hauser shed more light on the RBA’s thinking on the
relationship between inflation and unemployment. The main takeaway is that inflation tends to be more
sensitive when the economy is already tight; but equally, that the policy trade-off in such a situation

allows more scope to focus on bringing inflation down without a large cost to employment. These
judgements underscore the RBA’s successive rate hikes earlier in the year and their subsequent
decision to pause and assess in June.
The RBA is also closely monitoring trends in the housing market and the implications for wealth and
consumption. Cotality’s latest home value index fell 0.4% in June, Sydney and Melbourne’s correction
deepening as price growth slowed from a higher base across the smaller capitals. Together with signs

of slowing credit growth, evidence that the RBA’s rate hikes and sentiment are weighing on the market
is mounting. Westpac is forecasting further house price declines through the remainder of the year,
though strong population growth and tight supply will limit their scale.
Before moving offshore, a final note on trade. The goods trade balance surprised materially to the
downside in May, flipping from a surplus of $1.4bn to a deficit of $3.0bn, the largest in over a decade.

Volatility in gold flows was one of the chief culprits, accentuated by a surprisingly large fall in iron ore
exports and a solid lift in car imports (i.e. EVs). Imports of equipment related to the data centre build-
out have moderated but are still well above historical norms. Expect continued volatility over the
coming year(s).
Over in the US, nonfarm payrolls disappointed in June, with only 57k jobs created and April/May
revised down by a combined 74k. The three-month average is now 111k versus 164k in May, though

June’s result still suggests labour demand is at least keeping pace with supply. Household survey
employment is materially weaker, however, declining 507k in June and averaging a loss of 195k jobs
per month over the past three. Further, continuing the trend of the past 18 months, the participation
rate fell to 61.5% in June; had participation held steady since January 2025, the unemployment rate
would now be above 5%, not the reported 4.2%. Taken together, these outcomes imply the labour

market is most likely marking time. That said, the downside risks the household survey allude to are
worth close attention.
Also consistent with the FOMC becoming less concerned with inflation in coming months was the latest
ISM manufacturing report. Most notably, the prices component fell 9.1pts to 73, signalling a turn in
upstream price pressures. Together with the decline in oil benchmarks in recent weeks and the
available detail of both the CPI and PPI, which have offered little evidence of material secondary

inflation effects from the Middle East conflict, this moderation should alleviate concerns amongst the
FOMC that a sustained re-acceleration in consumer inflation is a probable risk.
The preliminary release for June Euro Area inflation was also supportive of an increasingly benign
inflation outlook, prices falling 0.1% versus a 0.1% expected gain. The improvement was broad based
too, annual headline inflation moderating to 2.8%yr from 3.2%yr and core inflation to 2.4%yr from

### Page 3

Related articles
2.6%yr. Importantly, this was achieved while the labour market remains historically tight.
FOMC Chair Kevin Warsh picked up on this improvement in inflation prospects at the ECB’s Sintra
Forum on Central Banking, highlighting that inflation expectations and risks "have come down" in
recent weeks. Admittedly he is focused on the US but, per the Euro Area data above, the narrative is
broadly true for developed economies across the northern hemisphere. The keynote panel at the

conference also discussed several other important topics including the need for greater flexibility and
timeliness when conducting monetary policy, how AI advances are being factored into decision making
and the importance of safeguarding financial stability.
Finally to Asia where the Q2 Tankan was received positively, participants focusing on the increase in
large manufacturer sentiment from 17 to 22. Other outcomes were less positive, however. Smaller

manufacturers are more cautious, as are service firms. R&D expectations were also revised down, and
profitability and labour market indicators came under pressure. Overall, the survey suggests the BoJ
needs to keep evolving risks in mind as they continue to normalise policy.
Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 4

Cliff Notes: patience is a virtue
June 26 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Ryan Wells & Illiana Jain
#cliffnotes

### Page 5

Cliff Notes: policy matters
June 19 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke , Ryan Wells , Illiana Jain &1 more
Cliff Notes: stuck in the moment
June 12 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Ryan Wells , Illiana Jain &1 more
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
Browse topics

### Page 6

#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags

### Page 7

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 8

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 9

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 10

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 11

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 242: DeepSeek新技术移植苹果芯片！Mac本地大模型加速60%

Source PDF: all report pdf/DeepSeek新技术移植苹果芯片！Mac本地大模型加速60%.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-07-03
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

DeepSeek 开源 DSpark 仅⼀周，⼯程师 Abdur Rahim 便推出⾸个苹果芯⽚原⽣版本 mlx-
dspark 。在 M4 Pro 上，该版本通过投机解码与 MLX 框架重构，成功将 Gemma-4 和 Qwen3
模型的⽣成速度分别提升 1.6 倍和 1.4 倍。
摘要：
DSpark 刚开源⼀周，就被搬进了苹果电脑。
移植版本叫 mlx-dspark ，跑的是 Gemma-4 12B 和 Qwen3-4B 这两个模型。
装上之后，这两个模型在 Mac 上的⽣成速度分别提了 1.6 倍和 1.4 倍。
更难的是，它做到了⼤多数移植版本做不到的⼀件事 —— 输出和原模型逐字节相同，⼀个字都
不差。
也就是说，速度换来了，质量⼀点没丢。
动⼿的⼈是 Abdur Rahim ，业余时间捣⿎开源项⽬的⼀个⼯程师， DSpark 开源以来的第⼀个
Mac 原⽣版本，都是他⼀个⼈做出来的。
苹果电脑跑⼤模型，提速 60%
针对 DeepSeek 在 6 ⽉ 27 ⽇开源的 DSpark ，官⽅给出的数字是服务端场景下能提速 60% 到 85% 。

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

不过这套技术当时只有数据中⼼ GPU 上的实现，没有适配苹果芯⽚的版本。
mlx-dspark 是这套技术的第⼀个苹果芯⽚原⽣版本。
DSpark 的思路是配⼀个更⼩的模型给⽬标模型打下⼿，⼩模型先⼀⼝⽓蹦出⼏个候选词，⽬标
模型再⼀次性核对，对的收下，错的打回去重猜。
这⼀步的成本，在数据中⼼和苹果电脑上不⼀样。
在数据中⼼的 GPU 上，核对⼀批候选词更像包⻋，坐⼏个⼈都是⼀⼝价，解码本来就是内存瓶
颈，多核对⼏个词⼏乎不多花时间。
苹果芯⽚更像打表的出租⻋，核对的候选词越多，表跳得越多。
Rahim 实测过， Gemma-4 12B 每多核对⼀个 token ，要多花约 14 毫秒。他把这套账算成了⼀个
成本模型，得出的结论是，苹果芯⽚上的速度天花板在 2.2 倍左右。
总之， Rahim 把这个打下⼿的⼩模型从 HuggingFace 的 checkpoint ⾥搬了过来，分别配给
Gemma-4 12B 和 Qwen3-4B 这两个⽬标模型使⽤。
他还把核对流程在 MLX 框架⾥重新搭了⼀遍，权重量化成 4-bit 。

结果，在 M4 Pro 上，对⽐苹果官⽅的 MLX ⼯具， Gemma-4 12B 的⽣成速度从 18.4tok/s 涨到约
30tok/s ，是原来的约 1.6 倍； Qwen3-4B 从 52.9tok/s 涨到约 73tok/s ，是原来的约 1.4 倍。
另外，在 mlx-dspark ⾥， Rahim 还做了⼀件⼤多数移植⼯作没做的事。
移植版本，也能⾼精度还原
多数把⼤模型搬到本地的版本，只⽀持贪婪解码，也就是每⼀步都挑概率最⾼的那个词。
Rahim 在 mlx-dspark ⾥，把 DSpark 论⽂⾥原本描述的温度采样⽅法也实现了出来，草稿模型给
出候选词，接受概率是 min(1, p/q) ，没通过的部分从残差重新采样。
他⾃⼰核对过，这套流程跑出来的输出，严格等于⽬标模型在同样温度下会给出的那个精确分
布，不是打了折扣的近似版本。

### Page 3

多数投机解码只做贪婪版本，是因为验证贪婪模式的正确性很简单，逐字⽐对就⾏。
Rahim 多做的这⼀步，是⾃⼰把采样模式下跑出来的输出分布核对了⼀遍，确认没有⾛样。
负责核对的⽬标模型该配哪个精度，是他⾃⼰试出来的⼀个坑。
如果⼩模型配的是没经过指令微调的基础版⽬标模型，蹦出的候选词只有 47% 能通过核对；换
成对应的指令微调版本，这个⽐例涨到 82% 。
他还测过把⽬标模型换成 bf16 精度，核对成本涨得⽐通过率涨得多，反⽽更慢，所以⽬标模型默
认留在 8-bit 上最划算。
负责打前站蹦候选词的⼩模型，⽤的是另⼀套精度。
草稿模型本⾝被他做了压缩， 4-bit 量化之后只有 1.8GB ，装进内存毫⽆压⼒，跑起来还是⽆损。
结果就是， DSpark 不仅实现了加速，也确实把论⽂⾥提到的 16% 到 18% 接受率提升，在设备端
复现了出来。
DFlash 也接了进来，代码任务更快
推⽂发出后，评论区来了⼀条留⾔， DFlash 论⽂的作者之⼀ Jian Chen 问，能不能试试他们团队

的模型。
DFlash 是 z-lab 今年 5 ⽉发的论⽂⾥提出的另⼀种投机解码⽅案，作者团队带头⼈ Zhijian Liu ，
UCSD 助理教授，同时是 NVIDIA 的研究科学家。
DFlash 的思路和 DSpark 不太⼀样，它⽤⼀次并⾏的「块扩散」去噪⼀整块 16 个 token ，⽽不是
像 DSpark 那样⼀步步带着依赖关系去猜。
Rahim 迅速动⼿。
他⽤ Jian ⾃⼰写的移植脚本，把 z-lab 发布的 gemma4-12B-it-DFlash 接到 mlx-vlm 的 Gemma-4 ⽬
标模型上，在同⼀台 Mac 上，跟⾃⼰刚测完的 DSpark ⼜跑了⼀轮头对头对⽐。

### Page 4

代码和数学任务上， DFlash 整块解码的接受⻓度能到 5.95 到 6.20 ，速度约 36tok/s ，达到约 2.1
倍，跑赢了 DSpark 。
但是， DFlash ⼀次要蹦出⼀整块 16 个 token ，⽽但⽬标模型未必全部认可，实际能通过核对的只
是其中⼀部分，业内管这个叫 “ 接受⻓度 ” ，不是每次都能把 16 个全填满。
所以在开放聊天这种内容不好预测的场景⾥，接受⻓度上不去，块填不满， DFlash 的优势发挥
不出来。
DSpark 的 Markov 头正是为了对付同⼀个⽑病存在的，并⾏蹦出⼀整块词，越往后的位置是各⾃
独⽴算出来的，容易互相不搭调， Markov 头给这些位置之间加了⼀层依赖关系，专⻔纠正这个
问题。
结果就是，在聊天场景⾥， DSpark 反⽽⽐ DFlash 更快。
⽽后更新的 mlx-dspark v0.0.3 ，正式把 z-lab 原版 DFlash 接⼊了包⾥，还加了⼀个参数，可以⼿
动把 DFlash 的有效块⻓度调短，聊天场景⽤短块，代码和数学场景仍然⽤满 16 的整块。

这之后，同⼀台 Mac 、同⼀个包，就能同时完成聊天和代码、数学类的任务，不⽤再在 DSpark
和 DFlash 两个项⽬之间来回搬了。

### Page 5

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
158 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
Rahim 在推⽂⾥说，同样的⽅法，⽤在更⼤的 Qwen3-8B 和 14B 草稿模型上应该也能跑通。
来源：量⼦位
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 260: Fed holds; Warsh signals change

Source PDF: all report pdf/Fed holds; Warsh signals change.pdf
Report source: 渣打銀行 (Market Watch)
Date: 2026-06-18
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Fed holds; Warsh signals 
change 
Summary 
Event: The Fed held its policy rate target steady at 3.5 -
3.75%, as expected. The decision, the first under new Chair 
Kevin Warsh, was unanimous among the 12 voting members. 
In a curtailed statement, the Fed dropped its previous easing 
bias as growth remains “solid” and inflation remains above its 
2% target. It provided little forward guidance, except noting it 
“will deliver price stability” and maintain “ample reserves in 
the banking system”. Nevertheless, nine out of 18 Fed 
policymakers now expect at least one 25bps rate hike this 
year. Warsh himself did not provide his projection s, but  
signalled potentially far -reaching changes to the Fed’s data 
analysis and communications strategies. 
Our View:  Markets interpreted th e dropping of the easing 
bias as hawkish, with money markets once again pricing in 
one full rate hike this year and the US bond yield curve bear 
flattening (short -term yields rising more than long -term 
yields). We believe this is consistent with our narrative that 
Warsh is trying to tack to the centre to establish his inflation-
fighting credentials, but should ultimately keep rates on hold 
for the remainder of 2026 and cut next year amid falling oil 
prices and easing inflation after the US-Iran MOU agreement.  
Investment strategy: We maintain shorter maturities in our 
bond allocations, preferring the 3 -5-year bucket, as we 
expect market expectations of rates hikes to be pared back. 
We expect longer -end yields to stay elevated , with the 10 -
year yield ranging 4.25-4.5%, amid fiscal policy risks. 
Setting the tone for a regime shift? 
Forward guidance removed . The F ed Open Market 
Committee’s new minimalist statement was trimmed 
considerably. It removed any forward guidance and the 
easing bias that had caused three hawkish members to 
dissent at the April meeting , while reaffirming the Fed ’s 
commitment to price stabili ty and maintaining “ample” 
banking system reserves.  
 US equities and bonds fell on Wednesday as markets 
perceived the Fed’s statement as hawkish  
Asset performance: 16-June close to 17-June close

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

We expect the Fed to hold rates for the rest of the year 
and cut in H1 2027 as inflation gradually returns 
towards its 2% target with the pullback in oil prices 
US crude oil price, 1-year and 5-year inflation expectations

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

-4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2
Silver (83.1)
Gold (25.6)
S&P 500 (24.0)
Nasdaq 100 (36.6)
EUR/USD (0.2)
CHF/USD (2.1)
US 10-year bond (-0.9)
USD (1.3)
Euro Stoxx 50 (19.1)
WTI crude oil (2.6)
*12m returns 
in bracket (%)       Price return (%)
1-day performance
76.8
2.5
2.2
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
40
55
70
85
100
115
Dec-25 Feb-26 Apr-26 Jun-26
%
USD/bbl
WTI oil
1y inflation (RHS)
5y breakeven inflation (RHS)

### Page 2

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 June 2026

“Solid” activity, above target inflation:  The new 
statement mentions that activity is expanding at a solid pace, 
that productivity growth and capital investment are strong, 
that job gains have kept pace with the workforce, and that the 
unemployment rate has changed little.  The statement notes 
that inflation remains elevated relative to the 2% goal, in part 
due to supply shocks. Importantly, the statement emphasises 
that the "Committee will deliver price stability," without 
making any mention of the maximum employment side of the 
mandate. This is seen as communicating  the committee's 
determination to bring inflation back towards the 2% target.  
On the balance sheet, it is noteworthy that the statement 
reaffirms the committee's policy of maintaining ample 
reserves in the banking system, likely mitigating concerns 
that the balance sheet would be reduced rapidly.  
Warsh abstains from a hawkish ‘dot plot’: Although Warsh 
did not submit his projections, t he Fed’s revised ‘dot plot ’ 
shows that nine of the 18 participants who submitted a ‘dot’ 
favoured one or more 25bp s rate hikes this year.  This 
compares with a median end-2026 projection of 3.4% in the 
March estimates , which suggested a 25bps rate cut . End-
2027 projection s were revised to 3.6%, from 3.1%, 
suggesting most policymakers expects rates to stay elevated 
for longer. 
2026 growth projections cut, inflation estimates raised.  
Economic projections -wise, growth was revised lower  to 
2.2% for 2026 and inflation estimates were revised higher for 
both 2026 and 2027. Nevertheless, PCE inflation is projected 
to drop to 2. 3% by Q4 2027, from 3.6% in Q4 2026, before 
returning to the Fed’s target of 2% by end 2028. 
A regime shift?  At the press conference, Chairman Warsh 
outlined his vision for a very different Fed. Forward guidance 
and Fed governor speeches are expected to be dialled back 
significantly, and he hinted at the dot plots themselves 
potentially disappearing altogether in the future, bringing the 
Fed’s communication strategy back to the pre-Bernanke era.  
Warsh announced five new “Task Force(s)” to scrutinise the 
Fed’s processes in the following areas: i) communication; ii) 
how the Fed gathers and analyses data; iii) the balance sheet 
and operating system; iv) outlook for productivity (amid AI -
related uncertainty); and v) the inflation framework (subject 
to maintaining its 2% inflation target).  
The task forces are expected to report back by year -end. 
Dropping the dot plot would be relatively easy – it was 
introduced in the post-Global Financial Crisis era of near-zero 
interest rates. Efforts to reduce the Fed’s balance sheet amid 
rising government debt could be more challenging.  
—  Jonathan Liang, Chief Investment Officer for FICC  
Rajat Bhattacharya, Senior Investment Strategist 
 The Fed’s median projections revised inflation and rate 
estimates higher for 2026-28  
Fed’s projections for growth, inflation and interest rates

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

US growth is likely to hold around its 2% long-term 
trend over the next 12 months  
Consensus estimates of GDP growth for Q2 2027

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Dates Old New Old New Old New Old New
2026 2.4 2.2 4.4 4.3 2.7 3.3 3.4 3.8
2027 2.3 2.3 4.3 4.3 2.2 2.5 3.1 3.6
2028 2.1 2.2 4.2 4.2 2.0 2.1 3.1 3.4
LR* 2.0 2.0 4.2 4.2 3.1 3.1
GDP
Unemploy
ment Core PCE
Rates 
estimates
2.1
1.2
0.8
1.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Dec-25 Feb-26 Apr-26 Jun-26
% y/y
US Euro area
Japan UK

### Page 3

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 June 2026

3

### Page 4

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 June 2026

4

### Page 5

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 June 2026

5

### Page 6

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 June 2026

6

### Page 7

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 June 2026

7

license to undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shariah Supervisor y 
Committee. Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank 
website in the Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by the Central 
Bank of the U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does 
not provide financial analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodities 
Authority Decision No. 48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis. Uganda: Our Investment products 
and services are distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as  
an investment adviser. United Kingdom : In the UK, Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation 
Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. This communication has been 
approved by Standard Chartered Bank for the purposes  of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and 
Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Global 
Private Bank) is also an authorised financial services provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial 
Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal requirements 
designed to promote the independence of investment research, and that  it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of 
the dissemination of investment research. Vietnam: This document is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, 
Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulated by State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam 
should contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited for any queries regarding any content of this document. Zambia: This 
document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company incorporated in Zambia and registered as a 
commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws of 
Zambia.

---
## Document 292: KGI Weekly Kickstart (2026-06-26)

Source PDF: all report pdf/KGI Weekly Kickstart (2026-06-26).pdf
Report source: KGI (凱基證券)
Date: 2026-06-26
Pages: 16
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
26 June 2026
投資策略週報 Global Markets Weekly Kickstart
餵養AI巨獸，原物料成關鍵
AI Power Beast: Feeding on Materials

### Page 2

2
輝達股東會萬眾矚目，
AI展望有信心
01 本週焦點圖表
熱門議題
市場震盪加大，
類股輪動表現
市場回顧
投資焦點
美光業績勝預期，
產能提升但供不應求
03
02
04
布局AI產業供電、
儲電與輸電一條龍商機
記得檢查圖片

### Page 3

3
► 本次股東會聚焦在 AI投資回報 、產品量產 、
未來三大成長引擎以及晶片走私與中國出口
等議題 。黃仁勳表示只要 AI產出的結果是有
用的(例如自動生成程式碼 )就能帶來利潤 ，
並提到 輝達 的系 統 在成本 和收入 潛力 的優
勢。此外，公司亦重申維持回饋 50%自由現
金流給股東 。產品的部分提到 Vera Rubin已
全速量產，透過GPU與CPU的架構解決算力
的瓶頸並打入AI代理人運算市場。
► 三大成長引擎包括AI代理人(最核心)、AI推理
及實體AI。其中，AI代理人將為成長主力 ，
主因AI正式進入具備推理能力及能獨立執行
商務任務的時代 。而結合大規模工業與醫療
應用的AI實體機器人技術將成為新的成長機
會。在晶片走私問題 ，黃仁勳表示持續配合
美國政策 ，若商務機會與美國國安衝突時會
優先考慮美國利益 ，並提到走私及零件拼湊
是不可行的 。此外，中國特供版晶片雖有獲
得美國許可，但產生營收仍具不確定性。
輝達股東會替投資人解惑AI投資回報，黃仁勳揭示三大成長引擎

焦點圖表
焦點圖表
AI算力落實應用：AI工廠生產Token翻轉利潤，三大引擎聚焦AI代理人、AI推理與實體AI
輝達2026年股東會重點
未來在推論、代理人及實體應用將成業務推動引擎
Vera Rubin已進入全速量產
輝達產品有更高的表現並貢獻營收機會
資料來源：輝達公司官網，凱基證券整理

### Page 4

4
美國4大指數漲跌互見，類股輪動明顯，表現轉由防禦股帶動
各地區指數表現(%)  美股各產業指數表現(%)
市場回顧主要股市
市場回顧
11.8
11.6
15.6
10.2
5.6
10.5
7.5
33.8
4.8
19.3
-8.9
近三月(%)
~~
0.1
2.5
2.1
1.1
0.2
4.6
0.6
3.0
-4.4
-4.2
-5.7
資訊科技
非必需消費
通訊服務
金融
房地產
工業
能源
原物料
醫療保健
必需消費
公用事業
近一週(%)
24.8
2.8
4.3
8.3
10.7
11.5
4.5
6.4
1.6
1.3
-11.3
近三月(%)
► 美國那斯達克指數與費城半導體指數表現相
對疲弱 ，主要反映 AI與科技股在前期漲幅過
高後出現獲利了結 ，加上估值對利率變動敏
感，使 高 成長 族 群 承壓，近 期走 勢 震 盪劇
烈 ， 而 標 普500 亦 受 拖 累， 但 跌 幅 相 對 溫
和，道瓊工業指數則因成分股具現金流穩定
與估值較低特性而相對抗跌 ，整體呈現明顯

類股輪動特徵 。歐洲與日本市場則因估值相
對合理而維持韌性 ，特別是日股近期持續受
惠半導體與 AI供應鏈題材推動表現 ，近一週
亦較費半指數與那斯達克指數抗跌 ，香港則
受到總經數據不佳而持續回檔。
► 產業部分 ，科技、通訊及非必需消費跌幅較
重，而防禦類股包括醫療保健及公用事業表
現亮眼 ，市場短期明顯從成長股轉由防禦股
主導，而工業及原物料則受惠 AI題材帶動相
關基礎設施而有不錯表現 。能源反彈 ，但因
油價持續回落 ，因此短線走勢可視為跌深反
彈。
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026年6月25日
0.7
0.7
1.6
0.0
0.1
0.3
0.7
-1.9
-4.4
-2.8
-3.5
-1.7
道瓊工業
標普500
那斯達克
費城半導體
泛歐600
英國富時
德國法蘭克福
法國CAC
日經225
香港恆生
上海綜合
MSCI新興市場
近一週(%)
75.0

### Page 5

5
0.5
1.1
2.3
0.1
3.2
2.2
2.8
3.4
2.1
3.0
-0.1
-0.3
近三月(%)
► 美國 5 月 PCE 年增約 4.1% 、 核心 PCE 約
3.4%，數據大致符合市場預期 ，市場對通膨
失控的擔憂稍有緩解 ，但對快速降息預期已
大幅下降 ，美國10年期公債殖利率呈現 「先
升後降 」走勢，債市表現溫和上揚 。投資級
債券表現相對穩定 ，信用利差維持平穩 。然
而美元指數仍維持偏強格局 ，反映市場對利
率維持高位的定價尚未改變。
► 美伊簽署停戰協議備忘錄 ，荷姆茲海峽地緣
風險降溫 ，油價持續回落 ，通膨預期有機會
逐步改善 ，後續觀察美債殖利率與美元走勢
是否轉弱 。整體商品市場則受利率與美元主
導，黃金與銅價下跌 ，然而銅需求受 AI發展
帶動，近3個月走勢在原物料中屬於偏強，後
續關注電網基礎建設相關題材 。整體而言 ，
市場在通膨未惡化及利率仍偏緊的結構下 ，
呈現選 擇性 風險 承 擔與資 產重新 定價 的過
程，資產價格波動可能加劇。

通膨數據大致符合預期，美國公債殖利率稍降但美元仍偏強，商品下跌
各類債券表現(%) 各類商品及貨幣表現(%)
市場回顧債市 商品 貨幣
2.7
1.0
0.6
-5.6
-3.3
-1.9
-5.2
-5.5
-0.9
-1.6
-0.3
-0.4
西德州原油
黃金
天然氣
白銀
銅
比特幣
以太幣
美元指數
歐元
澳幣
日圓
人民幣
近一週(%)
0.0
9.4
0.0
1.6
0.2
1.5
-16.0
-8.1
-10.9
-3.4
-13.3
-1.4
-1.2
近三月(%)
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026年6月25日
0.1
0.1
0.1
0.4
0.7
0.0
0.2
0.1
0.0
-0.5
-0.1
-0.4
美國10年期公債
美國2年期公債
全球投等債
美投等債
歐投等債
亞投等債
全球非投等債
美國非投等債
歐洲非投等債
亞洲非投等債
新興債(當地)
新興債(美元)
近一週(%)

### Page 6

6
資料來源：Bloomberg，凱基證券整理
► 美光公布 2026財年第三季業績 ，營收414.6
億美元(季增74%，年增346%)，打破上季創
下的新高紀錄 ，業績公布後股價大幅走高 。
本季非GAAP的EPS為25.11美元，超越市場
共識幅度約兩成 ，公司亦發布2026財年第四
季指引 ， 目 標 營 收500 億 美 元， 預 估 季 增
21%、年增342%，管理層認為主要受惠於AI
需求驅動的結構性增長。
► 由於記憶體價格具週期性 ，針對市場在美光
未來收入能見度的部分 ，公司表示已簽署 16
份策略客戶協議 (SCA)，從根本上推動商業
模式轉型。協議期限最長至 2030年底，覆蓋
約 20% 的 DRAM 及 三 分 之 一 的NAND 出貨
量，協議完成後將覆蓋公司過半營收 ，並確
保毛利率下限高於歷史峰值 。管理層將以此
作為資本支出的依據 ，執行長與財務長均強
調「紀律」投資。
美光業績勝預期， 16份SCA策略協議改變商業模式
熱門議題
熱門議題
公司業務未過度集中在單一部門協議改變商業模式，提升盈利能見度

130
187
335
500
136
239
415
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
FY2026 Q1 FY2026 Q2 FY2026 Q3
(本季)
FY2026 Q4
營收指引中位數
(公布實際收入前一季發布)
當季實際收入億美元 2026財年第三季營收分布
雲端記憶體 核心資料中心
行動與客戶端 汽車與嵌入式
2026財年第三季毛利率
雲端記憶體 83%
核心資料中心 87%
行動與客戶端 87%
汽車與嵌入式 79%

### Page 7

7
投資焦點AI電力概念產業
► 高盛上調美國電力需求年成長預測 ，主因在
於數據中心電力需求帶動電網及表後自備電
力(註1)部署，而表後自備電力在很大程度上來
自天然氣發電 。由於取得許可耗時與供應鏈
瓶頸，雲端服務巨頭與數據中心營運商需應
對短期(5年)與長期(10至15年)的電力供應挑
戰。核能雖具有電力產量上的優勢 ，但其需
大額資本支出 ，且需多年後才能產生回報 ，
對於時 間比 成本 更 重要的 雲端服 務巨 頭而
言，更 在乎「快 速 上線」 而非最 低電 力成
本，因此提高了能源策略的複雜性。
► 高盛估計 ，約60%的數據中心電力需求成長
需要透過新增產能來滿足 ，其中約30%來自
天然氣複循環燃氣輪機 、30%來自尖峰負載
電廠 、 27.5% 來 自 太 陽 能、 12.5% 來 自 風
力。雖然再生能源仍是新增電力供應最快且
最有效率的方式 ，但目前技術尚無法長時間
儲存電力 ，因此有賴技術改善以支撐穩定的
基載供電，降低再生能源受天候影響程度。
對等關稅宣布後，內需防禦股獲利下修幅度最少 天然氣/電網與再生能源/電池的搭配具備高可靠性(註2)能源需求成長主要來自數據中心

資料來源：Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research，凱基證券整理
註1：表後自備電力是指直接安裝在用戶電表後端的發電與儲能設施，而表前則為來自電力公司。註2：可靠性指能夠持續、穩定、全天候供電，不會因為天氣或時間而中斷
公用事業、電網及再生能源與儲電的搭配，為短期AI電力供應主角
投資焦點
0.6%
0.4%
0.5%
0.2%
1.5%
0.5%
-0.4%
3.2%
推動美國能源需求年複合成長率(CAGR)的項目來源
住宅 商業 工業 交通
數據中心
其他 整體輸電
配電
自備
電力
能量來源 電力產量 優勢 需克服議題
太陽能 • 碳足跡較低 • 土地需求較大
• 間歇性供電
陸地風電 • 碳足跡較低 • 土地需求較大
• 間歇性供電
核能
(包括大型反應爐
及SMR)
• 具備可靠性
• 土地需求小
• 碳足跡較低
• 供應鏈
• 核廢料
• 勞動力
• 濃縮鈾供應
• 前置時間長
電池存儲 • 提升了乾淨
能源的可靠性 • 容量限制
天然氣

複循環燃氣輪機
• 具備可靠性
• 土地需求小 • 碳足跡較高
天然氣
尖峰負載電廠
• 具備可靠性
• 土地需求小
• 碳足跡較高
• 效率較複循環燃氣輪機
低
天然氣電網供電 • 具備可靠性
• 土地需求小
• 碳足跡較高
• 電網併網等待時間
雲端服務巨頭的資料中心電力來源

### Page 8

8
► 國際投行摩根大通及高盛皆指出 ，銅礦是電
力和電網建設的關鍵原料 ，且亦為再生能源
的必需品 ，在人工智慧發展帶動下 ，輸電升
級、電力資產與儲能投資激增 ，可能使銅礦
面臨結 構性 供應 短 缺。其中 ，摩 根大 通預
估，從現在到2040年，礦業公司需要投資約
3,500億美元才能滿足不斷增長的銅需求 ，然
而該產業面臨新礦供給有限 ，且現有礦場擴
建亦受限 ，因此聚焦銅資源的礦業公司及潛
在的併購活動有機會成為市場焦點。
► 此外，美國現有的大部分輸配電基礎設施已
接近或達到使用壽命終點 。高盛估計 ，2026
至2030年約需 6千億美元資本支出 ，才能更
新與支撐發電 、配電和輸電等各環節需求 。
雖然急於加快擴張的雲端巨頭與數據中心營
運商尋求自備電力作為短期方案 ，調查顯示
長期仍偏好電網供電 ，因此電網建設所需的
原料、礦產開採與技術勞動力 ，可能成為 AI
發展的新瓶頸，引發市場搶佔相關資源。
投資焦點
銅礦供應將面臨結構性供應短缺
輸、配電與電網架設皆需倚賴銅礦，可能逐漸步入結構性短缺

資料來源：Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research，J.P.Morgan，凱基證券整理
美國輸配電設施多數已達壽命且需仰賴額外資本支出
AI電力概念產業
銅礦供應(註)及需求趨勢預估，百萬公噸 美國公用事業輸配電管線統計及預估
註：一級供應和二級供應分別包括礦產供應和收集的廢料或回收材料
二級供應 一級供應 需求
近期預估 長期預估
45
40
35
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2025 2030 2035 2040 2045 2050
70%
55%
5%
5%
25%
40%
輸電
配電
美國現有輸配電的基礎設施
仍在有效年限 接近有效年限 已達有效年限
32 31 36 38 41 44 46 47 48
51 57 60 66 71 75 77 79 80
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026E 2027E 2028E 2029E 2030E
高盛預估美國電網的資本支出金額，十億美元
輸電 配電

### Page 9

9
股市
◆ 美伊簽署終戰協議備忘錄 ，油價從高位回落 ，美國企業財報獲利佳 ，股市具有實質基本面支撐 ，且
有機會擴及其他類股 ，指數仍有上漲空間 ，但留意短線漲多獲利了結壓力增 ，投資追高宜審慎 。短
線評價面可能壓抑上行動能 ，因此可透過布局醫療與公用事業等防禦股降低風險 ，長線則仍看好 科
技及AI半導體等題材，操作上可逢漲多拉回時布局相關成長股，並分散國家與產業配置。
◆ 歐、日股可作為分散配置重點 ，日股相較歐股有更高科技權重及表現潛力 ，且日本半導體展望仍佳；
日本公債殖利率彈升，有利銀行股表現。歐元區以國防軍工為主要支撐，國家偏好抗波動之英股。
策略風格：短線可布局防禦類股，中
長線仍看好AI題材如科技及半導體，
非AI部分則看好航太及國防等
區域：日本銀行股、日本半導體股、
英股及歐洲國防
債市
◆ 油價走跌，美國30年期公債殖利率雖有回落 ，仍維持在相對高位 ，短期應避免過長天期債券投資 。
可視需求布局中短天期債券領息 。高信評企業債信體質較佳者相對具防禦能力 ，可聚焦風險調整後

利差具吸引力者，包含金融、科技、通訊及公用事業等產業。
◆ 美元短期偏強，可增加非美貨幣債券分散風險，如歐元或澳幣計價投資級債券。
債種：中天期高信評債鎖利，產業如
金融、科技、通訊及公用事業等
衛星配置：非美貨幣債券分散風險
匯市
◆ 聯準會新主席華許於6月FOMC會議初登場，整體政策立場偏鷹派，潛在升息預期使殖利率曲線平坦
化，美元短期偏強有支撐。
◆ 近期油價回落有機會降低通膨預期 ，美元高位盤整 ，市場觀望後續利率政策 。日圓受惠升息以及日
本銀行干預阻貶，格局震盪但有走升機會，人民幣則在人行干預下偏升值。
美元短期偏強有撐
日圓震盪偏升，人民幣偏升值
商品
◆ 短期因美伊終戰協議備忘錄的簽署加上荷姆茲海峽重啟的預期，使油價下跌且波動加劇。
◆ 美元和美債殖利率偏上行 ，金價短期承壓 。主要國家債務擴張 ，多數央行仍持續購入黃金 ，加上投
資人亦納入黃金做為資產配置，因此中長期下檔有買盤支撐。
黃金中長期有買盤支撐
市場策略思維
類別 市場看法 偏好資產
投資焦點市場策略

### Page 10

10
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
Monday Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
• 美國上週首次申請失業救濟金人數
(預估:220k 前值:215k)
• 美國6月非農業就業人口變動
(預估:115k 前值:172k)
• 美國6月失業率
(預估:4.3% 前值:4.3%)
• 歐元區 5月失業率
(預估:6.3% 前值:6.3%)
重要經濟數據 / 事件
附錄重要經濟數據
29 30 1 2 3
附錄
資料來源：Bloomberg
► JUN 2026
22 23 24 25 26
• 美國上週首次申請失業救濟金人數
(實際:215k 預估:225k 前值:227k)
• 美國5月PCE 年增率
(實際:4.1% 預估:4.1% 前值:3.8%)
• 美國5月核心 PCE 年增率
(實際:3.4% 預估:3.4% 前值:3.3%)
• 美國第一季 GDP 季增年率終值
(實際:2.1% 預估:1.6% 前值:0.5%)

• 美國6月經濟諮詢委員會消費者信心
(預估:94.3 前值:93.1)
• 美國5月JOLTS 職缺
(預估:7,257k 前值:7,618k)
• 日本5月失業率
(預估:2.5% 前值:2.5%)
• 中國6月製造業 PMI
(預估:50.1 前值:50.0)
• 中國6月非製造業 PMI
(預估:49.9 前值:50.1)
• 美國6月標普全球製造業 PMI 初值
(實際:55.7 預估:54.6 前值:55.1)
• 美國6月標普全球服務業 PMI 初值
(實際:51.3 預估:51.1 前值:50.7)
• 日本6月標普全球製造業 PMI 初值
(實際:54.9 前值:54.5)
• 歐元區 6月標普全球製造業 PMI 初值
(實際:51.3 預估:51.6 前值:51.6)
• 臺灣5月出口訂單年增率
(實際:47.2% 預估:50.0%
前值:48.1%)
• 美國6月密大消費者信心指數終值
(預估:50.0 前值:44.8)
• 日本6月東京 CPI 年增率
(實際:1.7% 預估:1.6% 前值:1.4%)

• 美國5月新屋銷售
(實際:580k 預估:640k 前值:626k)
► JUL 2026
• 日本5月零售銷售月增率
(預估:-0.2% 前值:2.1%)
• 美國6月ADP 就業變動
(預估:118k 前值:122k)
• 美國6月標普全球製造業 PMI 終值
(前值:55.1)
• 美國6月ISM 製造業指數
(預估:53.8 前值:54.0)
• 日本6月標普全球製造業 PMI 終值
(前值:54.5)
• 歐元區 6月標普全球製造業 PMI 終值
(預估:51.3 前值:51.6)

### Page 11

11
0.0
-7.4
-2.5
-47.7
-32.3
0.0
-2.2
-0.6
0.0
-3.1
-3.3
-2.1
17.6
25.4
96.7
13.3
11.3
2.8
0.6
3.4
8.8
3.0
2.5
3.3
Max Min 目前
美元指數
歐元
日圓
澳幣
境內人民幣
新臺幣
新興貨幣指數
比特幣
以太幣
西德州原油
現貨黃金
基本金屬-0.7
-1.8
-1.6
-0.7
-3.4
-0.5
0.0
-3.9
-1.5
-3.2
-10.5
-7.3
2.1
2.4
2.1
0.1
1.3
28.4
64.8
6.9
39.6
8.1
16.6
11.2
0.5
2.5
4.5
6.5
8.5
10.5
12.5
Max Min 目前
標普500
那斯達克
泛歐600
日經225
上海綜合
臺灣加權指數
新興市場指數
美國10年期公債
美國2年期公債
全球投等債
全球非投等債
新興債(美元)
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026年6月26日
年至今主要市場/資產表現

股、債市場YTD表現(%) 貨幣、原物料市場YTD表現(%)
附錄YTD表現
~~
~~
~ ~~
~~

### Page 12

12
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026年6月26日
技術分析
標普500指數 那斯達克指數 泛歐600指數 日經225指數
上海綜合指數 新興市場指數 黃金 西德州原油
附錄技術分析
60日線
◼ 現在指數: 7,357
◼ 60日均線: 7,250
◼ 現在指數: 1,756
◼ 60日均線: 1,666
◼ 現在指數: 4,020
◼ 60日均線: 4,516
◼ 現在指數: 25,358
◼ 60日均線: 25,202
◼ 現在指數: 69,998
◼ 60日均線: 62,462
◼ 現在指數: 640
◼ 60日均線: 619
◼ 現在指數: 4,087
◼ 60日均線: 4,053
◼ 現在指數: 71.2
◼ 60日均線: 93.6

### Page 13

13
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
1M 3M 1Y 3Y 7Y 20Y
2025/6/26
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026年6月26日
市場觀測
美國消費物價指數年增率(%) 美國10年期公債殖利率(%) 美國公債利差(bps) 美國公債殖利率曲線(%)
美元投資級公司債利差(%) 美元非投資等級債利差(%) 美元新興市場債利差(%) 美元亞洲非投資級債利差(%)
附錄市場觀測
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
9.0
10.0
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
10Y-3M
10Y-2Y
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
2026/6/26
2025/12/26
0
5
10
15
20
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026

2026/5/26
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
0
1
2
3
4
5
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026

### Page 14

14
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026年6月26日；*花旗經濟/通膨驚奇指數分別衡量經濟數據/實際通膨與市場預期落差，指數向上分別代表經濟好轉/通膨向上幅度超過市場預期
VIX指數 VIX期間結構 美國花旗經濟驚奇指數* 美國花旗通膨驚奇指數*
TED利差(bps) 美元指數 歐元兌美元 美元兌日圓
附錄市場觀測
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
1M 2M 3M 4M 5M 6M
0
15
30
45
60
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
-100
-50
0
50
100
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
5月26日
6月26日
0.90
0.95
1.00
1.05
1.10
1.15
1.20
1.25
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026

市場觀測
-0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026

### Page 15

15
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026年6月26日
美元兌新臺幣歷史走勢圖(日資料)
2005年以來美元兌新臺幣歷史資料
附錄市場觀測
美元兌新臺幣
30.91
30.51
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025
每日收盤價 近10年滾動平均 近20年平均
MIN：27.61
MAX：35.17
31.84

### Page 16

個別客戶因年齡、投資能力、金融商品交易經驗及風險承受度不同，適合之服務及/或金融商品亦有不同，應進一步與專屬理財業務人員進行評估。投資人應徹底瞭解相關服務及金融商品之風險 ，並審慎評估個人財力、資產狀況、
理財需求及風險承受能力，獨立判斷並自行決定是否投資及承擔有關風險。投資任何商品皆具有風險，商品以往之績效不保證未來之投資收益，本公司不負責商品之盈虧，也不保證最低之收益。
本公司保留對本文件及其內容之著作權及其他相關權利，任何人未經本公司同意，不得翻印或作其他任何用途使用(包括但不限於傳送或轉發予其他人士等)。如有違反情事，本公司除不負任何責任外，亦將對未經同意之使用與散布
等行為究責。
基金警語
投資一定有風險，基金投資有賺有賠，申購前應詳閱公開說明書
【信託產品投資須知及風險預告：（請投資人審慎評估下列各項條文內容）】
1. 基金（包括具有定期配息之基金）投資具投資風險，此一風險可能使信託本金發生全部虧損。
2. 基金委託人須自負盈虧，本公司受託投資不保本不保息，除盡善良管理人注意義務外，投資所可能產生的本金虧損、匯率損失、或基金解散、清算、移轉、合併等風險，均由委託人承擔。

3. 本公司受託投資之基金經金管會核准或同意生效，惟不表示絕無風險。基金經理公司以往之經理績效不保證基金之最低投資收益；基金經理公司除盡善良管理人之注意義務外，不負責基金之盈虧，亦不保證最低之收益，委託人
申購前應詳閱基金公開說明書。
4. 投資前應詳閱風險預告及各該基金公開說明書 ，確實作好財務規劃與風險評估 。本公司受託投資之基金已備有公開說明書 (或其中譯本)或投資人須知【前述文件併揭露有關基金應負擔之費用 (境外基金含分銷費用)】，委託人可
至本公司營業處所索取或至公開資訊觀測站、基金資訊觀測站或本公司網站下載。
5. 為保護既有投資人之權益，部份境外基金設有價格稀釋調整機制及公平市價規定，投資人申購前應詳閱基金公開說明書及投資人須知。
6. 委託人瞭解並同意受託人辦理特定金錢信託業務(即委託人委託投資基金)交易時，自交易相對人取得之報酬、費用、折讓等各項利益，得作為受託人收取之信託報酬；另委託人在持有基金期間 ，受託人仍持續收受經理費分成報
酬，委託人可至受託人(即本公司)網站 (https://www.kgi.com.tw/zh-tw/)查詢基金之通路報酬。其基金經理費率及其分成費率與其他通路報酬最新變動情形，亦可至該網站查詢。

7. 後收型基金在贖回時，基金公司將依持有期間長短收取不同比率之遞延申購手續費 ，該費用將自贖回總額中扣除；另後收型基金若有收取分銷費 ，則申購手續費雖可遞延收取，惟每年仍需支付0%~1.06%的分銷費（按基金日平
均淨資產價值計算），可能造成實際負擔費用增加（分銷費依各基金公司而有不同，請參考本公司後收型基金投資費用暨特約事項及各基金之投資人須知），另該費用已反映於每日基金淨值中，委託人無需額外支付。
8. 委託人之交易如經基金公司認定為短線交易者，基金公司或本公司可拒絕受理申請轉換或申購要求，並可請求支付一定比例之贖回費用或其他相關費用，費用標準均依各該基金公司之規定。
9. 委託人因不同時間進場，將有不同之投資績效，過去之績效亦不代表未來績效之保證。基金配息率不代表基金報酬率，且過去配息率不代表未來配息率；基金淨值可能因市場因素而上下波動，投資人於獲配息時，宜一併注意基
金淨值之變動。又投資新興市場可能比投資已開發國家有較大的價格波動及流動性較低的風險，委託人應慎選投資標的。
10. 部分基金可能持有衍生性商品部位，該部位可能超過基金淨資產價值之100%，並可能因而造成基金淨值高度波動及衍生其他風險。

11. 基金的配息可能由基金的收益或本金中支付。任何涉及由本金支出的部分，可能導致原始投資金額減損；且部分基金配息前未先扣除應負擔之費用。由本金支付配息之相關資料，投資人可至證券投資信託事業或總代理人之公司
網站查詢。
12. 非投資等級債券基金（本類基金主要係投資於非投資等級之高風險債券且配息來源可能為本金）（主要特色係投資前揭基金之組合基金亦同），適合能承受較高風險之『非保守型』委託人且不宜占投資組合過高的比重。由於非
投資等級債券之信用評等未達投資等級或未經信用評等，且對利率變動的敏感度甚高，可能會因利率上升、市場流動性下降，或債券發行機構違約不支付本金、利息或破產而蒙受虧損，不適合無法承擔相關風險之委託人；又如
係本國投信機構募集者，則可能投資於符合美國Rule 144A規定具有私募性質之債券，雖其投資總金額不得超過基金淨資產價值之百分之三十，然該債券具有債券發行人違約之信用風險、利率風險、流動性風險、交易對手風險
及因財務訊息揭露不完整或因價格不透明導致波動性較大之風險，投資人應審慎評估；另證券投資信託事業募集之債券型基金、平衡型基金、不動產證券化基金、以追蹤、模擬或複製標的指數表現之指數股票型基金（ETF）及

指數型基金或募集之基金投資新興市場國家債券達基金淨資產價值之百分之六十以上者，或有可能投資符合美國Rule 144A規定具有私募性質之債券，亦應留意相關風險。
13. 投資於中國之基金應遵守中華民國相關法令之規定：境外基金 (不含經金管會核准向證交所申請上市或交易之境外 ETF)如有投資大陸地區之有價證券者，以掛牌上市有價證券及銀行間債券市場為限 ，且投資前述有價證券總金額
不得超過該境外基金淨資產價值之百分之二十(境外基金機構依鼓勵境外基金深耕計畫向金管會申請並經認可者得適用鼓勵境外基金深耕計畫所列放寬前揭投資總金額上限至百分之四十之優惠措施 )；證券投資信託基金雖可投資
大陸地區之有價證券，惟仍應符合信託契約、公開說明書、證券投資信託基金管理辦法等相關規定及受到基金公司QFII額度之限制。又投資人須留意中國市場之政府政策、法令、會計稅務制度、經濟與市場等變動所可能產生之
投資風險。
14. 各基金於公開（含簡式）說明書或投資人須知揭露之風險報酬等級，係依據投信投顧公會「基金風險報酬等級分類標準」而訂定，本公司亦依據投信投顧公會「基金風險報酬等級分類標準」訂定基金產品風險等級。

富管理客服專線或透過財富管理客服信箱服務，查詢申訴案件處理進度。

---
## Document 316: Morning Report (2026-07-05)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Morning Report (2026-07-05).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

The volatility seen in the 
technology sector earlier 
this week persisted, 
continuing to drive sharp 
moves in equity markets. 
Fears of overcapacity in 
semiconductor manufacturing 
were again in the spotlight.
The latest non-farm 
payrolls were around half 
the consensus expectation. 
The figures challenged the 
narrative that the Fed remains 
on track to hike in the second 
half of this year.
Technology stocks fell 
sharply, the front end of the 
US Treasury curve shifted 
lower by about 4bp, and the 
DXY lost 0.5%. 
The mood was much more 
positive in Europe, but Asian 
markets underperformed. 
South Korea’s equity 
market, heavily driven by 
semiconductor giants, was 
down almost 8%. Japan’s 
Nikkei also suffered a 
significant loss, while the 
yen appreciated almost 1% 
as speculation increased that 
Japanese authorities might 
intervene in the market again.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:30am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night 
session). Source: Bloomberg. 
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 64.8 0.0% 30 day BBSY 4.36 0.00
AUD/USD 0.6923 0.4% 90 day BBSY 4.51 -0.01
AUD/JPY 111.53 -0.5% 180 day BBSY 4.82 -0.02
AUD/GBP 0.5188 -0.1% 1 year swap 4.52 -0.01
AUD/NZD 1.2143 0.0% 2 year swap 4.45 0.00
AUD/EUR 0.6055 -0.1% 3 year swap 4.40 -0.01
AUD/CNH 4.6994 0.3% 4 year swap 4.41 0.02
AUD/SGD 0.8943 0.1% 5 year swap 4.44 0.02
AUD/HKD 5.4306 0.4% 6 year swap 4.49 0.02
AUD/CAD 0.9818 0.2% 7 year swap 4.54 0.03
EUR/USD 1.1435 0.5% 8 year swap 4.60 0.03
USD/JPY 161.08 -0.9% 9 year swap 4.65 0.03
USD Index 100.87 -0.5% 10 year swap 4.70 0.03
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change
S&P/ASX 200 8,724 0.0% Australia
S&P 500 7,483 0.0% 3 year bond 4.44 0.02
Japan Nikkei 68,733 -2.5% 10 year bond 4.82 0.03
Hang Seng 23,055 0.8% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 6,360 1.2% 3-month T Bill 3.67 -0.02
UK FTSE100 10,653 1.7% 2 year bond 4.14 -0.04
VIX Index 16.15 -2.7% 10 year bond 4.48 0.00
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 2.90 0.03
CRB Index 353.03 -0.2% Japan 2.79 0.07
Gold 4122.41 2.3% UK 4.78 0.02
Copper 13326 0.2%
Oil (WTI futures) 68.69 0.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 242.00 0.0% 10 yr bond 4.85 -0.01
Coal (thermal) 130.10 -0.2% 3 yr bond 4.41 -0.02
Iron Ore 97.75 0.7% 3 mth bill rate 4.51 0.00
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,762 0.6%

### Page 2

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
The volatility seen in the technology sector earlier this week
persisted, continuing to drive sharp moves in equity markets.
Fears of overcapacity in semiconductor manufacturing were
again in the spotlight. Investors were also disappointed by

the flow of US economic data. The latest non-farm payrolls
print was around half the consensus expectation. The figures
challenged the narrative that the Fed remains on track to hike
the fed funds rate in the second half of this year.
• Ahead of the Independence Day long weekend, US equity
markets were mixed. Technology stocks fell sharply, with
the Semiconductor Index down more than 5% following a
6.4% fall the previous day. However, rotation away from the

tech sector and expectations of relatively looser financial
conditions if the Fed does not proceed with previously
expected policy tightening supported gains in other corners
of equity markets. Overall, that left the S&P 500 unchanged.
• The mood was much more positive in Europe, where equity
markets are less concentrated in the technology sector.
Industrials and defence stocks, in particular, outperformed,
leaving the Euro Stoxx 50 up 1.2%. In Asia, South Korea’s

market, which is heavily driven by semiconductor giants, was
down almost 8%. Japan’s Nikkei also suffered a significant
loss of 2.5%.
• Weaker US labour market conditions were the main driver
of government bond markets. The front end of the US
Treasury curve shifted lower by about 4bp, and the market
is now pricing in around one fed funds rate hike before
the end of the year, down from one and a half previously.
Longer-dated US government bonds were little changed, but

European bonds underperformed, with 10Y Gilt and Bund
yields increasing 2bp and 3bp, respectively. Losses were
even steeper at the long end of the JGB curve, reflecting
broadening inflation momentum and expectations of a
relatively slow pace of BoJ policy tightening. The 20Y JGB
yield was up 9bp. Australian yields followed similar patterns
to those seen across Europe and Asia, with the 10Y rising
3bp to 4.82%.
• In FX markets, the DXY lost 0.5%, its worst daily result since

the end of April, dipping to 100.87. The EUR and GBP gained
by similar amounts. The Japanese yen appreciated almost 1%
to 161.08. Speculation increased that Japanese authorities
might intervene in the market again, with some reports
suggesting that any intervention is more likely to occur
unexpectedly, without warning signs from officials. The AUD
underperformed, appreciating 0.4%.
• In the commodity space, oil prices held broadly steady
following declines over the prior couple of days. The levels

of $68.7 for the WTI August contract and $71.6 for the
Brent September futures contract were around the lowest
since the Middle East war began, continuing to suggest that
progress in US-Iran talks is whittling away the remaining risk
premium. Reports suggested that crude exports from Saudi
Arabia are picking up quickly and may already be around
90% of pre-conflict levels. Among other commodities, gold
rose 2.3%, supported by weaker US labour market data.

Copper was little changed, despite the semiconductor sell-
off. Iron ore prices rose 0.7%, as reports suggested that
China is restricting imports from Fortescue – a significant
escalation in the dispute over long-term supply contracts.
International Data
US nonfarm payrolls disappointed expectations in June, with
only 57k jobs created in the month and April-May payrolls
revised down by a combined 74k. The three-month average is
now 111k, down from a revised 164k in May. The employment

measure from the household survey was much weaker,
declining by 507k in June and averaging a fall of 195k over the
past three months. Continuing the trend of the past eighteen
months, the participation rate fell to 61.5% in June. Had the
participation rate held steady instead of falling by 1.1ppts
since January 2025, the unemployment rate would be above
5.0%, rather than the published 4.2%. Average hourly earnings
growth remains benign for policy at 0.3%mth, 3.5%yr. Initial

jobless claims were unchanged last week at 215k.
US factory orders fell 1.3% in May, partly reversing April’s
upwardly revised 5.3%mth gain. Core goods orders were a
touch softer than initially reported, at 1.4%mth.
The euro area unemployment rate edged down to 6.2% in
May after four months at 6.3%, suggesting that labour market
conditions remain tight and stable.
Local Data
Australian trade data remained volatile amid sizeable swings
in non-monetary gold flows, volatility in iron ore exports,

elevated fuel imports amid global energy supply constraints,
and a rapid increase in imports of components for data-centre
fit outs (see here).
In New Zealand, despite dropping back in May, dwelling
consent issuance remains firm. Looking ahead, the easing in
global headwinds is welcome news, but costs are still rising
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:00 NZ ANZ Consumer Confidence Jun - 86.5pts
10:30 JP S&P Global Services PMI Jun Final - 51.8pts

11:45 CN RatingDog Composite PMI Jun - 54pts
11:45 CN RatingDog Services PMI Jun 53pts 54.4pts
18:00 EZ S&P Global Services PMI Jun Final 48.9pts 48.9pts
18:30 GB S&P Services PMI Jun Final 48.8pts 48.7pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise
specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Mantas Vanagas
Senior Economist, Westpac Group

P: +61 422  030 326
E: mantas.vanagas@westpac.com.au

### Page 3

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

### Page 4

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

### Page 5

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

---
## Document 319: MSCI Accessibility Review 2026 (2026-06-22)

Source PDF: all report pdf/MSCI Accessibility Review 2026 (2026-06-22).pdf
Report source: KBSV (Thematic)
Date: 2026-06-22
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1

F I R S T  T O  M A R K E T

MSCI Accessibility Review 2026 
Chưa có điểm cộng, cần thêm thời gian thực hiện 
 Tóm tắt nội dung báo cáo của MSCI 
Rạng sáng 19/06/2026, MSCI đã công bố Báo cáo Đánh giá Khả năng Tiếp cận Thị trường 
2026 của 79 thị trường chứng khoán toàn cầu với tất cả 18 tiêu chí định tính. Đối với Việt 
Nam, 2 điểm đáng chú ý:

- MSCI ghi nhận thêm một số tiến triển trong quá trình cải cách thị trường như ghi 
nhận Việt Nam có thúc đẩy chương trình cải cách thị trường vốn, ứng dụng mô 
hình global broker, chuẩn bị go-live CCP, có tiến triển trong việc công bố thông 
tin bằng tiếng Anh, và một số định hướng nới lỏng room ngoại tại 1 số ngành.

- Dù vậy, toàn bộ 18 tiêu chí định tính đánh giá khả năng tiếp cận thị trường giữ 
nguyên so với kỳ đánh giá trước. Trong đó, 8 tiêu chí vẫn ở mức cần cải thiện, bao 
gồm: giới hạn sở hữu nước ngoài, room ngoại, quyền bình đẳng của nhà đầu tư 
nước ngoài, ngoại hối, công bố thông tin, thanh toán/bù trừ, cho vay chứng 
khoán và bán khống.

Quan điểm của KBSV  
Chúng tôi xin lưu ý rằng Việt Nam không nhất thiết phải đáp ứng được đủ 18 tiêu chí theo 
MSCI yêu cầu để được nâng hạng. Trên thực tế, phần lớn các thị trường mới nổi đều có 
trung bình từ 3-4 tiêu chí cần cải thiện (bị đánh dấu “-”), cá biệt nhiều thị trường đang 
được xếp hạng mới nổi còn nhiều tiêu chí cần cải thiện có Ấn Độ (7 tiêu chí), Trung Quốc 
A- Share (6 tiêu chí), Saudi Arabia và Brazil (cùng 5 tiêu chí) ...

Chúng tôi cho rằng TTCK Việt Nam có rất ít khả năng sẽ được nâng hạng ngay tại kỳ review 
tháng 6 (công bố vào 24/6/2026). Nguyên nhân là do Việt Nam bị giữ nguyên đánh giá từ 
tháng 6/2025 đến nay cho bộ 18 tiêu chí, bao gồm các tiêu chí trọng yếu mà hầu hết các 
thị trường mới nổi đều đã vượt qua như Clearing & Settlement (chờ đợi mô hình CCP hoàn 
thiện), FX liberalization, foreign room. Thay vào đó, khả năng Việt Nam được đưa vào 
nhóm cân nhắc nâng hạng nhiều khả năng sẽ rơi vào 2027, khi mà Chính phủ, Ủy ban 
Chứng khoán Nhà nước và các cơ quan liên quan đã đẩy nhanh nhiều cải cách trọng yếu, 
và được MSCI cũng như nhiều quỹ đầu tư nước ngoài công nhận.

Tác động đối với TTCK 
Áp lực chốt lời ngắn hạn có thể xuất hiện tại các nhóm cổ phiếu đã tăng theo kỳ vọng 
nâng hạng. Tuy nhiên, kết quả này không phủ nhận lộ trình nâng hạng trung hạn, do các 
cải cách trọng yếu vẫn đang được triển khai và một tổ chức khác là FTSE đã xác nhận 
nâng hạng Việt Nam từ tháng 9/2026.

### Page 2

2

Biểu đồ 1. Tiêu chí đánh giá của MSCI với các thị trường cận biên

Frontier Markets - EMEA Frontier Markets - Asia Pacific 
  Mauritius Morocco Oman Serbia Tunisia WAEMU Bangladesh Pakistan 
Sri 
Lanka Vietnam 
Openness to foreign ownership             
Investor qualification 
requirement ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ + ++ 
Foreign ownership limit (FOL) 
level ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ - 
Foreign room level ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ - 
Equal rights to foreign 
investors ++ + + + + + ++ + + - 
Ease of capital inflows / 
outflows             
Capital flow restriction level ++ + ++ + ++ ++ + - ++ ++ 
Foreign exchange market 
liberalization level - + + + + + - - - - 
Efficiency of the operational framework            
Market entry             
Investor registration & 
account set up ++ ++ + - ++ + - + - + 
Market organization             
Market regulations ++ + ++ ++ + + ++ + ++ + 
Information flow ++ + ++ + - - ++ ++ ++ - 
Market infrastructure             
Clearing and Settlement + - + - - - - - + - 
Custody ++ ++ ++ ++ + ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ 
Registry / Depository ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ 
Trading - + ++ + - - - + - ++ 
Transferability - - - - - - + ++ - + 
Stock lending - - - - - - - - - - 
Short selling - - - - - - - - - - 
Availability of Investment 
Instruments ++ ++ ++ + ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ ++ 
Stability of institutional 
framework + + + + - - - - + +

Nguồn: MSCI, KBSV tổng hợp

### Page 3

Hệ thống khuyến nghị

Hệ thống khuyến nghị đầu tư ngành 
(dựa trên kỳ vọng tăng giá tuyệt đối trong 6 tháng tới)  
Tích cực: 
Vượt trội hơn thị trường 
Trung lập: 
Phù hợp thị trường 
Tiêu cực: 
Kém hơn thị trường

CTCP CHỨNG KHOÁN KB VIỆT NAM (KBSV)

Trụ sở chính: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 16&17, Tháp 2, Tòa nhà Capital Place, số 29 Liễu Giai, Ba Đình, Hà Nội 
Điện thoại: (+84) 24 7303 5333 - Fax: (+84) 24 3776 5928 
Chi nhánh Hà Nội: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 1, Tòa nhà VP , số 5 Điện Biên Phủ, Quận Ba Đình, Hà Nội 
Điện thoại: (+84) 24 7305 3335 - Fax: (+84) 24 3822 3131 
Chi nhánh Hồ Chí Minh: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 2, TNR Tower Nguyễn Công Trứ, 180-192 Nguyễn Trứ, Q1, TP Hồ Chí Minh 
Điện thoại: (+84) 28 7303 5333 - Fax: (+84) 28 3914 1969 
Chi nhánh Sài Gòn: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 1, Saigon Trade Center, 37 Tôn Đức Thắng, Phường Bến Nghé, Q1, Hồ Chí Minh 
Điện thoại: (+84) 28 7306 3338 - Fax: (+84) 28 3910 1611

LIÊN HỆ 
Trung Tâm Khách hàng Tổ chức: (+84) 28 7303 5333 – Ext: 2656 
Trung Tâm Khách hàng Cá nhân: (+84) 24 7303 5333 – Ext: 2276 
Email: ccc@kbsec.com.vn 
Website: www.kbsec.com.vn

---
## Document 327: OPEC 6月产量暴增234万桶_日，原油市场重回“供应过剩”交易

Source PDF: all report pdf/OPEC 6月产量暴增234万桶_日，原油市场重回“供应过剩”交易.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-07-03
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

霍尔⽊兹海峡流量恢复， OPEC 组织 6 ⽉产量增加 234 万桶 / ⽇，⾄ 1875 万桶 / ⽇，增量主要
来⾃科威特，沙特阿拉伯和伊朗，产量仍低于战前⽔平。⽯油消费疲软叠加供应回升，部
分市场已出现供应过剩。布伦特原油期货周五交投于每桶 72 美元附近，抹去战时涨幅。
摘要：
OPEC 上⽉原油产量⼤幅回升，核⼼原因是波斯湾成员国在美伊达成和平协议后，恢复经霍尔⽊
兹海峡的出⼝。
据彭博， OPEC 组织 6 ⽉产量增加 234 万桶 / ⽇，⾄ 1875 万桶 / ⽇，增量主要来⾃科威特，沙特阿拉
伯和伊朗。不过，产量仍显著低于战前⽔平。
⽬前⽯油消费疲软叠加供应回升，部分市场已出现供应过剩。布伦特原油期货周五交投于每桶
72 美元附近，抹去战时涨幅。
包括俄罗斯在内的更⼴泛 OPEC+ 联盟中，主要成员将于周⽇举⾏⽉度视频会议，讨论下⽉产量
限制，市场预期其可能继续推进⼩幅增产。
产量仍显著低于战前⽔平
尽管单⽉增幅可观， OPEC 整体产量距战前⽔平仍有相当⼤差距。经剔除阿联酋退出因素后调

整，该组织 6 ⽉产量较 2 ⽉⽔平仍低 730 万桶 / ⽇，降幅达 28% 。
霍尔⽊兹海峡在冲突初期⼀度⼤范围封闭，波斯湾产油国此前已陆续摸索出绕道运输的途径。
美伊协议落地后，公开过境通道得以全⾯恢复，油轮追踪数据显⽰沙特⽯油出货量已恢复⾄正
常⽔平的 90% 。
科威特领涨，伊朗原油积压海上
分国别来看，科威特 6 ⽉增幅居于 OPEC 11 个成员国之⾸，产量跃升 87 万桶 / ⽇⾄ 136 万桶 / ⽇。
该国产量此前曾因冲突削减约⼋成，⽬前仍显著低于正常⽔平。
沙特阿拉伯以 55 万桶 / ⽇的增量位居第⼆， 6 ⽉⽇均产量升⾄ 720 万桶；伊朗增幅 51 万桶 / ⽇，⽇
均产量达 285 万桶。值得注意的是，伊朗⽬前正⾯临买家难觅的困境，⼤量原油积压于海上浮式
储油油轮，尚待出售。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
25 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
产量格局之外， OPEC 内部政治分歧同样不容忽视。阿联酋已于 5 ⽉正式退出 OPEC ，此举赋予
其在海峡局势完全稳定后⾃由提产的空间。伊拉克亦⼀度扬⾔，若最终未能获得组织分配的更
⾼产量配额，不排除退出可能。
OPEC+8 ⽉预计继续⼩幅增产
包括俄罗斯在内的 OPEC+ 主要成员国将于周⽇举⾏⽉度视频会议，讨论未来⼀个⽉的产量政
策。
这⼀由七个主要产油国组成的⼩组，在战争期间已宣布多轮规模较⼩、象征性的增产计划，以
延续⼏年前启动、理论上恢复此前减产规模的进程。
两位代表本周表⽰，预计 8 ⽉还将宣布每⽇增加 18.8 万桶配额，这将是该恢复计划倒数第⼆个阶
段。
在联盟其他成员⽅⾯，俄罗斯原油出⼝在乌克兰袭击其国内炼⼚后升⾄纪录⾼位，因⽆法在国
内加⼯的原油被转⽽出⼝，进⼀步为全球供应增添压⼒。

限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 337: Preview of RBNZ July 2026 Monetary Policy Review (2026-07-01)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Preview of RBNZ July 2026 Monetary Policy Review (2026-07-01).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-07-01
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
Westpac New Zealand Economics
Keep calm and focus on the data
• We expect the RBNZ to leave the OCR at 2.25%
at the 8 July Review.
• Much has changed over the past six weeks.
Therefore, while three MPC members had
voted for a rate hike in May, we think the
“on hold” decision may well be reached
by consensus.
• Forward guidance should remain consistent
with a lift in the OCR this year. However,
the message is expected to be more
data dependent than came across at the

May Statement.
• The press release will likely reaffirm that
the timing of OCR increases will depend
on what data and other developments
suggest about the outlook for medium-term
inflation pressures.
Official Cash Rate forecasts
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028
%%
RBNZ May 2026 MPS
Market pricing 30 Jun 2026
Westpac forecast
Sources: Bloomberg, RBNZ, Westpac
Forecasts
“ What we’re saying is it’s likely we’ll see OCR hikes

at coming meetings, but we’re not being, you know,
exact... how much and at what meeting because we
will consider, you know, the incoming data and how
the inflation outlook evolves. So, if we see oil prices
falling really much more than expected, if we see
much much weaker growth, then we may not hike.”
–  Governor Anna Breman, Heather du Plessis-Allan
Drive interview, 27 May 2026
RBNZ decision and communication.
We expect the OCR to remain at 2.25% at next week’s

8 July policy meeting. A tightening bias will remain in place
that will be explicitly data dependent. In determining
when that bias might be acted upon, key factors cited will
be the extent of second round pricing pressures, wages
pressures and evidence of increasing medium to long
term inflation expectations. Evidence that the economic
recovery is resuming and the output gap narrowing would
also prompt policy tightening at some stage, as was the

RBNZ’s forecast in the February Statement. The language
ECONOMIC BULLETIN
Preview of RBNZ July 2026 Monetary Policy
Review (Wednesday 8 July, NZT 2pm).
30 Jun 2026 |  Westpac Economics Team | westpac.co.nz/economics | economics@westpac.co.nz
Kelly Eckhold, Chief Economist | +64 9 348 9382 | +64 21 786 758 | kelly.eckhold@westpac.co.nz

### Page 2

2
Westpac New Zealand Economics
pointing to OCR increases as likely in coming meetings
could be kept but with a more explicit rider that these are
conditional on evidence warranting those increases.
While three MPC members voted for a rate hike in May, the
significant developments over the past six weeks make it
quite possible that a vote is not required on this occasion.
It would be perfectly reasonable for those previously
hawkish members to change their view given the relatively

quick resolution of the Iran tensions have caught most if
not all commentators by surprise. Data dependence is a
virtue not a failing in a well-functioning MPC.
Should a vote be needed, then we expect only a small
minority of external members to support an OCR increase
in July. We don’t think any of the doves from the May
meeting will want to join the hawkish group. There is also
a strong prospect that the hawks from last time will be
happy to review the key data that will be released in the

week’s that follow the July meeting and raise the case for
an OCR rise at the September meeting, should that data
support that stance.
The discussion will aim to redirect market attention
on upcoming data to justify future OCR hikes. Markets
became unduly fixated on a July hike after the May
meeting and saw it as relatively independent of incoming
data and developments in the Middle East, which was
unfortunate. We expect the MPC to take the opportunity

to correct that impression.
Prospects for a normalisation of the OCR will remain a
feature of the RBNZ’s communication. But we expect
the Bank to shift the frame of reference towards the
view the MPC held pre-war. This envisaged a single OCR
hike no sooner than the end of this year. As inflation is
still higher than anticipated back in February, we think
they will signal bringing forward of the date of lift off in
the OCR to September but suggest a gradual trajectory

from there if second-round inflation pressures from the
Middle East supply shock remain in check. The option of
consecutive increases in the OCR from September might
still be a possibility but would not be presented as base
case and would be dependent on data warranting a less
gradual cadence of OCR increases. We don’t expect the
MPC to present a September OCR increase as a given. A
slow bounce back of economic activity and evidence of
weak underlying inflation pressures in the June quarter

CPI could justify delaying to December and thus moving
the RBNZ’s stance all the way back to that communicated
in the February 2026 Statement. Reintroducing data
dependence into the MPC’s future decision-making
framework will aim to preserve the option to push the
tightening cycle back to December should data suggest
that appropriate.
We expect market pricing to take a bit more out of the
amount of tightening expected for 2026 and move to
a situation where markets price between one and two

25 bp increases by year end. From there the data will
determine how market pricing evolves.
Arguments in favour of a hike.
The most prominent argument we have heard among
market participants expecting a July hike is that this
was more-or-less promised in the May Statement. It’s
certainly the case that the RBNZs Q3 2026 assumption of
an average OCR of 2.51% is most consistent with a July
hike and for some members a July hike may have been
the presumption in the absence of a marked change in

the inflation outlook. But we certainly don’t agree that a
hike was in any way promised.
The Governor described OCR increases “in coming
meetings”, which was deliberately and appropriately
vague given the uncertain nature of the environment.
The quote we included on the front page of this note
illustrates the conditionality of the policy outlook. The
Governor explicitly noted in a radio interview after the
May meeting that “… if we see oil prices falling really

much more than expected, if we see much much weaker
growth, then we may not hike”. And in various speaking
engagements the Governor has referred to a desire to
see evidence of second-round pricing dynamics, rising
wage pressures and increasing inflation expectations to
confirm that any earlier hike in the OCR was necessary.
No such evidence has accumulated since May. Similarly,
in her public appearances, Assistant Governor Silk has
noted that all options were on the table for the July

meeting, including a “hold”. We think that the near
$30/ bbl decline in oil prices since the May meeting was
probably beyond even the most optimistic scenario that
Silk might have envisaged when she made that comment.
NZD Trade Weighted Index
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26 Jul-26
IndexIndex
RBNZ May MPS assumption
Daily
Source: Bloomberg, RBNZ
Another argument is the weakening in the exchange
rate in the face of wide interest rate differentials. It is

the case that the US dollar has been stronger since the
FOMC shifted towards a tightening bias at their last
meeting. Similarly, the Reserve Bank of Australia Board
sent a message in their last meeting that cash rate
increases were still possible. The associated weakening
in the NZD has added to inflation pressures. But it’s still
unclear how persistent these will prove to be in much the
same way we don’t know how persistent energy related
costs pressures will be. More generally the weaker NZD

is a positive economic influence as it is assisting the
competitive parts of the economy that are the key drivers

### Page 3

3
Westpac New Zealand Economics
of economic recovery. It’s also useful additional pressure
on less competitive parts of the economy to adjust (for
example import demand, the construction and real
estate sectors). The risks of FX depreciation are more
likely better managed by retaining the view that the OCR
will eventually need to return to developed country norm
levels, adjusted for risk premia, as opposed to justify what
might be premature OCR increases.

The resolution of at least some of the uncertainty
associated with the Iran war will be a fillip to growth in the
second half of 2026. The RBNZ has modest expectations
for Q3 GDP (0.2% growth) that should be revised higher.
Similarly, forecasts for later quarters could be revised
higher in line with the stronger anticipated terms of trade
now energy prices are lower. Business and consumer
confidence, along with housing market prospects,
should bounce as the Iran war uncertainty is reduced.

Indeed, there is some evidence of this in today’s monthly
business confidence survey that shows general business
confidence rising in June. We think there is some merit
to these arguments. But importantly it seems very
unlikely that future upgrades to the growth outlook will
be sufficient to restore the RBNZ’s February Statement
growth outlook, when recall the RBNZ forecast no more
than one 25bp hike in the OCR this year. Today’s business
survey also shows that its very much early days in the

business sector recovery given that backward looking
measures of activity suggest still weakening growth
momentum. Also the level of business confidence, while
higher than that seen in May, is some distance below
the levels seen in early 2926, when the RBNZ saw OCR
increases coming at the end of 2026.
Arguments in favour of no change.
No further evidence on second round inflation
impacts, rising wages pressures or increasing inflation
expectations has accumulated since the May meeting.

Indeed, short term inflation expectations appear to have
reduced in business and consumer surveys as energy
prices have fallen and will likely continue to decline if
current energy price levels are sustained. Westpac’s
employment confidence survey shows a still fragile
labour market that seems unlikely to support upward
pressure on wages.
Dubai oil prices
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2015 2018 2021 2024 2027
Daily prices
RBNZ May MPS

Westpac NZ updated
assumption
Sources: Bloomberg, RBNZ, Westpac
USD / barrel USD / barrel
The Iran war has resolved (at least for now) unexpectedly
quickly. A $30/bbl decline in oil prices is big news,
sufficient to change the medium-term outlook, just as a
$30/bbl increase was on the way up. With oil and refined
fuels prices now well below the levels assumed in prior
forecasts (including the RBNZ’s May forecasts), forecasts
of peak and end year inflation are being revised lower.

For example, Westpac now sees CPI inflation peaking
a quarter earlier in the June quarter at 4% and ending
2026 at 3.5%. The risks of prolonged inflation dynamics
– such as those that had clearly bothered MPC member
Prasanna Gai – taking hold must have a much lower
probability now compared to that contemplated back in
May. Similarly risks to inflation expectations have reduced.
Importantly, further key information will be available
soon. The June quarter CPI (released 21 July) will show

how widespread inflation pressures are. The monthly
indicators provide little insight but to the extent they do,
they have shown less inflation than previously feared. The
June quarter QSBO will be available in a week and will
similarly provide indicators on businesses’ pricing and
margins as well as activity indicators. The June quarter
labour market reports due early August will shed light on
the strength of the labour market and wage pressures.

The best measures of inflation expectations are also
available in August. This avalanche of relevant data
scheduled between the July and September meetings
always made a July hike a courageous move. With the
sharp decline in energy prices significantly reducing the
merit of pre-emptive action we suspect even the hawkish
MPC members will now be content to see what this
data reveals.
Businesses inflation expectation and pricing intentions
0
1
2
3
4

5
6
7
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2018 2020 2022 2024 2026
%Net %
Share of businesses
planning on raising prices
(right axis)
Expected inflation - one
year ahead (left axis)
Source: ANZ
Start of Middle
East conflict
Activity data seemingly confirm a stagnant economy in
the June quarter. Most indicators suggest little growth
occurred in the June quarter, hence the output gap
should have widened. Q1 GDP data was pretty much
in line with RBNZ views once revisions are considered

(the economy was just 0.1% larger than assumed in the
May MPS).
It’s also useful to remember that global views on the need
for interest rate increases have generally pulled back
noticeably (with the key exception of the United States).
Market pricing of the expected change in 90-day rates

### Page 4

4
Westpac New Zealand Economics
in the coming 2 years has pulled back across most peer
economies with the adjustment to Australasian interest
rate expectations being greater than for most. We note
that the Bank of Canada remains cool on the potential
for interest rate increases this year. This is interesting
as Canada seems to be the closest comparator to
New Zealand in that both countries are operating
with a negative output gap and have similar monetary

policy frameworks.
Change in the 3 mth rate 2 years ahead relative to February
UK Europe Canada Australia New Zealand
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0 %%
March April May June
2026
Sources: Macrobond, Bloomberg, Westpac
Scenarios.
More hawkish and dovish possibilities exist including:
• A hawkish scenario where the OCR is increased and
language suggesting the RBNZs views haven’t shifted

much. Markets would rationally assume at least 3,
possibly 4 hikes in aggregate for 2026. We see this as
implausible and assign a 10% probability to it.
• A dovish scenario that seriously questions a hike before
December. The forward guidance could be omitted
noting that inflation risks seem much less prominent
relative to the still large level of excess capacity.
Evidence of strong core inflation and broadening
second-round inflation pressures would need to be

seen to justify a lift in the OCR, and the statement
could note that such evidence is lacking at this stage.
The February MPS forecasts could be explicitly referred
to as being nearer to the MPC’s current frame of
reference. This is more plausible and we attach a 30%
probability to this scenario.
Kelly’s take.
This is an easy decision. While I advocated for an increase
in May, there seems much to be gained from waiting to
see the outcome of the June quarter CPI. Certainly, the

risks of prolonged second-round price impacts are lower
than thought earlier given the Iran conflict seems to have
resolved much sooner than expected and energy prices
have declined far sooner than expected.
Higher interest rates are in prospect in time. But the
urgency to begin the process now when such critical
evidence is available just around the corner is gone.
I suspect a gradual approach of 25bp increases in
September and December should prove sufficient for

now. The economy will continue to recover through the
second half of the year, calling for a return of the OCR to
hopefully not much higher than neutral levels (in the high
3s in my view) next year.
I see the risk that the exchange rate will depreciate further
over the balance of the year given steep negative interest
rate differentials. But if this occurs, this will aid the
needed rebalancing of the economy. The market needs
to be reminded of the importance of data dependence in

determining future OCR adjustments.

### Page 5

Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, the forecasts
may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from these forecasts.
Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141
(including where acting under any of its Westpac, St George,
Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).

References to the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and
its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know.
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand
Privacy Policy here, or the Australian Group Privacy
Statement here. Each time someone visits our site, data is
captured so that we can accurately evaluate the quality of our
content and make improvements for you. We may at times

use technology to capture data about you to help us to better
understand you and your needs, including potentially for
the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other
reading material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is
under copyright of the Westpac Group. None of the material,
nor its contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way,

transmitted to, copied of distributed to any other party without
the prior written permission of the Westpac Group.

reflect any recommendation or financial advice and investment
decisions should not be based on it. This information does not
constitute an offer, a solicitation of an offer, or an inducement

to subscribe for, purchase or sell any financial instrument or
to enter into a legally binding contract. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared
without taking into account your objectives, financial situation
or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions,
including those involving futures, options and high yield
securities give rise to substantial risk and are not suitable

material. Although we have made every effort to ensure this
information is free from error, none of Westpac or its related
entities warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of
this information, or otherwise endorses it in any way. Except
where contrary to law, Westpac Group intend by this notice to
exclude liability for this information. This information is subject
to change without notice and none of Westpac or its related

entities is under any obligation to update this information
or correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a
later date. This information may contain or incorporate by
reference forward looking statements. The words “believe”,
“anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”,
“assume”, “positioned”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk”
and other similar expressions that are predictions of or indicate

### Page 6

a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts
of future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken
to ensure that the assumptions on which any forecasts are
based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by
incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and
uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ substantially
from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may

act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker,
underwriter, distributor, swap counterparty and calculation
agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial instrument,
giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact
the performance of a financial instrument. The Westpac Group
may at any time transact or hold a position (including hedging
and trading positions) for its own account or the account of
a client in any financial instrument which may impact the

that (a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be,
directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material
accurately reflects his/her personal views about the financial
products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on
sources reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c)
to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in receipt
of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has
made any attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability-
related content: This material may contain statements
relating to environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics.
These are subject to known and unknown risks, and there are
significant uncertainties, limitations, risks and assumptions in
the metrics, modelling, data, scenarios, reporting and analysis

completeness or reliability of the information. There is a risk
that the analysis, estimates, judgements, assumptions, views,
models, scenarios or projections used may turn out to be
incorrect. These risks may cause actual outcomes to differ
materially from those expressed or implied. The ESG-related
statements in this material do not constitute advice, nor are
they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services
Licence (No. 233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial
Services Guide here or request a copy from your Westpac
point of contact. To the extent that this information contains
any general advice, it has been prepared without taking into
account your objectives, financial situation or needs and
before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of
the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank

refers to the brand under which products and services
are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac
New Zealand Limited (company number 1763882), the
New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac (“WNZL ”).
Any product or service made available by WNZL does not
represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL
in respect of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable

Singapore laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this
material in Singapore should contact Westpac Singapore
Branch in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection
with, this material. Westpac Singapore Branch holds a
wholesale banking licence and is subject to supervision by the
Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services
for Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com. fj
© Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This

information does not take your personal circumstances
into account and before acting on it you should consider
the appropriateness of the information for your financial
situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is
incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in
Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the
products and services for Westpac PNG are available from
www. westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation

ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not take your
personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information
for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is
represented in Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG -
Limited. The liability of its members is limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as

Comptroller of the Currency. Westpac is also registered with
the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as
a Swap Dealer, but is neither registered as, or affiliated with,
a Futures Commission Merchant registered with the US CFTC.
The services and products referenced above are not insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Westpac
Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S. Securities

Exchange Act of 1934 (‘the Exchange Act’) and member
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (‘FINRA’). In

accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM

### Page 7

7
Westpac New Zealand Economics
other than as provided for in certain legal agreements between
Westpac and WCM and obligations of WCM do not represent
liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S.
institutional investors in reliance on the exemption from
registration provided by Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act
and is not subject to all of the independence and disclosure
standards applicable to debt research reports prepared

for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the U.S.
distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility
for the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S.
customers of any securities referenced herein should be
effected through WCM. All disclaimers set out with respect
to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If you would like to speak
to someone regarding any security mentioned herein, please
contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any non-U.S.

securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of
non-U.S. issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to
the regulations of, the SEC in the United States. Information
on such non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments
may be limited. Non-U.S. companies may not be subject to
audit and reporting standards and regulatory requirements
comparable to those in effect in the United States. The value

of any investment or income from any securities or related
derivative instruments denominated in a currency other than
U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from
such securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac
and is not registered or qualified as a research analyst,
representative, or associated person of WCM or any other

self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or regulations
of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ
from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is
subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)

and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register
number: 124586). The London branch of Westpac is registered
at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent
of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch by the PRA are
available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to,
and must not be passed on to, the general public in the United
Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to

and is directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition
of Investment Professionals (set out in Article 19(5) of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion)
Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those persons falling within
the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in
accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may

otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being
referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a
relevant person should not act or rely on this communication
or any of its contents. In the same way, the information
contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the
rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for
“retail clients”. Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing

on the information in this communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may
be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii)
Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing
arrangement. WEG has not edited or otherwise modified the
content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject
to its regulation. WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin and

the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’). WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of
the local court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number
HRB 118483. In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard
222 ‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not
stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain legal
agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral
agreement) between Westpac and WEG and obligations of

WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac. Any product or
service made available by WEG does not represent an offer
from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally
to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or
use by any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country
where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law
or regulation.
This communication contains general commentary, research,

and market colour. The communication does not constitute
investment advice. The material may contain an ‘investment

recommendation’ and/or ‘information recommending or
suggesting an investment’, both as defined in Regulation (EU)
No 596/2014 (including as applicable in the United Kingdom)
(“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant provisions of MAR,
reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the material has
been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts of
interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to
which that information relates have been disclosed.

fulfils certain additional information requirements of MAR
and associated delegated legislation and by accepting this
communication you acknowledge that you are aware of the
existence of such additional disclosure and its contents.
To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent
research. It has not been prepared in accordance with legal
requirements designed to promote the independence of

investment research and therefore constitutes a marketing
communication. Further, this communication is not subject
to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

### Page 8

Westpac Banking Corporation.

---
## Document 346: RBA Minutes and other commentary_ still on edge about inflation (2026-07-06)

Source PDF: all report pdf/RBA Minutes and other commentary_ still on edge about inflation (2026-07-06).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-07-06
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#australia #luciellis #fx #interestrates#rba
RBA Minutes and other commentary: still on edge about inflation
By Matthew Hassan
Head of Australian Macro-Forecasting, Westpac
17:56 June 30 2026 Share
RBA Minutes released today and other commentary over the last week suggest the
Monetary Policy Board is still on edge about inflation risks in Australia.
RBA Minutes reprise the ‘hawkish hold’ message from June’s decision statement.
Some notable observations on housing and data centre build but central narrative unchanged.

### Page 2

The advent of post-meeting media conferences means the minutes to RBA meetings are of less
importance than they once were. However, they still serve to remind us of the key considerations for
policy. Read alongside last week’s speech by the Deputy Governor and a series of RBA insight notes,
the latest Minutes suggest the Bank is still on heightened inflation alert.
The central narrative through the meeting Minutes is, unsurprisingly, the same as that set out in the

decision statement and in the Governor’s post-meeting press conference. The economy is still seen as
tight, i.e. “operating with excess demand and widespread inflationary pressures”. However, the Board
opted to use the ‘space’ provided by previous rate rises, pausing in June to get a better sense of how
the situation was unfolding in the Middle East and how previous rate rises were impacting locally.
There were some interesting titbits in the detail though, including:

While neither topic is a central concern for the Board right now, they are on the radar.
Also of some note were the areas where views within the Board differed. In particular, there were
“somewhat differing views about the extent of current capacity pressures”. As we have discussed in the
past, this likely centres on assessments of slack in the labour market. That would seem to be the case
given that members still assessed that persistently weaker-than-expected productivity growth was a

problem for bringing inflation back to target.
The other notable point of difference was on the extent to which the Fair Work Commission’s
moderately higher than expected 4.75% increase in all modern award wages might indirectly influence
other wage negotiations. Again, views on the impact differed but Members agreed that it would “depend
in part on the tightness of the labour market and expectations for inflation”.
Coming back to the central narrative of tight capacity and persistent inflation, the RBA deliberations

here have been given some additional framing by the Deputy Governor and a series of RBA ‘insight’
notes. Titled “The Straight Line Belongs to Man, the Curved Line Belongs to God”, Deputy Governor
Hauser’s Sir Douglas Copland Memorial Lecture, delivered to the Economic Society of Australia last
Deputy Governor Hauser’s recent speech and accompanying RBA research underscore risks around
tight capacity and possible shift in price-setting behaviour.
Q2 CPI remains critical, with a lot riding on how this and the balance of risks to the outlook are

judged..
Financial conditions are now seen as restrictive. While the conviction here is not high (“probably
somewhat restrictive”; “remained uncertain”) it is a little more forthright than the decision statement
which simply stated that conditions were now tighter. That uncertainty may also be partly due to staff
updates on the RBA’s modelled estimates which pointed to a slightly higher real neutral rate
compared to when the cash rate was last at 4.35% (at the start of last year).

Housing market developments were largely absent in the decision statement but featured a few times
in the Minutes, including in the ‘Considerations for Monetary Policy section’ (“Housing demand had
eased, which also reflected the broader economic environment and recently proposed tax changes”;
and “Members also noted the risks associated with a potentially material weakening in housing
markets, including if this were to inhibit growth in consumption”). Likewise, the data centre

investment surge rated a mention in the main assessment section as well (“[Members] discussed the
potential for continued strength in such activity to exacerbate capacity pressures and skills shortages
in other parts of the economy”).

### Page 3

week, was a little more technical than the ‘fireside chats’ and speeches that have been used to shape
mainstream and financial market expectations. However, it focussed on two areas that are extremely
pertinent to the Board’s current deliberations, namely: 1) the sensitivity of inflation to shocks when
capacity is tight; and 2) potential changes in price-setting behaviour. The ‘straight lines’ and ‘curves’
being discussed were those showing the relationship between unemployment and wage growth or

price inflation, and between cost and price changes. And the question is to what degree do these
relationships become ‘curvier’ as unemployment falls/capacity tightens.
The Deputy Governor spelled out the clear takeaway for monetary policy: that inflationary pressures
are likely to be higher for a given change in activity if; 1) domestic capacity pressures and inflation are
already elevated; and/or 2) cost shocks are large or persistent; and/or 3) inflation expectations are

elevated. From here the Deputy Governor concluded that ”non-linearities in the Phillips curve suggest
that policy should respond proactively to an inflationary shock when we are already on the steep part of
the curve – and that is what the Monetary Policy Board has done in recent months.”
The insights notes expand on this a little, in an even more technical manner. Some notable points are
that:
All up, the RBA minutes and other communications again point to heightened concerns about

persistently above-target inflation. We already knew the June quarter CPI release on July 29 would be
the critical piece of domestic information heading into the RBA Monetary Policy Board’s August 10-11
meeting. However, the latest RBA communications make it clear that aside from this, the key
judgements will be around the scale and persistence of shocks emanating from the Middle East, and
whether price setting behaviour has shifted,
On balance, we continue to see high inflation and an unacceptably slow return to target as drawing

additional interest rate rises from the RBA – but depending on how the inflation data, geopolitics and
key judgements land, that balance could be a close-run thing.
the RBA’s models currently incorporate some non-linearity (i.e. curviness) in the relationship between
unemployment and wage costs/inflation but not in price-setting behaviour which means the latter will
be a key area of judgement for policy making (informed by liaison);
there is clear evidence that price-setting behaviour did change during and after the pandemic,

adjusting more frequently from 2022;
this increased price flexibility is estimated to account for 0.4-1.3ppts of the gap between modelled
estimates and the actual peak in inflation 2022-23; and
that the way the policy trade-off between inflation and unemployment shifts when prices are more
flexible means policy can focus more closely on the inflation part of the mandate (the idea here being
that inflation declines will also be associated with more muted rises in unemployment).

Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 4

Related articles
Australia and NZ Weekly 6 July 2026
July 06 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &10 more

### Page 5

Australia and NZ Weekly 6 July 2026
July 03 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &10 more
#australia

### Page 6

China’s greatest opportunity and biggest threat
July 03 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

### Page 7

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 8

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 9

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 10

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 11

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 426: 【非核心消費產業攻略】必需品消費動能仍穩，非必需品市場雜音仍頻

Source PDF: all report pdf/【非核心消費產業攻略】必需品消費動能仍穩，非必需品市場雜音仍頻.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
必需品消費動能仍穩，非必
需品市場雜音仍頻
熱門議題 / 投資關鍵
• 美消費者傾向貨比三家且對促銷
更敏感 pg1
• 中東衝突干擾使嘉年華郵輪下調
2026年收益指引 pg1
• Nike營運復甦時間表再次延長 pg2
重點摘要
本月關鍵圖表
資料來源：Numerator，2026/6/26，中國信託商業銀行整
理，2026/6/30
市場投資展望
資產 3Q26看法 投資展望
非核心消費 中立 美消費力仍在但精打細算、中東衝突干擾郵輪業短期收益、運動用品業展望看淡
1
分析師／陳嘉琳
研究範疇 非核心消費 / 金融
非核心消費產業投資攻略
出 刊 日 : 2026/7/3
• 亞馬遜 Prime Day帶動美國
線上零售額達 264億美元新

高，年增9.3%。消費者行為
呈現兩極化 ，既利用促銷升
級購買高單價電子家電 ，也
大量囤積低價必需品 ，但因
通膨影響 ，單筆平均訂單金
額下降，消費更謹慎。
• 嘉年華郵輪財報優於預期 ，
克服燃油暴漲逆風 ，但因中
東衝突影響，下調2026年收
益率指引 。不過旅遊需求長
期復甦不變，2027年預訂量
動能依舊強勁。
• 街頭服飾疲軟 、大中華區市
況不佳 、關稅不確定性等逆
風讓Nike看淡未來半年展望 。
《亞馬遜Prime Day期間，美線上零售支出創高，
美消費者傾向貨比三家且對促銷更敏感》
亞 馬 遜 為 期 四 天 的 Prime Day 會 員 日 活 動
(6/23~6/26) ， 美國 線 上零 售支 出達 到 創紀 錄的
264億美元，優於市場預期，並創下9.3%的年增率，
主因是沃爾瑪和目標百貨也同步推出了促銷活動 。
Adobe的數據顯示，消費者利用促銷期購買了更多
價格較高的產品，最昂貴產品的佔比較年初至今的
平均值成長了19%，電子產品中最昂貴商品的佔比

更是飆漲了51%，消費者在玩具、家電和家具等類
別 中 也 出 現 了 升 級 換 代 的 趨 勢 。 市調機構
Numerator則指出Prime Day近七成的商品低於20
美元，顯示消費者也正大量囤積保健與生活必需品 ，
購 買 了 之 前 一 直 想 買 但 還 來 不 及 買 的 商 品， 又
Prime Day的平均訂單金額低於去年，顯示通膨影
響下單筆消費變得更謹慎。
亞馬遜大促中近七成商品為必需品
亞馬遜Prime Day每件商品單價占比(%)

### Page 2

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
吸納量
重點摘要
2
《嘉年華郵輪 Q2財報超預期 ，克服燃油暴漲逆風 ，
但 中 東衝 突 干擾使 公 司下 調2026年 收 益指 引，
2027年遠期預訂仍展強勁動能》
嘉年華郵輪最新財報表現強勁 ，營收與獲利均優於
市場預期，成功克服了燃油成本暴漲近30%及匯率
波動所帶來的逆風，然而，鑑於中東衝突對歐洲航
線需求的干擾超出預期，管理層採取相對審慎的態
度，將全年收益率增長指引從 3月份預估的 2.75%
下調至約2.25%。雖然歐洲航線的需求逆風與相關
成本增加，短期內仍持續為公司的營運與利潤帶來
壓力，但這並未破壞旅遊需求的長期復甦軌跡 ，管
理層也特別強調，地中海等歐洲航線近期的預訂數
據已出現逆轉改善的跡象 ，且放眼遠期 ，2027年

的預訂量依舊展現出強勁動能。
《Nike營運復甦時間表再次延長》
在投資人預期低迷的背景下，NIKE 4Q26財年每股
盈餘優於預期 (即使扣除一次性關稅退款的利多後 )。
雖然公司的營運調整正在取得進展，且Nike在專業
運動領域也實現了成長，但管理階層對營收復甦的
步伐抱持更為審慎的態度，並下調未來兩季的銷售
指引。背後原因包括運動服裝和Jordan街頭服飾系
列出現連續性疲軟、大中華區的趨勢依然疲弱、關
稅不確定性上升(預計7月底後關稅將從10%上調至
15%，因川普122條款將於7月底到期)，歐非中東
地區庫存及促銷壓力影響利率潤 ，甚至公司預期未
來6個月宏觀環境不會顯著改善等。
資料來源：彭博，2026/6/25，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/6/25
燃油成本正侵蝕嘉年華郵輪獲利
-50%
0%
50%
100%
150%
200%
2025 Q32025 Q42026 Q12026 Q22026 Q3
估
2026 Q4
估
2027 Q1
估
2027 Q2
估
平均燃料成本年增率(%)

每股盈餘年增率(%)

---
## Document 443: グローバル経済・金利ウォッチ

Source PDF: all report pdf/グローバル経済・金利ウォッチ.pdf
Report source: Sony FG
Date: 2026-06-19
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

KEY
POINT
2026/5/26グローバル経済・金利ウォッチ
1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
実質GDP 前期比年率、％ 2.1 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.8 0.8 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.7
前期比、％ 0.5 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.2 - - - - -
内需寄与度 前期比寄与度、％pt 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.1 0.2 0.9 0.4 0.9 0.4 0.0
民間最終消費支出 前期比、％ 0.3 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 1.2 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.6
民間企業設備投資 前期比、％ 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.4 2.3 1.5 1.5 1.9 1.4
民間在庫変動 前期比寄与度、％pt -0.1 -0.1 -0.1 0.0 0.0 -0.1 -0.4 0.1 -0.5 0.0
公的固定資本形成 前期比、％ 1.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.4 -0.6 1.2 1.5 1.1 1.3
外需寄与度 前期比寄与度、％pt 0.2 0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.0 -0.1 0.1 -0.0 0.2 -0.0

輸出 前期比、％ 1.7 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.3 1.9 1.6 1.3 1.8 1.2
輸入 前期比、％ 0.5 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.4 2.6 0.9 1.7 0.9 1.5
コアCPI（生鮮食品除く） 前年比、％ 1.8 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.7 2.5 2.0 2.3 0.7
コアコアCPI（生鮮食品・エネルギー除く） 前年比、％ 2.6 2.1 2.3 2.4 2.2 3.0 2.3 2.0 2.3
名目賃金 前年比、％ 2.9 2.5 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.4 2.6 2.7 2.6 2.7
出所：Macrobond、Bloomberg、ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社
2026年
2026年 2027年2027年度2025年度 2026年度
G
D
P
項
目
そ
の
他
2027年
 日本経済の現状：中東情勢悪化による景気後退の兆しは限定的。 1～3月期のGDP成長率は財輸出中心に
高めの伸び率に。ただし民間企業の石油備蓄量が減少したことによる在庫投資の下押しが顕在化。

 先行き：年央からの中東情勢の鎮静化を想定すれば、春闘による高い賃上げ等が下支えとなり、深刻な景
気後退は回避する公算。ただし、マインド指標は既に悪化し、供給制約や価格上昇への不安が高まる。
 注目点：4月貿易統計では原油輸入数量が大幅減。ホルムズ海峡封鎖が続けば、供給制約による景気下
押し圧力が大きくなるリスクが高まる。ただし、代替調達や輸出価格上昇が支援材料となる可能性。
1.日本経済の現状
日本経済の現状をみると 、中東情勢悪化による景気後退の
兆しは限定的 だ。1～3月期のGDP 成長率は前期比年率
+2％超えと、潜在成長率やコンセンサスより高い伸びを記録
した。在庫投資のマイナス幅が前期より縮小した点や、 前期
の個人消費 の下方修正が 今期の成長率を 押し上げた 面も
あり、ヘッドラインの成長率はやや過大評価だ 。しかし、仔細
にみても緩やかながら景気が回復したことが確認される。
景気を支えたのは、財輸出の底打ちだ。昨年のトランプ関税
による自動車輸出への悪影響が一巡しつつあることに加え 、

AI関連部材の需要増加が要因とみられる 。また、公共投資
も3四半期ぶりの増加に転じた 。個人消費も増加した 。推し
活や旅行などのサービスが底堅いことに加え 、食料価格の
高騰一巡や高市政権の物価高対応策により 、非耐久財も持
ち直した。その他、設備投資や住宅投資は減速したものの、
プラスの伸びを維持した。
注目されたインバウンド消費は前期から減少した 。しかし 、
中国人客数が大幅減となる中でも小幅のマイナスにとどまっ
た点は、むしろプラス材料だ 。他地域からの訪日需要の強さ
により、中国人需要減少が相応に相殺されている。
中東情勢悪化を見るうえで重要な交易条件 （輸出デフレー
ター／輸入デフレーター ）の前年比は、前期から改善した 。3
月からの中東情勢悪化により原油価格が高騰しているが、 1
～3月期のGDP統計に大きな影響は出てこなかった。
ただし、在庫投資が4四半期連続のマイナスとなったことは、
注意を要する 。昨年トランプ関税を前に企業が在庫を積み
上げた結果、その取り崩し局面がいまだ続いていると解釈さ

れる。加えて 、ホルムズ海峡封鎖を受けて 、民間の石油備
蓄が減少したことが在庫投資を押し下げたとみられる 。今後
も在庫投資のマイナス寄与が続く可能性がみてとれる。
2. 見通しと注目点：景況感格差が広がると予想
当社のメインシナリオは前月から概ね不変だ 。足下の原油
価格などを踏まえ、原油価格の想定を上方修正したことに伴
い、日本の成長率を下方修正した 。ただし、前月のレポート
で述べたように、深刻な景気後退は回避すると想定し 、26年
度は潜在成長率と同程度の伸び率を予想する 。27年度は中
東情勢悪化の影響一巡により 、景気は緩やかな回復に向
かっていくと予想している。
しかし、このシナリオの確度は低下しており 、今後は景気後
退の予兆の観測が重要だ 。既にマインド指標は大きく悪化し
ており、企業や家計の不安は高まっている。
内閣府の景気ウォッチャーの 4月のコメント からまとめると 、
その経路は下記だ。
①コストプッシュ型インフレ ：原油高は、 燃料費のみならず 、
輸送費、包装資材、 化学製品価格などを通じてコスト増に 。

企業は値上げを通じてコスト吸収を図り 、インフレ圧力へ。た
だし、価格転嫁力の弱い中小・ 零細企業を中心に利益率低
下が進行しやすい。
2026年5月日本経済見通し：顕在化する石油供給制約、景気後退の兆しはまだ乏しい
1
issue date 2026/5/26
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ(株)
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
宮嶋 貴之
日本経済見通し表（レポート執筆時点）

### Page 2

2026/5/26
グローバル経済・金利ウォッチ
出所：財務省、Macrobond
足下の輸入物価は減速
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（年）
原油輸入数量
天然ガス輸入数量（前年比％）
②供給制約 ・サプライチェーン停滞 ：石油関連製品の不足に
よる供給制約の強まり、特にナフサ由来製品の供給制限によ
り、産業の末端を支える副資材が不足 。ストレッチフィルムな
ど梱包資材の不足も重なり 、配送遅延・ 納品制限など 、物流
ネットワーク全体の機能低下リスクが発生 。必要部材が揃わ
ないことで 、工場の減産・ 操業停止、 建築工事の延期・ 中断
などが発生し 、企業の売上機会損失が拡大するリスク 。企
業・家計双方で 、日用品・ 消耗品などの買いだめが更なる品
薄を招く悪循環につながる公算も。
③家計・企業マインド悪化ルート ：物価上昇と先行き不透明

感の高まりは、 家計・企業双方のマインドを悪化させ、 消費・
投資活動が萎縮。実質所得減少による節約志向の高まりと 、
将来不安の高まりから消費の手控えが発生 。企業も守りの
経営の様相が強まり、設備投資や賃上げを抑制する恐れ。
このうち、足元で特に懸念が高まっているのは ②の供給制約
だ。一部企業ではナフサ不足等を理由に受注の中断や製品
規格の変更などで対応していると報じられている 。内閣府の
景気ウォッチャー調査の4月のコメントから抜粋すると、エンジ
ンオイル、ブレーキオイル 、ディーゼルオイル 、切削油、潤滑
油、尿素水、ウォッシャー液、重油、灯油、メタノール、樹脂系
原料、顔料接合材、塗料、シンナー、断熱材、接着剤、ポリ塩
化ビニール系の部材 、プラスチック製品 、ビニールフィルム 、
ビニールシート 、梱包用ストレッチフィルム 、食品用ラップ 、食
品トレイ、ゴミ袋、各種手袋（ポリ系手袋 、ニトリル手袋 、ゴム
手袋など）、ユニットバス 、トイレ、アプローチ商材 などの不足、
ならびに今後の不足懸念が言及されている。

供給制約が強まれば 、強制的な需要ショック （家計の消費が
減り、企業も投資計画を見直す ）により 、景気後退が深刻化
するリスクは無視できない。モノ不足による景気下押し効果を
測ることは困難だが、 簡易的な方法として 、産業連関表の
ゴーシュ逆行列を用いて試算 （石油関連業種からの中間投
入の10％分だけ付加価値が減少すると仮定） すると、GDPは
▲0.4％程度下押し圧力がかかる。この試算は、他の原材料・
部材による代替が困難という強い仮定の下での試算のため 、
幅を持って見る必要はある 。ただ景気に対する相応の下押し
圧力がかかる可能性がみてとれる 。業種別でみると、石油製
品や石油化学 、電気・ガス、道路貨物、航空輸送などの業種
への生産下押し効果が大きいと試算される。
加えて 、仮に実際にモノ不足までに至らずとも 、家計や企業
の懸念が高まることで 、自主的に自粛を本格化させる懸念が
ある。そうなれば、自己実現的な景気後退につながる。このリ
スクの蓋然性は相対的に高いと筆者はみている。

資源エネルギー庁によると 、現在の石油備蓄日数は5月19日
時点で205日分と2月末（243日分）から38日分減少している 。
現状のペースが続くと仮定すれば、 年内に備蓄が枯渇すると
は想定されない 。ただし 、備蓄には最低基準があり 、これに
近づいていけば 、枯渇懸念がメディアで報じられることを通じ
て、消費マインドが大きく下振れするリスクはある。
政府は現状、本格的な自粛を要請せず今後の対応を検討中
の段階とみられる 。確かに、足元の状況からみれば、 直ちに
自粛を本格化させる必要性 はまだ小さい。今後イラン情勢が
劇的に改善に向かう可能性もある 。しかし、ホルムズ海峡封
鎖が続けば、 原油備蓄は減少し続け 、枯渇懸念は次第に高
まっていくため、今から少しずつ自粛することが必要との意見
も一理ある。政府には非常に難しい判断が迫られている。
この原油不足リスクを見るうえで重要なデータが貿易統計だ 。
4月分（ 速報） の結果をみると 、原油の輸入数量は前年比
▲64％と、2000年以降では最大の減少幅だ （図表1）。LNGも

前年比▲20％程度と、ウクライナ危機時と同程度のマイナス
だ。この結果から 、ホルムズ海峡封鎖などによって 、原油輸
入が大きく減少していることが確認される。
4月1か月間の石油備蓄日数の減少分は24 日と計算されるた
め、今後4月と同程度の原油輸入マイナスが続けば（ 他の条
件は全て一定と仮定）、石油備蓄はあと9カ月で枯渇すると計
算される。年内に備蓄がゼロになる可能性は低いとみられる
が 、 これは大きな安心材料とまでは言えない 。 IMF の
PortWatchなどを見る限り 、ホルムズ海峡の通過貨物量は未
だに前年比ほぼ▲100％に近い落ち込みが続いているからだ。
少なくとも5月の輸入統計は同様の結果になると予想する。
こうした現状が続けば、 景気後退リスクは高まるだろうが、 プ
ラス材料もある 。原油の輸入数量を地域別にみると 、中東か
らの輸入が大幅減（前年比▲67％）の一方、米国は＋39％と
大幅に加速した 。石油精製品 （揮発油） は前年の206倍増加
した。ASEANからも前年比＋64％と大幅増だ。中東以外の地

域からの代替輸入調達が予想よりも早く進展すれば、 石油備
蓄減少ペースは緩和される可能性が出てくる。
もう1点は、交易条件の悪化が限定的にとどまっている点だ 。
4月の貿易統計や輸出入物価指数をみる限り 、非鉄金属や
ゴム製品、 半導体や化学製品などの輸出価格は大きく上昇
した。仕入価格上昇に伴う販売価格への転嫁が進んでいるこ
とに加え 、AI関連需要の強さが半導体や関連部材の価格を
押し上げ 、この点は朗報だ 。この輸出価格上昇により 、交易
条件はウクライナ危機時ほど悪化していない 。貿易収支は、
むしろ黒字転化している。少なくとも価格面からの経路からは 、
直ちに深刻な景気後退に至る可能性は低そう だ。上記2点は
確度が低下しているメインシナリオを補強するプラス材料と言
える。ただし、その持続性が保証されているわけではない。
2
宮嶋貴之
図表2：交易条件指数と貿易収支
図表1：原油・天然ガスの輸入数量
出所：財務省、Macrobond
3～4月の交易条件、貿易収支の悪化は限定的
70

75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
-300,000
-250,000
-200,000
-150,000
-100,000
-50,000
0
50,000
100,000
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 （年）
交易条件（輸出価格／輸入価格）・右軸
貿易収支・左軸
（億円） （2020年＝100）
ウクライナ危機
中東危機
コロナ感染
東日本大震災
リーマンショック

### Page 3

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ 金融市場調査部・研究員紹介
尾河 眞樹 （おがわ まき）
執行役員（金融市場調査部担当）
チーフアナリスト
ファースト ・ シカゴ銀行 、JP モルガン ・
チェース銀行などの為替ディーラーを経
て、ソニー財務部にて為替リスクヘッジと
市場調査に従事。 その後シティバンク銀
行（現SMBC信託銀行） で個人金融部門
の投資調査企画部長として 、金融市場
の調査・ 分析を担当 。2016年8月より当
社執行役員。 テレビ東京「Newsモーニン
グサテライト 」、日経CNBC などにレギュ
ラー出演し、金融市場の解説を行ってい
る。主な著書に 『為替ってこんなに面白
い！（2024年幻冬舎新書） 』、『〈最新版〉
本当にわかる為替相場 （2023年日本実
業出版社）』などがある。ソニー銀行株式
会社取締役、 ウェルスナビ株式会社顧
問。人生投資アカデミー® 学長。
井上 哲也 （いのうえ てつや）
金融市場調査部
シニアフェロー エグゼクティブエコノミスト
日本銀行で主として国際金融市場やそ

れに関する政策、 2回の役員秘書（ 福井
副総裁、植田審議委員 ）、IT革命の影響
に関する研究等を行った後、 野村総合
研究所で主要国の金融政策 、デジタル
通貨、 地域金融の活性化等に関する調
査を行い 、成果を多数の報告書等の形
で公表。2026年4月より現職。テレビ出演
や経済メディアへの寄稿を行っているほ
か、主な著書に 『異次元緩和 （2013年日
経BP）』、『デジタル円（2020年日経BP）』、
『CBDCとステーブルコインの衝撃（ 2026
年日経BP）』がある。1985年東京大学経
済学部卒、 1992年イェール大学大学院
経済学修士。
渡辺 浩志 （わたなべ ひろし）
金融市場調査部長 チーフエコノミスト
1999年に大和総研に入社し 、経済調査
部にてエコノミストとしてのキャリアをス
タート 。2006年～2008 年は内閣府政策
統括官室（ 経済財政分析 ・総括担当） へ
出向し、『経済財政白書』等の執筆を行う。
2011年からはSMBC 日興証券金融経済
調査部および株式調査部にて機関投資

家向けの経済分析 ・情報発信に従事。
2017年1月より当社 。内外のマクロ経済
についての調査 ・分析業務を担当。 ロジ
カルかつデータの裏付けを重視した分析
を行っている。
石川 久美子 （いしかわ くみこ）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
商品先物専門紙での貴金属および外国
為替担当の編集記者を経て、2009年4月
に外為どっとコムに入社し 、外為どっとコ
ム総合研究所の立ち上げに参画。同年6
月から同社研究員として、外国為替相場
について調査 ・分析を行う 。2016年11月
より現職。外国為替市場に関するレポー
ト執筆の他、 テレビ東京 「Newsモーニン
グサテライト 」など多数のメディアに出演
し、金融市場の解説を行う 。資源国・ 新
興国通貨に強い 。著書に『円安はいつま
で続くのか 為替で世界を読む （2025年
マイナビ新書 ）』がある。Xでの情報発信
（@KumiIshikawa_FX）も行っている。
森本 淳太郎 （もりもと じゅんたろう）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト

みずほフィナンシャルグループにて企画
業務、法人営業などを経験した後、 2019
年8月より現職 。外国為替市場の調査・
分析業務、 特にユーロやポンド 、スイス
フランなどの欧州通貨を専門に担当。 テ
レビ東京 「Newsモーニングサテライト 」、
TOKYO MX 「Stock Voice 東京マーケッ
トワイド 」、日経CNBC 「朝エクスプレス」
「 GINZA CROSSING Talk マーケット
ニュース」などにレギュラー出演し 、金融
市場の解説を行っている 。2013年東京
大学経済学部卒。
宮嶋 貴之 （みやじま たかゆき）
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
2009年にみずほ総合研究所（ 当時） 入
社以来 、一貫してエコノミストとしてマク
ロ経済調査を担当。 2011年～2013 年は
内閣府（経済財政分析担当） へ出向。官
庁エコノミストとして 『経済財政白書』 、
『月例経済報告』 等を担当。 2021年4月
より現職。2025年から景気循環学会・ 理
事。主な著書（ 全て共著 ）は、『TPP-日

台加盟の影響と展望』（国立台湾大学出
版中心）、『激震 原油安経済』（日経BP）。
日本経済・債券市場、中国などのアジア
情勢が専門、 セクターは不動産 、観光、
半導体等を分析。

### Page 4

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ
本レポートについてのご注意
 ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社は、ソニー生命保険株式会社、ソニー損害保険株式会社、ソニー銀行株式会社の３社を中核とする金融持株会社です。
 当社グループの各事業は、独自性のある事業モデルを構築し、合理的かつ利便性の高い商品・サービスを個人のお客さまに提供しています。
 当社グループの基本情報、グループ各社の事業内容などにつきましては、当社ホームページでご覧いただけます。
https://www.sonyfg.co.jp
介護事業
銀行事業
損害保険事業
生命保険事業
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
（ベンチャーキャピタル事業)
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ (株)

---
## Document 458: ユーロ圏失業率（2026年5月）－失業率、若年失業率ともに横ばい

Source PDF: all report pdf/ユーロ圏失業率（2026年5月）－失業率、若年失業率ともに横ばい.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-07-03
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1． 結果の概要：失業率は 6.2％で前月から横ばい 
7 月 2 日、欧州委員会統計局（Eurostat）はユーロ圏の失業率を公表し、結果は以下の通り。 
【ユーロ圏失業率（21 か国、2026 年5 月、季節調整値） 】 
・失業率は6.2％、市場予想1（6.3％）から下ぶれ、前月（6.2％）から横ばいだった（図表1・
2） 
・失業者は1098.6 万人となり、前月（1104.1 万人）から5.5 万人減少した

2． 結果の詳細：失業者数は 3 カ月連続で減少 
ユーロ圏（21 か国）の 5 月の失業率は 6.2％となり、4 月（6.2％）から横ばいだった。なお、4
月の失業率についてはわずかに改善方向に改定された（26 年4 月 6.3→6.2％） 。失業者数は5 月の
前月差で 5.5 万人の減少となり、3 月（▲8.7 万人）、4 月（▲9.5 万人）に続き 3 カ月連続の減少
となった。主要 4 か国の失業者数前月差はフランス（1.6 万人）とスペイン（0.9 万人）が増加す
る一方、イタリア（▲2.2 万人） 、ドイツ（▲1.0 万人）が減少した。また失業率は、 スペインが10.3％
（4 月 10.3％） 、フランス 8.2％（4 月 8.2％） 、イタリア 5.0％（4 月 5.1％） 、ドイツ 3.8％（4 月
3.8％）となった（図表 2）。主要 4 か国では、スペイン、フランス、ドイツが緩やかな上昇または
横ばいで推移する一方、 イタリアのみ減少傾向がみられる。失業者数はユーロ圏全体でコロナ禍前
より約 84.2 万人少なく、主にスペイン（コロナ禍前比▲70.9 万人）とイタリア（同▲59.6 万人）
の失業者数の減少が全体を押し下げている 。一方、フランスやドイツはコロナ禍前より それぞれ

1 bloomberg 集計の中央値。以下の予想値も同様。 
（図表 1）

（図表 2）

6.2
14.7
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
06/5
06/10
07/3
07/8
08/1
08/6
08/11
09/4
09/9
10/2
10/7
10/12
11/5
11/10
12/3
12/8
13/1
13/6
13/11
14/4
14/9
15/2
15/7
15/12
16/5
16/10
17/3
17/8
18/1
18/6
18/11
19/4
19/9
20/2
20/7
20/12
21/5
21/10
22/3
22/8
23/1
23/6
23/11
24/4
24/9
25/2
25/7
25/12
26/5
（注）季節調整値、若年失業率は25歳以下
（資料）Eurostat
（月次）
ユーロ圏失業率（％） （％）
若年失業率（右軸）
失業率
3.9 3.8
16.5
10.3
6.9
8.2
10.3 
5.0 
6.2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
19/5
19/8
19/11
20/2
20/5
20/8
20/11
21/2
21/5
21/8
21/11
22/2
22/5
22/8
22/11
23/2
23/5
23/8
23/11
24/2
24/5
24/8
24/11
25/2
25/5
25/8
25/11
26/2
26/5
ユーロ圏失業率
（％）
ユーロ圏全体
スペイン
フランス
ドイツ
イタリア
（月次）（注）季節調整値
（資料）Eurostat
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-07-03 
ユーロ圏失業率（2026 年 5 月） 
－失業率、若年失業率ともに横ばい

### Page 2

（図表 4）

国別の 5 月のデータを見ると、失業率は公表されている 21 か国中、悪化した国が 4 か国、改善
が6 か国、横ばいが 11 か国だった（図表5）。若年失業率は、公表されている17 か国中、悪化した
国が 5 か国、改善が8 か国、横ばいが4 か国だった（図表6）。 
（図表 5）

（図表 6）

最後に詳細な月次データを公表しているイタリアとポルトガルについて確認すると、イタリアは
失業者と就業者が減少、非労働人口が増加し、労働参加率は低下した。ポルトガルは失業者と非労
働者が減少、就業者が増加し、労働参加率が上昇した（図表7、8）。 
（図表 7）

（図表 8）

▲ 99.0
▲ 60.5
▲ 84.2
▲ 180
▲ 150
▲ 120
▲ 90
▲ 60
▲ 30
0
30
60
90
120
150
180
210
240
20/3
20/5
20/7
20/9
20/11
21/1
21/3
21/5
21/7
21/9
21/11
22/1
22/3
22/5
22/7
22/9
22/11
23/1
23/3
23/5
23/7
23/9
23/11
24/1
24/3
24/5
24/7
24/9
24/11
25/1
25/3
25/5
25/7
25/9
25/11
26/1
26/3
26/5
ドイツ
スペイン
フランス
イタリア
その他の国
全体
（基準差、万人）
ユーロ圏（21か国）の累積失業者数変化
失業者増
失業者減
（注）季節調整値、「コロナショック（2020年3月）」からの累積人数
（資料）Eurostat
▲ 120
▲ 100
▲ 80
▲ 60
▲ 40
▲ 20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
20/3
20/5
20/7
20/9
20/11
21/1
21/3
21/5
21/7
21/9
21/11
22/1
22/3
22/5
22/7
22/9
22/11
23/1
23/3
23/5
23/7
23/9
23/11
24/1
24/3
24/5
24/7
24/9
24/11
25/1
25/3
25/5
25/7
25/9
25/11
26/1
26/3
26/5
（注）季節調整値、「コロナショック（2020年3月）」からの累積人数
（資料）Eurostat
ユーロ圏（21か国）の累積失業者数変化（基準差、万人）
全体
うち若年層
失業者増
失業者減
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
ユーロ圏
ベルギー
ブルガリア
ドイツ
エストニア
アイルランド
ギリシャ
スペイン
フランス
クロアチア
イタリア
キプロス
ラトビア
リトアニア
ルクセンブルグ
マルタ
オランダ
オーストリア
ポルトガル
スロベニア
スロバキア
フィンランド
2026/4
2026/5
（資料）Eurostat
ユーロ圏の失業率（国別）
ユーロ圏（5月）：6.2％
（％）
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
ユーロ圏
ブルガリア
ドイツ
エストニア
アイルランド
ギリシャ
スペイン
フランス
イタリア
ラトビア
リトアニア
ルクセンブルグ
マルタ
オランダ
オーストリア
ポルトガル
スロバキア
フィンランド
2026/4
2026/5
ユーロ圏（5月）：１４.７％
ユーロ圏の若者失業率（国別）
（注）ベルギー・クロアチア・キプロス・スロベニアは最新月データなし
（資料）Eurostat
（％）
66.1
65.7
67.2 66.4
60
61
62
63
64
65
66
67
68
▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
19/1
19/5
19/9
20/1
20/5
20/9
21/1
21/5
21/9
22/1
22/5
22/9
23/1
23/5
23/9
24/1
24/5
24/9
25/1
25/5
25/9
26/1
26/5
イタリアの失業者・非労働力人口・労働参加率
（注）季節調整値
（資料）ＩＳＴＡＴのデータより取得
非労働者人口（15-64才）の変化
失業者数（15-4才）の変化
労働参加率（15-64才、右軸）
（前月差、万人） （％）
（月次）
70.4
58
60
62
64
66
68
70
72
▲ 8
▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
19/1
19/5
19/9
20/1
20/5
20/9
21/1
21/5
21/9
22/1
22/5
22/9
23/1
23/5
23/9
24/1
24/5
24/9
25/1
25/5
25/9
26/1
26/5
ポルトガルの失業者・非労働力人口・労働参加率
（前月差、万人）
労働参加率（16-74才、右軸）
非労働者人口（16-74才）の変化
失業者数（16-74才）の変化
（注）季節調整値
（資料）ポルトガル統計局
（月次）
（％）
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

---
## Document 481: 主要產業總評：SpaceX 世紀登場

Source PDF: all report pdf/主要產業總評：SpaceX 世紀登場.pdf
Report source: Fubon
Date: 2026-06-24
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1 
*：舉例說明，非單一標的推薦

台北富邦銀行 
June 24，2026 | 4:00 PM (GMT+8) 
主要產業 總評：SpaceX 世紀登場
投資研究部 
 Research 
Financial Market 
▎史上最大 IPO，改寫歷史 
2026 年 6 月 12 日，全球資本市場迎來了歷史性的一
刻。SpaceX*（太空探索技術公司）在那斯達克※正式
掛牌，以每股 135 美元的發行價計算，首次公開募股
（IPO） 規模約達750 億美元，若計入超額配售則逼近
860 億美元，一舉超越沙烏地阿美※於 2019 年創下的
全球最大 IPO 紀錄，成為人類資本市場有史以來規模
最大的股票上市事件。 
首個交易日 ，SpaceX*股價即大漲 19%，周間歷史最高
來到每股 225.64 美元，市值一度突破 2.9 兆美元。這
個數字是什麼概念？它已超過亞馬遜， 逼近微軟與蘋果 ，
僅次於少數幾間頂端的科技巨頭 。 而其背後的創辦人伊
隆·馬斯克 ， 個人資產也因此突破1 兆美元 ， 正式成為全
球史上第一位「兆元富翁」。 
SpaceX*同時掌握了火箭發射 、 全球衛星網路 、 以及AI
運算三大核心，代表航太、電信與科技產業邊界的徹底
瓦解，也是過去 20 年馬斯克最大膽商業布局的總結算
時刻。 
▎SpaceX*商業模式是什麼？  
很多投資人聽到「航太公司」 ，腦海中浮現的是耗費大
量稅金、燒錢無底洞的政府機構。SpaceX*完全不同。 
圖 1 歷史上大型 IPO 紀錄表現

資料來源：北富銀整理，2026/06/22 
SpaceX*是一間把 「送東西上太空的成本」 壓低到近乎
革命性程度的科技公司。 就像亞馬遜把物流成本壓低 ，
讓電商成為可能。SpaceX*把發射成本壓低，讓商業太
空進入門檻驟降，進而衍生出衛星網路、軌道運算等全
新的商業模式。 
它同時做三件事：造火箭（運輸工具）、建衛星網路  
Starlink（賣連線服務）、跑 AI 運算 xAI（賣算力）。
三塊業務彼此強化 ， 形成其他公司難以複製的太空生態
系。 
排名 公司 募資金額 年份
1 SpaceX 750 億美元 2026
2 沙烏地阿美 256 億美元 2019
3 阿里巴巴 218 億美元 2014
4 軟銀集團 213 億美元 2018
5 NTT DoCoMo 181 億美元 1998
6 Visa 179 億美元 2008
7 AIA 友邦保險 178 億美元 2010
◼ SpaceX*以 1.77 兆美元估值掛牌，首日股價大漲 19%、市值瞬間超越 2.9 兆美
元，打破史上最大 IPO 紀錄，並以火箭發射、Starlink 衛星網路、xAI 人工智慧
三大業務撐起龐大版圖。2025 年全年營收達 189 億美元，年增 33%，Starlink
貢獻約 61%的收入，是集團最重要的現金引擎。 
◼ SpaceX*的護城河建立在「可回收火箭」這項革命性技術之上。透過 Falcon 9
的反覆再利用，每次發射成本較傳統降低逾 90%，使競爭對手幾乎無法在商業
上與之抗衡。 
◼ Starlink 持續擴張將帶動衛星製造、地面設備、頻譜資源等上下游需求 ，AI 與太
空算力的結合，創造了全新的商業想像空間，併購 xAI 則是將 AI 算力部署延伸
至「太空軌道」的關鍵一步，打造出史無前例的垂直整合平台。 另一方面，估值
壓力與虧損風險並存，是此波行情最重要的雙面刃，投資人應審慎評估。

### Page 2

2 
*：舉例說明，非單一標的推薦 
誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
圖 2 SpaceX*過去幾年三大業務營收組成

資料來源：REX，2026/06/03 
▎技術底層：可回收火箭 
要理解 SpaceX*為何值得這麼高的估值 ， 必須先了解它
的核心技術護城河：可回收火箭。 
傳統火箭就像一次性筷子，每送一次貨上太空，火箭主
體就燒毀在大氣層裡或墜入海中 。 一枚火箭造價動輒數
億美元，發射完就丟，成本極高。SpaceX*的 Falcon 9
則徹底翻轉了這個模式，當火箭第一節分離後，會自動
飛回地面或降落在海上無人船，完成回收，翻修後可再
次使用。 
這個聽起來像科幻電影的技術 ， 使每次發射成本從傳統
的約 1.5 億美元大幅降低 ，Falcon 9 每次發射報價僅約
6,700 萬美元，且成本還在持續下降。目前最先進的重
型火箭 Starship（星艦） 目標是進一步把成本壓到數百
萬美元等級。 
如此低廉的發射成本 ， 讓SpaceX*得以在 2019 年開始
大規模把 Starlink 衛星一批批送上天 ， 以過去難以想像
的速度建立起全球最大的衛星網路。 
▎三大業務解析：火箭、衛星、AI 
一、太空發射與基礎設施（火箭業務） 
這是 SpaceX*的起家業務 ， 也是整個商業模式的基礎設
施。SpaceX*旗下的 Falcon 9 是目前全球發射次數最
多、可靠度最高的商業火箭，單枚火箭最高紀錄已重複
使用超過 20 次，成功率高達 99%以上。 
客戶包括 NASA（美國航太總署） 、各國政府、商業衛
星公司，以及 SpaceX*自己的 Starlink 部門。2025 年
全年 ，SpaceX*執行的軌道發射任務超過 130 次 ， 約佔
全球商業發射市場的 60%以上，形成近乎壟斷的市場
地位。 
圖 3 SpaceX* Falcon 9 發射畫面

資料來源：Next SpaceLight，2026/06 
更重要的是 ，Starship 的研發進展加速了太空貨運的大
眾化潛力。Starship 理論載荷可達 100 至 150 噸，是
Falcon 9 的數倍 ， 且目標將成本壓到傳統的千分之一 。
一旦 Starship 進入商業化營運，人類送貨上太空的成
本結構將再次颠覆。 
二、Starlink 全球最大低軌衛星網路 
Starlink 是 SpaceX*目前最重要的現金流來源 ， 也是整
個估值邏輯的核心。截至 IPO 前，Starlink 在軌衛星數
量超過 7,000 顆， 訂戶突破1,030 萬人， 覆蓋超過100
個國家與地區 ，2025 年連結業務 （Connectivity） 營收
達 114 億美元，年增 50%，佔集團總營收的 61%。 
Starlink 到底在賣什麼？簡單說 ， 它賣的是網路 。 透過
在低空軌道※密密麻麻的衛星，讓訊號直接從太空打到
地面，讓過去沒有電信基礎設施的偏遠地區、船隻、飛
機、軍隊，都能獲得高速的網路連線。 
Starlink 的客戶分為三層： 
一般消費者（每月約 100 至 120 美元）：家用寬頻替
代方案，偏遠山區、農村地帶尤其受歡迎。 
企業與政府客戶 （佔2025 年營收約 35%， 年增51%）：
船舶 、 航空 、 軍事通訊 ， 單位帳單金額遠高於個人用戶 。 
直連手機 （Direct to Cell） ： 未來成長最大的想像空間 ，
讓普通智慧型手機無需基地台 ， 直接連上Starlink 衛星 ，
目前已與多家電信業者合作測試。 
Starlink 的競爭優勢在於低延遲※。相比傳統地球靜止
軌道衛星距離地面 3.6 萬公里，Starlink 衛星距離地面

### Page 3

3 
*：舉例說明，非單一標的推薦 
誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
僅約 550 公里，延遲可低至 20 至 40 毫秒，足以支援
視訊通話、線上遊戲乃至金融交易。 
圖 4 星鏈位於近地軌道(俗稱低軌)

資料來源：BBC，2022 
三、AI 基礎設施（xAI 部門） 
2026 年 2 月，SpaceX*完成對馬斯克旗下 AI 公司 xAI
的併購 ， 交易完成後合併估值高達1.25 兆美元 。xAI 旗
下的 Grok 是 目 前 與 OpenAI ChatGPT 、 Google 
Gemini、Claude 等主流 AI 聊天助理之一，這項併購
的戰略意義，遠比看起來更深遠。 
SpaceX*的設想是：把 AI 運算從地面資料中心，搬到
太空中的 Starlink 衛星網路上。想像一下，未來的 AI
運算推理不再只依賴地面的超大型機房 ， 而是由遍布全
球軌道的衛星節點進行分散式運算 。這不只是降低成本 ，
更能解決地面資料中心因地緣政治、電力供應、土地取
得所面臨的種種限制。 
然而 ， 這項高度前瞻的布局目前代價不菲 。AI 部門 2025
年燒掉了 63.55 億美元的營運虧損 ， 拖累集團整體帳面
出現赤字，是目前估值最具爭議性的部分。 
※低軌衛星（LEO, Low Earth Orbit）：在距離地球 300 至 2,000 公
里軌道運行的衛星，因距離近，訊號延遲極低。 
※延遲 （Latency） ：資料從發送到抵達的時間，延遲越低，網路操作
越即時，對即時通訊、線上遊戲格外重要。 
▎SpaceX* 產業鏈 
SpaceX*的崛起，帶動的不只是它自己一家公司。就像
當年 iPhone 的誕生帶動了整個智慧型手機供應鏈，
SpaceX*所驅動的商業太空熱潮， 正在重塑整條產業鏈
的分工與估值。 
上游：核心零件與系統設計（技術壁壘最高） 
上游包含火箭引擎、衛星主體、航電系統、推進劑等核
心零件的設計與製造。SpaceX*高度垂直整合，自行研
發 Merlin 與 Raptor 引擎，但仍依賴眾多專業供應商
提供高溫合金、碳纖維複合材料、精密電子元件等關鍵
材料。 
上游還包含頻譜資源。Starlink 運作依賴 Ka 波段、Ku
波段等無線電頻譜，這是稀缺資源，由各國政府管制，
取得難度高，形成強大的進入壁壘，也是後進者難以追
趕的關鍵。此外，衛星設計與測試、地面控制系統等，
也屬於上游高技術密度的範疇。 
中游 ： 衛星製造 、 發射服務與地面基礎設施 （資本密集） 
中游是 SpaceX*最直接的戰場 。 火箭製造本身就是高度
資本密集的行業 ， 在SpaceX*之外 ， 歐洲的亞利安太空
公司*（Arianespace） 、 亞馬遜旗下的藍色起源*（Blue 
Origin） 、中國的長征系列火箭都是競爭者，但目前皆
難以與 SpaceX*的成本效益匹敵。 
地面設備製造也是中游的重要環節 。 每個Starlink 用戶
都需要一個 「用戶終端機」 （俗稱 「碟子」 ， 即Dishy），
硬體成本約 500 美元 ，SpaceX*目前以補貼價銷售 ， 寄
望以訂閱費長期回收。全球若有上億潛在用戶，這意味
著龐大的硬體製造需求。 
台灣廠商如昇達科*、華通*等包含衛星零件精密製造、
PCB、連接器等，均是台廠擅長的領域，業者已進入
SpaceX*的供應鏈評估名單。 
※頻譜：是衛星傳輸訊號所依賴的無線電波段 （如 Ka 與 Ku 波段） ，
是確保通訊運作的基礎 。 這類資源具有高度稀缺性並受到各國政府嚴
格管制， 是企業進入低軌衛星市場必須取得的特許門票。 由於取得難
度極高， 頻譜已成為產業上游的重要競爭壁壘，也是後進者難以追趕 
SpaceX 的關鍵因素。 
下游：連接服務、數據應用與  AI 變現（變現最直接） 
下游是最接近用戶 、 最容易看到現金流的地方 。Starlink
訂閱費是最直接的下游營收，此外，企業網路解決方案
（如海事通訊、空中上網） 、政府安全通訊合約，以及
未來 AI 推論服務的收費，都屬於下游的變現範疇。 
值得關注的是「直連手機」服務（Direct to Cell）。一
旦普通手機都能直接接入 Starlink，傳統電信業者的基
礎設施壟斷地位將面臨根本性的挑戰 ， 下游的受益者與
受害者將同時出現，投資人需要分辨清楚。 
▎亮眼成長背後的虧損黑洞 
SpaceX*的財務報表，對一般投資人來說是個 「看起來
很美、但細看有點驚訝」的存在。 
2025 年全年總營收亮眼約 189 億美元，年增 33%。
2026 年第 1 季單季營收即達 47 億美元，年化運行率
逼近 190 億美元 ，Starlink 業務的訂閱制屬性帶來強勁

### Page 4

4 
*：舉例說明，非單一標的推薦 
誠信親切、專業創新 週報 
的可預測現金流。 
然而，財務上不樂觀，因 SpaceX*目前是虧損的，原因
主要是 xAI 部門 2025 年燒掉 63.55 億美元的營運虧
損，加上 Starship 的研發費用持續高企。若剔除 AI 部
門，Starlink 本身的獲利能力相當強健 ，2025 年已實現
正向的 EBITDA※。 
以 1.77 兆美元的 IPO 估值邏輯換算，約為 2025 年營
收的 94 倍。這在傳統工業或電信公司是天文數字，但
市場給予的是 「科技公司」的估值框架，如當年市場給
Tesla 的估值，不只看現有車廠獲利，而是押注電動車
平台與自動駕駛的未來 。 投資人買SpaceX*， 很大程度
上是押注在 Starlink 全球訂戶從 1,030 萬成長至 1 億，
以及太空 AI 運算在未來 10 年成為現實。 
摩根大通分析師指出 ，若Starlink 訂戶達到 1 億 （全球
約 5 億無網路人口仍是潛在市場） ， 以每月平均100 美
元計算，年化訂閱收入即可達 1,200 億美元，遠超目前
規模，支撐現有估值具備相當的邏輯基礎。然而，高盛
亦同時提醒 ，AI 部門的虧損擴大速度與商業化時程 ， 是
評估 SpaceX*最大的不確定性來源。 
※EBITDA：稅前、利息前、折舊及攤銷前盈餘，是衡量企業實際營運
獲利能力的常用指標，去除了會計折舊等非現金項目的影響。 
▎太空商機成長機會高，惟風險猶存 
SpaceX*的 IPO 代表了太空產業從燒稅金的政府計畫
正式蛻變為可以賺錢的商業生態系的歷史節點 ， 其意義
不僅在於這一家公司 ，而在於它所驗證的整個商業模式，
低成本進入太空，是可行的、可賺錢的。 
對一般投資人而言，需要特別留意機會面 上，第一，
Starlink 仍處於早期滲透階段，全球有近 50 億人口仍
處於網路覆蓋薄弱區，長期成長空間確實存在。第二，
SpaceX*帶動的供應鏈商機 ， 可能是比直接買SpaceX*
股票更具風險調整後報酬的切入點 。第三 ，AI 與太空算
力的結合，若成真，將是全新的商業範疇，目前市場尚
未完全定價。 
然而，在風險面上，估值過高風險，因近百倍的本益比
意味著市場已把極度樂觀的未來情境充分定價 ， 一旦成
長不如預期，修正幅度可能相當劇烈。技術與執行風險
方面，當 Starship 的商業化進程、xAI 的獲利時程，皆
充滿不確定性。最後地緣政治與監管風險，因頻譜取得
受各國政府管制，Starlink 在部分國家面臨封鎖或限制
使用的問題（如俄羅斯的前例） ，政策風險不可忽視。 
最後但最重要的是，馬斯克個人風險，SpaceX*高度依
賴馬斯克的個人領導力與判斷 ， 他同時掌管Tesla、xAI
等多家公司，任何個人爭議都可能影響股價。 
附表：主要股票市場預估 
主要市場預估方面，我們微幅上修三大股市指數 2Q26
收盤價預測，維持全年年底指數預估值，因 SpaceX*的
IPO 順利以及費半等科技股領漲提振市場買盤。(見表 1) 
表 1 預估 2026 年股價報酬表現

---
## Document 486: 伊朗举行已故最高领袖葬礼，何维代表中方出席，沙特代表团意外现身，伊方再提海峡“共管”

Source PDF: all report pdf/伊朗举行已故最高领袖葬礼，何维代表中方出席，沙特代表团意外现身，伊方再提海峡“共管”.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-07-03
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

伊媒称，沙特副外相率代表团 “ 意外 ” 现⾝葬礼仪式，沙特不在受邀代表团名单。伊朗总统和
议⻓分别会⻅何维，伊⽅愿继续通过政治外交途径缓和紧张局势，根据国际法妥善处理霍
尔⽊兹海峡问题。伊朗议⻓称，据伊美谅解备忘录，该海峡应由伊朗和阿曼共同管理，伊
⽅正征求波斯湾沿岸国家意⻅。以总理办公室否认计划暗杀伊朗谈判代表的美媒报道。
摘要：
伊朗已故最⾼领袖阿⾥ · 哈梅内伊的遗体告别仪式于当地时间 7 ⽉ 3 ⽇在德⿊兰正式举⾏。这是被
伊朗视为近年来最重要的国家政治仪式，伊朗最⾼层领导和包括中国在内的多国官⽅代表出
席。
同时，因沙特代表团意外在葬礼活动期间现⾝、伊朗官员再度重申霍尔⽊兹海峡管理的主张，
以及围绕美伊谈判、以伊关系的多项最新表态，哈梅内伊的葬礼也成为观察中东局势下⼀阶段
⾛向的重要窗⼝。
分析⼈⼠认为，与此前外界关注伊朗是否展开新⼀轮报复不同，本周五伊朗释放出的更多是政
治与外交信号：⼀⽅⾯借国葬展⽰国内政治稳定、地区盟友⽀持和外交影响⼒；另⼀⽅⾯继续
围绕霍尔⽊兹海峡、中东安全秩序及未来谈判安排释放政策信号，为后续地区局势演变留下更

多空间。
哈梅内伊遗体告别仪式开启，伊朗最⾼层集体出席
据新华社等国内外多家媒体报道，当地时间 7 ⽉ 3 ⽇周五，哈梅内伊遗体告别仪式在伊朗⾸都德
⿊兰举⾏。
据报道，当地时间周五上午，哈梅内伊灵柩被运抵德⿊兰⼤礼拜堂（ Grand Mosalla ），为期两
天的公众告别仪式正式开启。外国政要、宗教⼈⼠及各界代表陆续前往吊唁，德⿊兰随后将举
⾏持续两天的公众告别活动。
据央视新闻，伊朗总统佩泽希⻬扬、议会议⻓卡利巴夫、外交部⻓阿拉格⻬、司法总监埃杰
伊、最⾼领袖顾问穆赫⾟ · 雷扎伊等伊朗⾼层悉数出席告别仪式。这显⽰，伊朗政治⾼层在这⼀
重⼤时刻保持⾼度⼀致。
央视提到，根据伊朗官⽅此前公布的⽇程安排，哈梅内伊遗体告别仪式之后，还将在德⿊兰、
库姆、⻢什哈德以及伊拉克什叶派圣城纳杰夫和卡尔巴拉举⾏送葬仪式。送葬仪式完成后，遗
体将安葬于⻢什哈德的伊玛⽬礼萨圣陵。
沙特代表团意外现⾝，地区关系缓和再添观察点
除伊朗国内⾼层外，多国代表团也出席此次告别仪式。
据报道，在哈梅内伊告别仪式开始前，沙特代表团出现在德⿊兰，引发外界⼴泛关注。尽管，

但分析认为，代表团出席本⾝反映出近年来伊朗与沙特关系改善的延续，也显⽰海湾国家希望
避免地区局势再次失控。
据报道，沙特副外交⼤⾂ Waleed El Khereiji 率领代表团抵达德⿊兰吊唁。不过，沙特官⽅并未
⾼调宣布有关安排，⽽且根据伊朗官⽅媒体的说法，此前并未预料到他们的到来，因为阿曼和
卡塔尔均在受邀外国代表团名单之列，沙特却不在其中。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

伊朗总统和议⻓分别会⻅中⽅代表何维
同在周五，据央视新闻，全国⼈⼤常委会副委员⻓何维代表中⽅出席在德⿊兰举⾏的伊朗已故
最⾼领袖哈梅内伊葬礼。这体现了中⽅对中伊关系的重视以及对地区和平稳定的持续关注。
据央视，伊朗总统佩泽希⻬扬和议⻓卡利巴夫分别会⻅代表中⽅出席葬礼的何维。
何维表⽰，中⽅对哈梅内伊最⾼领袖不幸遇难表⽰深切哀悼，向伊朗政府和⼈⺠及哈梅内伊最
⾼领袖亲属表⽰诚挚慰问，希望在穆杰塔巴最⾼领袖领导下，伊朗能够尽快恢复安全、稳定、
发展。建交 55 年来，中伊关系保持平稳健康发展。中⽅发展对伊关系的决⼼坚定不移，中伊关
系前进的⽅向不会改变。中⽅愿同伊⽅⼀道努⼒，推动中伊全⾯战略伙伴关系⾏稳致远。
何维表⽰，中⽅对伊美双⽅签署谅解备忘录表⽰欢迎，希望伊美双⽅落实既有成果，维持停⽕
⽌战，保持理性务实，巩固谈判势头。中⽅也希望霍尔⽊兹海峡问题能够得到妥善处理，希望
地区国家和睦相处。
央视提到，伊⽅领导⼈祝贺中国共产党成⽴ 105 周年，感谢中⽅派⾼级别代表出席哈梅内伊葬
礼，表⽰伊⽅将铭记中⽅⻓期以来给予的宝贵⽀持，赞赏和⽀持中国国家主席提出的四⼤全球

倡议，愿同中⽅加强沟通和协调，推动伊中关系迈上新台阶。伊⽅愿继续通过政治外交途径缓
和紧张局势，根据国际法妥善处理霍尔⽊兹海峡问题，同周边国家实现睦邻友好。
分析认为，在以伊冲突刚刚降温背景下，包括中国、沙特等多⽅派员出席，也使此次葬礼具有
超越国内政治仪式的地区外交意义。
伊朗议⻓：霍尔⽊兹海峡应由伊朗和阿曼共同管理
在葬礼举⾏当天，伊朗继续释放有关地区安全秩序的新信号。

### Page 3

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
据新华社援引伊朗媒体当地时间 3 ⽇周五的报道，当天会⻅伊拉克议会议⻓海巴特 · 哈勒布西时，
伊朗伊斯兰议会议⻓卡利巴夫表⽰，近期与美国签署的谅解备忘录已就此作出规定，即霍尔⽊
兹海峡应由伊朗和阿曼两国共同管理。
卡利巴夫表⽰，伊朗正在就此征求包括伊拉克在内的波斯湾沿岸国家的意⻅。卡利巴夫还对哈
勒布西出席伊朗已故最⾼领袖哈梅内伊遗体告别仪式表⽰感谢。
这是伊朗近期围绕霍尔⽊兹海峡管理问题最新⼀次公开表态。据新华社此前援引伊朗媒体 6 ⽉报
道，卡利巴夫曾在 6 ⽉ 17 ⽇表⽰，霍尔⽊兹海峡 “ 永远不会回到以前的状态 ” ，伊朗将在霍尔⽊兹
海峡收取 “ 服务费⽤ ” 。
市场分析认为，与 6 ⽉提出 “ 服务费⽤ ” 构想相⽐，卡利巴夫此次进⼀步提出由伊朗和阿曼共同管
理霍尔⽊兹海峡，意味着伊朗正逐步完善其围绕这⼀全球能源运输要道的管理框架，希望推动
形成以地区国家为主导的海峡治理模式。
霍尔⽊兹海峡承担着全球约五分之⼀海运原油运输，其航运安全和管理机制始终是国际能源市

场关注的焦点。卡利巴夫最新表态，也意味着伊朗仍在持续推进冲突后的地区安全和航运秩序
构想。
以⽅否认暗杀伊朗谈判代表传闻，美伊外交窗⼝仍未关闭
围绕未来外交进程，各⽅最新表态同样受到关注。
据央视新闻，以⾊列总理办公室 3 ⽇周五发表声明，否认美国媒体关于以⾊列计划暗杀伊朗⾼级
谈判代表的报道，指责相关内容完全是 “ 虚假新闻 ” 和 “ 彻底的捏造 ” 。
以⽅上述否认声明针对的是《纽约时报》 7 ⽉ 2 ⽇周四的报道。该报道称，美国官员曾于今年早
些时候间接警告伊朗外⻓阿拉格⻬和议⻓卡利巴夫，称以⾊列可能会试图暗杀他们。美⽅担⼼
以⽅此举会破坏随后的停⽕谈判并引发新⼀轮冲突，因此要求地区其他国家向伊朗转达这⼀警
告。
该报道还提到，在今年 2 ⽉ 28 ⽇美以对伊朗发动突然袭击后，阿拉格⻬和卡利巴夫曾被列为以⽅
⽬标，⽽此前已有两名参与谈判的伊朗⾼级官员被以军炸死。
与此同时，据此前报道，充当美伊会谈斡旋⽅的卡塔尔表⽰，美伊预计将在哈梅内伊葬礼结束
后恢复间接谈判。同样参与斡旋的巴基斯坦也表达了类似预期，希望借葬礼结束后的政治窗⼝

继续推动双⽅对话。
不过，据此前报道，在葬礼开始前，伊朗军⽅曾警告美国和以⾊列不要利⽤葬礼期间发动新的
军事⾏动，否则将⾯临坚决回应。这意味着，尽管外交渠道尚未关闭，但未来⼏天仍将是观察
地区局势是否能够继续降温的重要时间窗⼝。
整体来看，本周五围绕哈梅内伊遗体告别仪式释放的⼀系列政治、外交信号显⽰，伊朗当前⼯
作的重点已逐步由军事应对转向国内政治稳定、地区外交布局以及后续谈判节奏安排。⽽沙特
代表团现⾝、中国派遣政府特使出席、伊朗重申霍尔⽊兹海峡管理主张，以及美伊间接谈判有
望在葬礼后恢复，也共同勾勒出中东局势在冲突暂歇后的新⼀轮博弈⽅向。

### Page 4

市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
72 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 545: 台新-2002-中鋼-20260625

Source PDF: all report pdf/台新-2002-中鋼-20260625.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

請參考末頁之免責宣言說明1

投資評等  買進

中鋼(2002)  
目標價位  23 元

評價偏低， 4Q26 旺季可期

公司治理評鑑排序： 
1 2 3 4 5 6 7

個股基本資料：

徐培勛 
鋼鐵、重電產業 
S1120023@tss-c.com.tw 
 股價評價基礎： 
進入 3Q26 淡季，惟美國基建和 AI 帶動建廠需求強勁，整體報價維持高檔，
4Q26 旺季可期，預估 2026 年稅後 EPS 0.61 元(較同期虧轉盈)，BVPS 19.4
元，給予目標價 23 元(1.2x 2026 BVPS )，買進投資評等，潛在漲幅 19%。

營運近況摘要： 
中鋼成立於 1971 年 ， 為台灣最大一貫作業高爐煉鋼廠(係從鐵礦砂 ，經煉鐵 、
煉鋼，到軋成各式成品的一條龍鋼廠)，集團粗鋼年產約 1600 萬噸，包括中
鋼 4 支高爐約 990 萬噸，100%持股的子公司中龍有電爐及 1、2 號高爐約
600 萬噸 ， 集團鋼品國內市佔率逾50%。2025 年銷售 1125 萬噸(內銷 57%、
外銷 43%)，產品組合：熱軋 47%、冷軋 11%、棒線 12%、塗鍍 12%、半
成品 10%、鋼板 8%。

2Q26 需求旺盛，中鋼調升價格，獲利較同期虧轉盈 
2Q26 因戰爭推升運價及各原物料價格，加上旺季到來，預估出貨 290 萬噸
(YoY+13%)，且 4~6 月熱軋各上漲 1200 元/噸，預估 2Q26 營收 923 億元
(YoY+9%)，毛利率 9%(YoY+8ppts)，稅後 EPS 0.19 元(較同期虧轉盈)。

3Q26 淡季到來，出貨量、報價微幅季減 
3Q26 各地區鋼市展望，美國，6 月最新報價 1249 美元/噸，維持創高態勢，
雖 3Q26 廠商暑休，然整體需求維持強勁。歐洲，7/1 起實施鋼鐵防衛措施
(Safeguard)，年度免稅進口配額減少 1500 萬噸(YoY-47%)，若出超過配額
將課徵 50%關稅，目前歐洲鋼價 790 美元/噸，中鋼出口價580 美元/噸，加
計 50%關稅和 100 美元運費後，歐洲鋼價須超過 970 美元/噸才有出口利
潤，目前中鋼出口到歐洲占總產量 4%，且客戶已提前至 5 月底拉貨完畢，
預期 3Q26 出貨量將衰退。中國，6~8 月進入華中、華北雨季，房屋開工量
將季減。台灣，中鋼有部份鋼品因 6 月大雨將遞延至 7 月出貨，雨季影響需
求，預估 3Q26 報價逐月遞減，須至 4Q26 方能回升，預估 3Q26 出貨 280
萬噸(QoQ-3%)。豐田(Toyota)10 月起將在國瑞汽車觀音廠 生產 Toyota 
Noah 與 Voxy 兩款 MPV，持續由中鋼供應 80%鋼材並銷回日本，雖對出
貨量貢獻不大，亦代表中鋼技術獲日本認可。煤鐵，近期中東戰爭緩解，油
價下跌 ，6 月鐵礦石/煤炭 MoM-7%/+0%， 惟公司認為煤鐵主要供需國家皆
不在中東航道上，預期煤鐵跌價有限，最終回歸各國鋼鐵需求面。 
個股摘要 2002 中鋼
收盤價 19.4 傳產-鋼鐵
近一年低點 17.7 成立日期 1971/12/3
近一年高點 21.3 股息(元) 0.15
日成交量(張) 44,605 殖利率(%) 0.78
20日均量(張) 89,457 負債比率(%) 51.04
日週轉率(%) 0.28 董監持股(%) 20.09
資本額(億) 1,577.3 外資持股(%) 14.06
總市值(億) 3,052.1 投信持股(%) 0.01
成交值(百萬) 859.5 自營持股(%) 2.02
財務數據(百萬元) 2002 中鋼
項目/季度 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 2025
營業收入 83,170 85,097 73,516 75,373 317,155
營業毛利 4,604 579 198 3,644 9,025
營業利益 1,372 -2,615 -3,016 356 -3,904
稅後淨利 243 -1,902 -2,480 -210 -4,349
EPS(元) 0.02 -0.12 -0.16 -0.02 -0.29
毛利率(%) 5.5 0.7 0.3 4.8 2.8
營益率(%) 1.6 -3.1 -4.1 0.5 -1.2
淨利率(%) 1.0 -2.7 -3.9 1.2 -1.1
項目/季度 1Q26 2Q26E 3Q26E 4Q26E 2026E
營業收入 79,162 92,308 88,707 93,066 353,243
營業毛利 2,637 8,180 9,374 11,568 31,759
營業利益 -621 4,618 5,520 7,605 17,122
稅後淨利 -2,452 2,965 3,794 5,314 9,621
EPS(元) -0.16 0.19 0.24 0.34 0.61
毛利率(%) 3.3 8.9 10.6 12.4 9.0
營益率(%) -0.8 5.0 6.2 8.2 4.8
淨利率(%) -2.3 4.0 5.0 6.3 3.4
資料來源：Cmoney
-120%
-100%
-80%
-60%
-40%
-20%
0%
16.5
17
17.5
18
18.5
19
19.5
20
20.5
21
Mar-26 Jun-26
股價 相對加權指數表現
個股報告 June 25, 2026

### Page 2

2 
表一、損益表

表二、股利政策表

單位：NT$ mn 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26 2Q26E 3Q26E 4Q26E 2024 2025 2026E
營業收入 83,170 85,097 73,516 75,373 79,162 92,308 88,707 93,066 360,536 317,155 353,243
營業毛利 4,604 579 198 3,644 2,637 8,180 9,374 11,568 15,061 9,025 31,759
營業費用 3,232 3,194 3,214 3,289 3,258 3,562 3,854 3,963 13,269 12,929 14,637
營業利益 1,372 -2,615 -3,016 356 -621 4,618 5,520 7,605 1,792 -3,904 17,122
業外收支 -254 -71 -96 -360 -346 -71 -96 -360 2,786 -781 -873
稅前淨利 1,118 -2,686 -3,112 -5 -967 4,547 5,424 7,245 4,578 -4,685 16,249
所得稅 304 -369 -222 -892 893 841 1,003 1,340 702 -1,178 4,078
非控制權益–稅後淨利 571 -415 -410 1,097 592 0 0 0 1,898 842 2,550
母公司業主–稅後淨利 243 -1,902 -2,480 -210 -2,452 2,965 3,794 5,314 1,978 -4,349 9,621
普通股股本 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349 157,349
EPS(元) 0.02 -0.12 -0.16 -0.02 -0.16 0.19 0.24 0.34 0.13 -0.29 0.61
財務比率(%)
毛利率 5.5 0.7 0.3 4.8 3.3 8.9 10.6 12.4 4.2 2.8 9.0
費用率 3.9 3.8 4.4 4.4 4.1 3.9 4.3 4.3 3.7 4.1 4.1
營益率 1.6 -3.1 -4.1 0.5 -0.8 5.0 6.2 8.2 0.5 -1.2 4.8
稅後淨利率 1.0 -2.7 -3.9 1.2 -2.3 4.0 5.0 6.3 1.1 -1.1 3.4
QoQ(%)
營業收入 -4.0 2.3 -13.6 2.5 5.0 16.6 -3.9 4.9
營業利益 45.6 盈轉虧 續虧 虧轉盈 盈轉虧 虧轉盈 19.5 37.8
稅前淨利 19.4 盈轉虧 續虧 續虧 續虧 虧轉盈 19.3 33.6
稅後淨利 156.5 盈轉虧 續虧 續虧 續虧 虧轉盈 27.9 40.1
YoY(%)
營業收入 -11.3 -10.0 -14.1 -13.0 -4.8 8.5 20.7 23.5 -0.8 -12.0 11.4
營業利益 78.5 盈轉虧 續虧 -62.3 盈轉虧 虧轉盈 虧轉盈 2,038.3 -50.0 盈轉虧 虧轉盈
稅前淨利 -24.4 盈轉虧 盈轉虧 盈轉虧 盈轉虧 虧轉盈 虧轉盈 虧轉盈 -0.3 盈轉虧 虧轉盈
稅後淨利 -62.0 盈轉虧 續虧 盈轉虧 盈轉虧 虧轉盈 虧轉盈 虧轉盈 17.6 盈轉虧 虧轉盈
資料來源：Cmoney、台新投顧預估
年度 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
公告基本每股盈餘(元) 1.04 1.09 1.58 0.57 0.05 4.02 1.15 0.11 0.13 -0.29
公積配股(元) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
盈餘配股(元) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
股票股利合計(元) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
公積配息(元) 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
盈餘配息(元) 0.85 0.88 1.00 0.50 0.30 3.10 1.00 0.35 0.33 0.15
現金股利合計(元) 0.85 0.88 1.00 0.50 0.30 3.10 1.00 0.35 0.33 0.15
股票股利發放率(%) 0.0 0.0 0.00 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
現金股利發放率(%) 81.7 80.7 63.29 87.7 600.0 77.1 87.0 318.2 253.9 -51.7
股利發放率(%) 81.7 80.7 63.29 87.7 600.0 77.1 87.0 318.2 253.9 -51.7
現金股利殖利率(%) 3.3 3.5 4.00 2.4 0.8 9.9 3.4 1.5 1.7 0.8
股東會日期 2017/6/21 2018/6/21 2019/6/19 2020/6/19 2021/8/30 2022/6/17 2023/6/16 2024/6/19 2025/6/19 2026/5/22
除權日
除息日 2017/7/26 2018/7/26 2019/7/25 2020/7/24 2021/8/31 2022/7/26 2023/7/26 2024/7/26 2025/7/24 2026/7/24
領股日期
領息日期 2017/8/25 2018/8/24 2019/8/27 2020/8/27 2021/9/17 2022/8/26 2023/8/25 2024/8/28 2025/8/27 2026/8/26
資料來源：CMoney, 台新投顧預估&彙整。

### Page 3

3 
投資評等定義如下 
強力買進：預估未來 1 年內目標價格和收盤價格差距+20%以上 
買進：預估未來 1 年內目標價格和收盤價格差距在+10%~+20%之間 
中立：預估未來 1 年內目標價格和收盤價格差距在正負 10%之間 
賣出：預估未來 1 年內目標價格和收盤價格差距-10%以上

證交所及櫃買中心公司治理評鑑級距如下： 
級距 1 級距 2 級距 3 級距 4 級距 5 級距 6 級距 7 
前 5% 6%~20% 21%~35% 36%~50% 51%~65% 66%~80% 81%~100% 
說明： 
一、 公司治理評鑑成績高者顯示其公司治理較符合主管機關要求，適合 1 年以上之長期投資或存股標的，與投資評等(強力買進等)僅 1
年內之投資建議不同。 
二、 依臺灣證券交易所及證券櫃檯買賣中心委託證券暨期貨市場發展基金會辦理的公司治理評鑑，每年將受評公司區分為 「上市公司」 、
「上櫃公司」 兩組，由70 項指標(1.維護股東權益及平等對待股東 11 項，占 16%，2.強化董事會結構與運作 18 項，占 25%，3.提
升資訊透明度 7 項，占 10%，4.推動永續發展 34 項，占 49%)編製而成，各組依評鑑成績高低分別公布七級距之公司名單，台新
投顧係引用民國 114(2025)年度之評鑑結果資料。 
三、 轉登證基會警語：本評鑑系統使用之評鑑方法受有限制，評鑑工作善盡相當之注意義務以確認各評鑑指標之執行及資訊透明，惟評
鑑結果僅顯示該企業之公司治理在本評鑑指標下之運作狀況，不宜過度仰賴，使用者必須自行衡量資訊的價值，主辦單位及執行單
位不為使用者之資訊決策及結果負擔任何責任。

---
## Document 554: 四半期見通し『アジア・新興国～中東情勢の緊迫化の行方に左右される展開が続く～』(2026年7月号)

Source PDF: all report pdf/四半期見通し『アジア・新興国～中東情勢の緊迫化の行方に左右される展開が続く～』(2026年7月号).pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-06-22
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

アジア ・ 新興国
～中東情勢の緊迫化の行方に左右される展開が続く～
中国当局は2026年 ３ 月に開催した全人代において、
2026年の経済成長率目標を 「4.5～5.0％」 に引き下げる方
針を示した。 背景には、 トランプ関税の本格発動による世界
経済への悪影響が外需の足かせとなることが懸念される
ほか、 不動産不況の長期化や若年層を中心とする雇用不安
が内需の重しとなるなど、 国内外双方で景気の下押し圧力
が山積しているためである。
しかし、 １ ～ ３ 月期の実質Ｇ Ｄ Ｐ 成長率は前年同期比＋
5.0％と前期 （同＋4.5％） から伸びが加速し、 ３ 四半期ぶりに
５ ％台の成長となった。 前期比年率ベースの成長率も＋
5.3％と前期 （同＋4.9％） から加速し、 ５ 四半期ぶりの高い伸
びを記録した。 この結果、 2026年の中国経済は良好なス
ター トを切った。 外需が堅調に推移する一方、 内需は力強さ
を欠くなど、 両者の動きは対照的であり、 足元の景気は外
需依存をさらに強めている。

５ 月の米中首脳会談は、 金融市場の期待を大きく下回る
内容になったと考えられる。 一方で、 米中摩擦が一段と激化
する事態は回避されており、 今後の貿易 ・ 投資に関する協議
を経て米中貿易がさらに持ち直せば、 中国経済にと って外
需を下支えする要因となると期待される。
一方、 不動産市況は一部の大都市で持ち直しの動きがみ
られるものの、 地方都市を中心に底打ちの兆しは依然と し
て乏しい。 中東情勢の緊迫化を受けた原油をはじめとする
商品市況の上昇により、 中国でも企業部門はインフレ圧力
に直面している。 一方で、 個人消費の先行きに不透明感が
残るなか、 最終製品への価格転嫁は進まず、 収益環境の悪
化という課題に直面している。 先行きの中国景気は、 引き
続き供給サイ ドがけん引役となる一方、 需要は内需を中心
に力強さを欠くなど 「 Ｋ 字型」 の様相を呈し、 業種や主体によ
る格差を伴う不均衡な成長が続く。
2026年の中国経済は良好なスター トを切った
中国経済は外需への依存を強める展開が続く

アジア新興国の多くは構造的に外需依存度が相対的に
高く、 輸出全体に占める対米輸出比率が高い国を中心に、
トランプ関税による悪影響が懸念されていた。 しかし、 各国
に対する米国の関税率はおおむね同水準にとどまるなど、
関税率の差が競争力に大きな影響を及ぼす事態は回避さ
れている。 米中摩擦の緩和も、 構造的に外需依存度が高い
アジア新興国にと って追い風となり得る。 さらに、 世界的なＡ
Ｉ 関連投資の拡大を追い風と して輸出が押し上げられるな
ど、 景気を下支えする動きも確認されている。 このため、 ア
ジア新興国を取り巻く外需環境は改善に向かっている。
一方で、 中東情勢の緊迫化を受けた原油などエネルギー
資源価格の上昇は、 それらの輸入を中東に依存するアジア
新興国経済にと って大きな下押し要因となっている。
原油高はインフレの進行に加え、 対外収支の悪化を警戒
した資金流出が通貨安を招き、 輸入インフレ圧力も高まっ
ている。 さらに、 化学肥料価格の上昇は農業生産に悪影響
を与えることが懸念されている。 2026年はスーパーエル

ニーニ ョの発生が予想されており、 異常気象の発生による
悪影響も重なり、 食料インフレも警戒されている。 したがっ
て、 生活必需品を中心にインフレが進行する可能性が高
まっている。 これを受け、 中央銀行は金融引き締めを迫られ
ている。 内需依存度の高いアジア新興国にと っては、 インフ
レと金融引き締めが併存し、 景気の足かせとなる材料は少
なくない。 一方、 中東関連の貿易活動の停滞は、 中東向け
輸出比率が高い国々の景気を下押しすることが避けられ
ない。 中東からの移民送金への依存度が高い南アジア諸
国などでは、 移民送金の減少による悪影響が顕在化する可
能性にも注意が必要である。
AI関連需要の拡大がアジア新興国経済を支援
中東情勢はアジア新興国に悪影響を与える懸念
経済調査部　主席エコノミス ト　西濵 徹（にしはま とおる）
8第一ライフ研レポー ト 2026.07
内外経済ウォッチ四半期見通し
四半期見通し

---
## Document 594: 宏观量化经济指数周报：6月社零或仍旧承压但降幅有望收窄

Source PDF: all report pdf/宏观量化经济指数周报：6月社零或仍旧承压但降幅有望收窄.pdf
Report source: 东吴证券
Date: 2026-07-06
Pages: 15
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

证券研究报告·宏观报告·宏观周报

东吴证券研究所

2026 年 07 月 05 日

证券分析师  芦哲 
执业证书：S0600524110003 
 luzhe@dwzq.com.cn 
证券分析师  李昌萌 
执业证书：S0600524120007 
 lichm@dwzq.com.cn

相关研究  
《恒生科技 ETF，2026 年 6 月复盘及
7 月展望》 
2026-07-03 
《黄金 ETF，2026 年 6 月复盘与 7 月
展望》 
2026-07-03

[Table_Tag]    
[Table_Summary] 观点 
◼ 周度 ECI 指数：从周度数据来看，截至 2026 年 7 月 5 日，本周 ECI 供
给指数为 50.09%，较上周环比回升 0.01 个百分点；ECI 需求指数为
49.92%，较上周回升 0.01 个百分点。从分项来看， ECI 投资指数为
49.92%，较上周回升 0.01 个百分点；ECI 消费指数为 49.72%，较上周
环比持平；ECI 出口指数为 50.21%，较上周环比持平。 
◼ 月度 ECI 指数：从 7 月第一周的高频数据来看，ECI 供给指数为 50.09%，
较 6 月回升 0.01 个百分点；ECI 需求指数为 49.92%，较 6 月回落 0.01
个百分点。从分项来看，ECI 投资指数为 49.92%，较 6 月环比持平；
ECI 消费指数为 49.72%，较 6 月回落 0.03 个百分点；ECI 出口指数为
50.21%，较 6 月回落 0.01 个百分点。 
◼ 经济高频数据： 
➢ 生产：工业生产保持平稳运行。6 月份以来，工业生产整体保持平稳修
复的态势，6 月 PMI 生产指数录得 51.4%，较 5 月份进一步回暖，且在
美伊冲突扰动的逐步减弱下， 企业原材料购进价格指数和出厂价格指数
均有所回落。 从高频数据来看， 除PTA 开工率低于去年同期以外， 其他
主要行业开工率均较去年同期较为接近。 
➢ 消费：暑期临近居民出行数据边际回暖。服务消费方面， 随着暑期消费
旺季的逐步临近，居民出行数据呈现边际回暖的趋势，6 月下旬以来航
班执飞率和电影票房数据均有所回升， 但同比来看略低于去年同期。 商
品消费方面，6 月乘用车零售景气度仍相对偏弱，6 月零售虽然环比走
强，但同比仍面临延续走弱的压力。 
➢ 地产：30 大中城市商品房成交有所回暖。本周（6 月 27 日-7 月 3 日）
30 大中城市商品房成交面积 243.1 万平方米， 录得自4 月初以来新高其
中一线城市环比上周回升 19.5%，而二线、三线城市分别环比上周回升
8.5%和 6.6%。本周 18 城市二手房商品房成交面积环比上周回落 7.0%，
较去年同期回升 7.4% 
➢ 出口：6 月出口增速或小幅回落但保持较强韧性。6 月份 AI 对于全球需
求的拉动仍在延续，韩国 6 月份出口增速续创 70.9%的新高、6 月美国
PMI 也录得 55.7%的 22 年 5 月以来新高。全球需求的高景气也反映在
我国 6 月份的 PMI 数据中，6 月 PMI 新出口订单回升 1.5 个百分点至
50.1%，且是 2017 年以来首次 6 月份新出口订单指数位于荣枯线以上。
整体来看， 考虑到去年同期偏高的基数， 我们预计6 月出口增速可能较
5 月小幅回落但仍保持较强韧性。 
➢ 物价：6 月份食品价格整体仍偏弱。6 月份猪肉和蔬菜价格整体仍处于
偏弱态势，其中猪肉价格较 5 月进一步下行而蔬菜价格与 5 月基本持
平， 同时6 月份油价较 5 月边际有所回落， 因此整体来看我们预计 6 月
份 CPI 环比将延续 5 月小幅回落的态势。 
➢ 整体来看，在一季度开门红后， 二季度包括社零和固投在内的部分经济
指标有所下行， 而在 AI 带动下出口则较一季度进一步回暖， 经济K 型
分化的特征有所凸显，如果要实现消费和地产等旧经济私人需求部门追
赶新经济， 需要宏观政策给予更多支持，可以关注本月政治局会议的政
策部署。 
◼ 风险提示：美国货币政策仍有不确定性；政策出台力度低于市场预期；
房地产改善的持续性待观察。

### Page 2

2 / 15

内容目录 
1. 本周双指数概览 .................................................................................................................................. 5 
1.1. ECI 指数：7 月初供给端延续修复态势 ................................................................................... 5 
1.2. ELI 指数：本周 ELI 指数较上周回升 0.09 个百分点 ............................................................. 6 
2. 本周高频数据概览 .............................................................................................................................. 7 
2.1. 工业生产：7 月初工业生产保持平稳运行.............................................................................. 7 
2.2. 消费：居民出行数据略低于去年同期..................................................................................... 8 
2.3. 投资：基建实物工作量仍处于相对低位............................................................................... 10 
2.4. 出口：韩国 6 月出口增速续创新高....................................................................................... 11 
2.5. 通胀：贵金属价格边际有所回暖........................................................................................... 12 
2.6. 流动性：本周货币净回笼 15870 亿元................................................................................... 13 
3. 本周政策一览 .................................................................................................................................... 14 
4. 风险提示 ............................................................................................................................................ 14

### Page 3

3 / 15

图表目录 
图 1： 本周 ECI 供给指数、需求指数均小幅回升（%） ................................................................... 5 
图 2： 本周实体经济流动性小幅回升（%） ....................................................................................... 6 
图 3： 本周汽车轮胎开工率小幅回升（%） ....................................................................................... 7 
图 4： 本周全国高炉开工率环比小幅回升（%） ............................................................................... 7 
图 5： 汽车消费指数走势（点）........................................................................................................... 9 
图 6： 本周国内航班执飞率小幅回升（%） ....................................................................................... 9 
图 7： 上周石油沥青装置开工率小幅回升（%） ............................................................................. 10 
图 8： 本周 30 大中城市商品房成交面积环比回升........................................................................... 10 
图 9： 本周集装箱运价指数小幅回升................................................................................................. 11 
图 10： 韩国出口金额同比增速走势（%） ....................................................................................... 11 
图 11： 主要食品价格走势（元/公斤） .............................................................................................. 12 
图 12： 主要大宗商品价格走势........................................................................................................... 12 
图 13： 公开市场操作走势（亿元）................................................................................................... 13 
图 14： 主要市场利率走势（%） ....................................................................................................... 13

表 1： 一表速览本周高频数据变化....................................................................................................... 4 
表 2： ECI 指数月度走势（%） ............................................................................................................ 6 
表 3： 工业生产重要高频数据走势....................................................................................................... 7 
表 4： 消费重要高频数据走势............................................................................................................... 8 
表 5： 家电消费高频数据（%） ........................................................................................................... 8 
表 6： 投资重要高频数据走势............................................................................................................. 10 
表 7： 出口重要高频数据走势............................................................................................................. 11 
表 8： 通胀重要高频数据走势............................................................................................................. 12 
表 9： 本周（6 月 29 日-7 月 5 日）政策梳理 ................................................................................... 14

### Page 4

4 / 15 
表1：一表速览本周高频数据变化 
类别 指标名称 单位 更新时间 最新值 上期值 环比变动 
前一年同期
值 
同比变动 
工业
生产 
开工率:汽车轮胎:全钢胎 % 2026-07-02 63.36  60.50  2.86  63.75  (0.39) 
焦炉生产率:国内独立焦化厂 % 2026-07-03 73.14  73.37  (0.23) 73.18  (0.04) 
螺纹钢产量:建筑钢材钢铁企业 万吨 2026-07-03 216.52  213.25  3.27  207.57  8.95  
负荷率:沿海七省电厂 % 2026-06-26 73.86  75.57  (1.71) 86.71  (12.86) 
消费 
当周日均销量:乘用车:厂家零售 辆 2026-06-21 54157.00  43726.00  10431.00  80525.00  (26368.00) 
航班当周执飞率 % 2026-07-04 85.82  83.47  2.35  88.72  (2.90) 
地铁日均客运量 万人 2026-07-03 7244.18  7916.71  (672.53) 8146.30  (902.12) 
票房收入 亿元 2026-07-04 4.77  3.91  0.86  7.10  (2.34) 
基建 
开工率:石油沥青装置 % 2026-07-01 15.90  15.80  0.10  31.50  (15.60) 
水泥发运率:全国:当周值 % 2026-07-03 41.49  41.49  0.00  39.90  1.59  
成交量:建筑钢材 吨 2026-07-03 90509.4  90935.2  (425.8) 106801.2  (16291.8) 
表观需求:螺纹钢 万吨 2026-07-03 210.13  188.44  21.69  206.05  4.08  
地产 
100 大中城市:供应土地占地面积 万平方米 2026-06-28 1140.31  959.35  180.96  1556.15  (415.85) 
30 大中城市:商品房成交面积 万平方米 2026-07-03 243.06  218.46  24.59  263.47  (20.42) 
18 城:二手房销售面积 万平方米 2026-07-03 246.68  265.20  (18.52) 229.73  16.95  
出口 
SCFI:综合指数 / 2026-07-03 3326.87  3239.64  87.23  1861.51  1465.36  
波罗的海干散货指数 / 2026-07-04 2584.00  2620.00  (36.00) 1483.60  1100.40  
韩国:前 20 日出口总额:同比 % 2026-07-01 70.90  53.40  17.50  4.30  66.60  
监测港口货物吞吐量 万吨 2026-06-28 27027.90  26218.80  809.10  27435.40  (407.50) 
物价 
平均批发价:猪肉 元/公斤 2026-07-04 14.47  14.46  0.01  20.38  (5.91) 
现货价(伦敦市场):黄金:美元 美元/盎司 2026-07-03 4164.15  4072.05  92.10  3331.90  832.25  
现货结算价:LME 铜 美元/吨 2026-07-02 13202.00  13530.50  (328.50) 10051.00  3151.00  
期货结算价(活跃合约):螺纹钢 元/吨 2026-07-03 3065.00  3091.00  (26.00) 2990.00  75.00  
期货结算价(连续):布伦特原油 美元/桶 2026-07-03 72.12  71.99  0.13  68.30  3.82  
数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

### Page 5

5 / 15 
1.   本周双指数概览 
1.1.   ECI 指数：7 月初供给端延续修复态势 
从周度数据来看，截至 2026 年 7 月 5 日，本周 ECI 供给指数为 50.09%，较上周环
比回升 0.01 个百分点；ECI 需求指数为 49.92%，较上周回升 0.01 个百分点。从分项来
看，ECI 投资指数为 49.92%，较上周回升 0.01 个百分点；ECI 消费指数为 49.72%，较
上周环比持平；ECI 出口指数为 50.21%，较上周环比持平。 
图1：本周 ECI 供给指数、需求指数均小幅回升（%）

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所测算 
从 7 月第一周的高频数据来看，ECI 供给指数为 50.09%，较 6 月回升 0.01 个百分
点；ECI 需求指数为 49.92%，较6 月回落 0.01 个百分点。 从分项来看，ECI 投资指数为
49.92%，较6 月环比持平；ECI 消费指数为 49.72%，较6 月回落 0.03 个百分点；ECI 出
口指数为 50.21%，较 6 月回落 0.01 个百分点。

49.5
50.0
50.5
51.0
ECI供给指数 ECI需求指数

### Page 6

6 / 15 
表2：ECI 指数月度走势（%）

ECI 供给 
指数 
ECI 投资 
指数 
ECI 消费 
指数 
ECI 出口 
指数 
ECI 需求 
指数 ECI 指数 
2026 年 7 月 50.09 49.92 49.72 50.21 49.92 49.92 
2026 年 6 月 50.08 49.92 49.75 50.22 49.93 49.93 
2026 年 5 月 50.04 49.92 49.77 50.22 49.92 49.92 
2026 年 4 月 50.07 49.91 49.72 50.17 49.89 49.89 
2026 年 3 月 50.02 49.91 49.66 50.20 49.87 49.87 
2026 年 2 月 50.00 49.94 49.66 50.22 49.88 49.88 
2026 年 1 月 50.02 49.85 49.65 50.21 49.84 49.84 
2025 年 12 月 49.93 49.86 49.66 50.21 49.85 49.85 
2025 年 11 月 49.96 49.88 49.67 50.23 49.88 49.88 
2025 年 10 月 50.00 49.91 49.72 50.21 49.90 49.90 
2025 年 9 月 50.03 49.92 49.70 50.22 49.91 49.91 
2025 年 8 月 50.07 49.91 49.70 50.20 49.89 49.89 
数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所测算 
注：2026 年 6 月数据截至 2026 年 7 月 5 日

1.2.   ELI 指数：本周 ELI 指数较上周回升 0.09 个百分点 
截至 2026 年 7 月 5 日，本周 ELI 指数为-0.34%，较上周回升 0.09 个百分点。 
图2：本周实体经济流动性小幅回升（%）

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所测算

(2)
(1)
0
1
2
ELI指数（%）

### Page 7

7 / 15 
2.   本周高频数据概览 
2.1.   工业生产：7 月初工业生产保持平稳运行 
开工率方面，本周主要行业开工率各有升降。 其中本周汽车全/半钢胎开工率为 63.36%
和 65.78%， 分别环比回升 2.86 个百分点和 3.00 个百分点；本周 PTA开工率录得 60.71%，
环比回落 6.56 个百分点，较 2025 年同期回落 18.42 个百分点；本周钢厂高炉开工率录
得 83.97%，环比回落 0.46 个百分点，较 2025 年同期回升 0.53 个百分点。 
库存和产量方面，本周六港口炼焦煤库存合计 275.05 万吨，环比回落 3.00 万吨；
本周主要钢厂建筑钢材库存录得 256.84 万吨，环比回落 1.12 万吨；本周建筑钢材企业
螺纹钢产量录得 216.52 万吨，环比回升 3.27 万吨。 
负荷率方面，6 月 26 日沿海七省电厂负荷率均值录得 73.86%，环比回落 1.71 个百
分点，较 2025 年同期回落 12.86 个百分点。 
表3：工业生产重要高频数据走势 
类别 指标名称 单位 更新时间 最新值 上期值 
环比数值
变化 
前一年同期
值 
同比数值
变化 
开工率 
开工率:汽车轮胎:全钢胎 % 2026-07-02 63.36  60.50  2.86  63.75  (0.39) 
开工率:汽车轮胎:半钢胎 % 2026-07-02 65.78  62.78  3.00  70.41  (4.63) 
焦炉生产率:国内独立焦化厂 % 2026-07-03 73.14  73.37  (0.23) 73.18  (0.04) 
开工率:PTA:国内 % 2026-07-02 60.71  67.27  (6.56) 79.13  (18.42) 
高炉开工率(247 家):全国 % 2026-07-03 83.97  84.43  (0.46) 83.44  0.53  
库存&产
量 
库存:铁矿石:港口合计 万吨 2026-07-04 16706.81  16789.18  (82.37) 13874.82  2831.99  
炼焦煤库存:六港口合计 万吨 2026-07-04 275.05  278.05  (3.00) 299.73  (24.68) 
主要钢厂库存:建筑钢材 万吨 2026-07-04 256.84  257.96  (1.12) 222.14  34.70  
螺纹钢产量：建筑钢材企业 万吨 2026-07-03 216.52 213.25 3.27  207.57 8.95  
负荷率 负荷率:沿海七省电厂 % 2026-06-26 73.86  75.57  (1.71) 86.71  (12.86) 
数据来源：WIND，CEIC，东吴证券研究所     
图3：本周汽车轮胎开工率小幅回升（%）  图4：本周全国高炉开工率环比小幅回升（%）

数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所 
0
20
40
60
80
100
开工率:汽车轮胎:全钢胎
开工率:汽车轮胎:半钢胎
70
75
80
85
90
高炉开工率(247家):全国

### Page 8

8 / 15 
2.2.   消费：居民出行数据略低于去年同期 
乘用车消费方面，6 月 21 日乘用车当周日均销量录得 54157 辆，较 2025 年同期回
落 26368 辆。根据乘联会发布的最新数据，6 月 1-30 日乘用车市场零售录得 165.1 万辆，
同比 2025 年同期下降 21.0%，环比上月同期增长 9.0%，其中新能源车市场零售录得
103.7 万辆，同比 2025 年同期下降 7.0%，环比上月同期增长 9.0%。 
家电消费方面，6 月 22 日- 6 月 28 日家电线上零售额环比均录得负增长，主因前期
618 活动的逐步退出，年内多数家电线上零售额累计同比增速仍录得负增长。 
人员流动方面，本周航班执飞率均值为 85.82%，环比回升 2.35 个百分点，较 2025
年同期回落 2.90 个百分点。地铁日均客运量录得 7244.18 万人，环比回落 672.53 万人，
较 2025 年同期回落 902.12 万人。 
票房方面，本周票房收入录得4.77 亿元，环比回升 0.86 亿元，较 2025 年同期回落
2.34 亿元；本周观影人次录得 1314.16 万人，环比回升 245.50 万人，较 2025 年同期回
落 34.84 万人。 
表4：消费重要高频数据走势 
类别 指标名称 单位 更新时间 最新值 上期值 环比变动 
前一年同期
值 
同比变动 
乘用车 
当周日均销量:乘用车:厂家零售 辆 2026-06-21 54157.00  43726.00  10431.00  80525.00  (26368.00) 
汽车消费指数 点 2026-06-30 75.30  81.00  (5.70) 75.00  0.30  
价格指数 柯桥纺织:价格指数:总类 点 2026-06-29 106.50  106.51  (0.01) 105.51  0.99  
人员流动 
航班当周执飞率 % 2026-07-04 85.82  83.47  2.35  88.72  (2.90) 
地铁日均客运量 万人 2026-07-03 7244.18  7916.71  (672.53) 8146.30  (902.12) 
票房 
票房收入 亿元 2026-07-04 4.77  3.91  0.86  7.10  (2.34) 
观影人次 万人 2026-07-04 1314.16  1068.66  245.50  1349.00  (34.84) 
数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

表5：家电消费高频数据（%） 
类别 销额同比 销额环比 
年累计同比
（销售额） 
类别 销额同比 销额环比 
年累计同比
（销售额） 
彩电 
冰箱 
(3.17) (72.54) (13.11) 洗碗机 6.23  (88.55) 16.68  
(2.55) (63.76) (3.79) 扫地机器人 (9.32) (87.95) (7.20) 
空调 
洗衣机 
(42.92) (64.82) (25.83) 净化器 10.35  (65.16) 2.03  
(10.68) (71.40) (1.76) 净水器 (35.49) (86.71) (21.94) 
数据来源：奥维云网小程序，东吴证券研究所     
注：数据区间为 6 月 22 日-6 月 28 日

### Page 9

9 / 15 
图5：汽车消费指数走势（点）  图6：本周国内航班执飞率小幅回升（%）

数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

0
20
40
60
80
100
120
汽车消费指数
70
80
90
100
中国:国内航班(不含港澳台):执飞率

### Page 10

10 / 15 
2.3.   投资：基建实物工作量仍处于相对低位 
基建投资方面，2026 年 7 月 1 日石油沥青装置开工率录得 15.90%，环比回升 0.10
个百分点，较 2025 年同期回落 15.60 个百分点；2026 年 7 月 3 日全国水泥发运率录得
41.49%，环比持平上周，较 2025 年回升 1.59 个百分点。2026 年 7 月 3 日螺纹钢和建材
表观需求分别录得 210.13 万吨和 290.24 万吨，分别环比回升 21.69 万吨和 22.48 万吨。 
房地产投资方面，上周 100 大中城市供应土地占地面积录得 1140.31 万平方米，环
比回升 18.86%；本周 30 大中城市商品房成交面积录得243.06 万平方米， 环比回升 11.26%；
本周 18 城二手房成交面积录得 246.68 万平方米，环比回落 7.00%。 
表6：投资重要高频数据走势 
类别 指标名称 单位 更新时间 最新值 上期值 
环比数值
变化 
前一年同期
值 
同比数值
变化 
基建 
相关 
开工率:石油沥青装置 % 2026-07-01 15.90  15.80  0.10  31.50  (15.60) 
水泥发运率:全国:当周值 % 2026-07-03 41.49  41.49  0.00  39.90  1.59  
成交量:建筑钢材 吨 2026-07-03 90509.4 90935.2 (425.80) 106801.2 (16291.80) 
表观需求:螺纹钢 万吨 2026-07-03 210.13 188.44 21.69  206.05 4.08  
表观需求:建材 万吨 2026-07-03 290.24 267.76 22.48  303.11 (12.87) 
房地产 
相关 
100 大中城市:供应土地占地面积 万平方米 2026-06-28 1140.31  959.35  180.96  1556.15  (415.85) 
30 大中城市:商品房成交面积 万平方米 2026-07-03 243.06  218.46  24.59  263.47  (20.42) 
18 城:二手房成交面积 万平方米 2026-07-03 246.68  265.20  (18.52) 229.73  16.95  
二手房出售挂牌量指数 201412=100 2026-06-22 1.21 1.22 (0.01) 14.01 (12.80) 
二手房出售挂牌价指数 201412=100 2026-06-22 142.22 142.31 (0.09) 154.21 (11.99) 
市场价:普通硅酸盐水泥 元/吨 2026-06-30 259.10  260.20  (1.10) 292.10  (33.00) 
市场价:浮法平板玻璃 元/吨 2026-06-30 1113.50  1115.20  (1.70) 1200.00  (86.50) 
数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

图7：上周石油沥青装置开工率小幅回升（%）  图8：本周 30 大中城市商品房成交面积环比回 升

数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

10
20
30
40
50
60
开工率:石油沥青装置
0
100
200
300
400
500
30大中城市:商品房成交面积:当周值
（万平方米）

### Page 11

11 / 15 
2.4.   出口：韩国 6 月出口增速续创新高 
出口价格方面，本周上海/中国出口集装箱运价指数分别录得 3326.87 点和 1811.15
点， 分别环比回升 87.23 点和 100.68 点；本周波罗的海干散货指数均值录得 2584.00 点，
环比回落 36.00 点。 
出口数量方面， 韩国6 月出口总额同比增速录得 70.90%，较 5 月回升 17.50 个百分
点，较 2025 年同期回升 66.60 个百分点。国内方面，2026 年 6 月 22 日-2026 年 6 月 28
日监测港口累计完成货物吞吐量录得 27027.90 万吨， 环比回升 3.09%。本周二十大港口
离港船舶数量录得 23922 艘，环比回升 1234 艘，较去年同期回落 2482 艘。 
表7：出口重要高频数据走势 
类别 指标名称 单位 更新时间 最新值 上期值 
环比数值
变化 
前一年同期
值 
同比数值
变化 
出口价 
SCFI:综合指数 / 2026-07-03 3326.87  3239.64  87.23  1861.51  1465.36  
CCFI:综合指数 / 2026-07-03 1811.15  1710.47  100.68  1369.34  441.81  
波罗的海干散货指数 / 2026-07-04 2584.00  2620.00  (36.00) 1483.60  1100.40  
出口量 
韩国:出口总额:同比 % 2026-07-01 70.90  53.40  17.50  4.30  66.60  
监测港口货物吞吐量 万吨 2026-06-28 27027.90  26218.80  809.10  27435.40  (407.50) 
二十大港口:离港船舶数量 艘 2026-07-03 23922.00  22688.00  1234.00  26404.00  (2482.00) 
数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

图9：本周集装箱运价指数小幅回升  图10：韩国出口金额同比增速走势（%）

数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
SCFI:综合指数 CCFI:综合指数
（2009年10月16日=1000）
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
韩国:出口总额:同比

### Page 12

12 / 15 
2.5.   通胀：贵金属价格边际有所回暖 
食品方面，本周猪肉平均批发价录得 14.47 元/公斤，环比回升 0.01 元/公斤；本周
28 种重点监测蔬菜平均批发价录得 4.20 元/公斤，环比回落 0.02 元/公斤。 
贵金属方面，本周现货黄金价格录得 4164.15 美元/盎司，环比回升 92.10 美元/盎
司；本周现货白银价格录得 62.26 美元/盎司，环比回升 3.88 美元/盎司。 
基本金属方面，本周 LME 铜、铝期货结算价分别录得 13202.0 美元/吨和 3061.5 美
元/吨， 分别环比回落 328.5 美元/吨和 338.5 美元/吨；本周螺纹钢期货结算价录得 3065.0
元/吨，环比回落 26.0 元/吨。 
原油方面，本周布伦特原油期货结算价为 72.12 美元/桶，环比回升 0.13 美元/桶。 
表8：通胀重要高频数据走势 
类别 指标名称 单位 更新时间 最新值 上期值 
环比数值
变化 
前一年同期
值 
同比数值
变化 
食品 
平均批发价:猪肉 元/公斤 2026-07-04 14.47  14.46  0.01  20.38  (5.91) 
平均批发价:28 种重点监测蔬菜 元/公斤 2026-07-04 4.20  4.22  (0.02) 4.35  (0.14) 
贵金属 
现货价(伦敦市场):黄金:美元 美元/盎司 2026-07-03 4164.15  4072.05  92.10  3331.90  832.25  
现货价(伦敦市场):白银:美元 美元/盎司 2026-07-03 62.26  58.38  3.88  36.89  25.37  
基本金
属 
现货结算价:LME 铜 美元/吨 2026-07-02 13202.00  13530.50  (328.50) 10051.00  3151.00  
现货结算价:LME 铝 美元/吨 2026-07-02 3061.50  3400.00  (338.50) 2583.00  478.50  
期货结算价(活跃合约):螺纹钢 元/吨 2026-07-03 3065.00  3091.00  (26.00) 2990.00  75.00  
原油 期货结算价(连续):布伦特原油 美元/桶 2026-07-03 72.12  71.99  0.13  68.30  3.82  
数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

图11：主要食品价格走势（元/公斤）  图12：主要大宗商品价格走势

数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

4
5
6
7
10
15
20
25
30
平均批发价:猪肉:周:平均值
平均批发价:28种重点监测蔬菜:周:平均值（右）
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
期货结算价(连续):布伦特原油
现货价(伦敦市场):黄金:美元（右）
（美元/桶） （美元/盎司）

### Page 13

13 / 15 
2.6.   流动性：本周货币净回笼 15870 亿元 
公开市场操作方面，本周央行进行 15785.0 亿元逆回购操作，有 31655.0 亿元逆回
购到期，当周货币净回笼 15870.0 亿元。 
受到政策及资金面变化影响，本周 7 天 shibor 利率小幅回落，从周初的 1.4500%回
落至周末的 1.3960%；本周 10 年期国债收益率小幅回落， 从周初的1.7482%回落至周末
的 1.7423%。 
图13：公开市场操作走势（亿元）

数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

图14：主要市场利率走势（%）

数据来源：WIND，东吴证券研究所

-25,000
-20,000
-15,000
-10,000
-5,000
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
公开市场操作:货币净投放
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
SHIBOR:1周 10年期国债收益率（右）

### Page 14

14 / 15 
3.   本周政策一览 
表9：本周（6 月 29 日-7 月 5 日）政策梳理 
时间 部门 政策/会议 内容 
2026/6/29 国务院 国务院常务会议 
会议指出，要深刻把握人工智能演进趋势，完善支持政策和治理
体系，牢牢掌握发展主动权。要加力推进人工智能创新突破，加
快关键技术攻关和超大规模智算集群建设。要深入实施“人工智能
+”行动。要守牢人工智能安全底线，构建动态适应、分级分类的
安全监管体系。会议研究当前外贸形势和贸易强国建设有关工
作，审议通过《“十五五”碳达峰行动方案》和《国民健康“十五
五”规划》 。 
2026/7/2 
人社部等四部
门 
《关于失业保险支持企业
稳岗扩岗的通知》 
《通知》明确通过“两延续一优化”实施 3 项惠企利民政策举措。
一是延续实施稳岗返还政策。二是延续实施扩岗补助政策。三是
优化技能提升补贴政策。 
《通知》强调，要加强高品质服务供给，强化基金风险防控，持
续做好失业保险金、代缴基本医疗保险（含生育保险）费等保生
活待遇发放工作。同时要求各地加强部门协作，优化经办流程，
采取有效措施抓好政策落地见效。 
2026/7/3 国务院 
《美丽中国建设“十五五”
规划》 
到 2030 年，生态环境质量全面改善，美丽中国建设取得新的重大
进展。 《规划》明确深入打好蓝天碧水净土保卫战、全面实施固体
废物和新污染物治理行动等 7 方面重点任务，提出大气污染防治
提升、水生态环境治理与保护修复、海洋生态环境保护修复、新
污染物协同治理等重大工程。 
数据来源：国务院、人社部等，东吴证券研究所

4.   风险提示 
（1）美国货币政策仍有不确定性；  
（2）政策出台力度低于市场预期； 
（3）房地产改善的持续性待观察。

### Page 15

免责及评级说明部分

东吴证券投资评级标准 
投资评级基于分析师对报告发布日后 6 至 12 个月内行业或公司回报潜力相对基准表现
的预期（A 股市场基准为沪深 300 指数，香港市场基准为恒生指数，美国市场基准为标普 
500 指数， 新三板基准指数为三板成指 （针对协议转让标的） 或三板做市指数 （针对做市转
让标的），北交所基准指数为北证 50 指数），具体如下： 
公司投资评级： 
买入：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准在 15%以上； 
增持：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于 5%与 15%之间； 
中性：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于-5%与 5%之间； 
减持：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于-15%与-5%之间； 
卖出：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准在-15%以下。 
行业投资评级： 
增持： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对强于基准 5%以上； 
中性： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对基准-5%与 5%； 
减持： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对弱于基准 5%以上。 
我们在此提醒您， 不同证券研究机构采用不同的评级术语及评级标准。 我们采用的是相
对评级体系， 表示投资的相对比重建议。 投资者买入或者卖出证券的决定应当充分考虑自身
特定状况， 如具体投资目的、 财务状况以及特定需求等， 并完整理解和使用本报告内容， 不
应视本报告为做出投资决策的唯一因素。 
东吴证券研究所 
苏州工业园区星阳街 5 号 
邮政编码：215021 
传真：（0512）62938527 
公司网址： http://www.dwzq.com.cn

---
## Document 615: 投資策略週報：富貴險中求，「報」風雨前的寧靜

Source PDF: all report pdf/投資策略週報：富貴險中求，「報」風雨前的寧靜.pdf
Report source: Fubon
Date: 2026-07-06
Pages: 21
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
投資策略週報
富貴險中求
“報”風雨前的寧靜
投資研究部
2026/7/6– 2026/7/10

### Page 2

報告大綱
2
投資策略
市場訊息
總體經濟
外匯市場
3
7
債券市場
股票市場
機會市場與總結
18
8
4
11
14

### Page 3

3
行情延續至7月中旬，財報季將引爆美股波動
投
資
策
略
市場展望投資策略
 投等債息收角度出發，聚焦中天期科技債：市場擔憂聯
準會升息預期，殖利率曲線平坦化，中天期標的性價比
浮現。大型科技債短期違約率低，隨著利差擴大、價格
下跌，投資價值浮現。(詳見Page 12、13)
 分散配置防禦性類股：6月股市震盪期間，資金明顯由
科技股轉向消費、健護，甚至年至今漲幅較少的低基期
金融、軟體股。相關類股盈餘前景也為股價提供支撐，
若7月股市波動，防禦類股有望重新成為資金避風港。
(詳見Page 17)
 拉回買進半導體相關類股 ：高槓桿集中風險依舊是短期
台、韓股市動盪隱憂 ，留意財報季引發的利多出盡賣壓 。
惟AI需求依舊看不見盡頭 ，月、季線之間為修正佈局區
間點位 。預期股市在 7月中旬前維持震盪走高 ，短線投
資上，可善用半導體體 ETF採取”買黑不買紅 ”策略交
易。(詳見Page 15)
 匯市展望：6月非農新增儘 5.7萬人，緩解聯準會升息預
期，引導原先強勢的美元指數向下修正 ，本週美元指數

區間100.1~101.6。惟美國經濟仍相對強勢 ，加上後續
若股市修正 ，將牽動美元避險需求 ，預期美元將維持高
檔盤整。(詳見Page 9)
 債市展望：美債殖利率維持高檔震盪 ，並未顯著反應非
農意外走低 ，和Warsh淡化升息風險 ，市場對通膨、升
息擔憂依舊保持謹慎 。然而數據面顯示升息機率正在降
溫，也將壓抑殖利率上行空間 。本週美債十年殖利率區
間4.35%~4.55%。
 股市展望 : 在AI敘事為出現破綻之前，”逢低買入”買
盤湧入半導體類股 ，支撐費半維持歷史新高附近 ，預期
行情在7月中旬財報季前 ，將震盪走高 ，但仍需留意高
槓桿環境下 ，股市高波動的投資風險 。本週S&P500區
間7,350~7,600。

### Page 4

日韓政府領頭AI投資，為AI發展背書
4
市
場
訊
息
頭條新聞
1. 6/24日本政府召開經濟財政諮詢會議與日本成長戰略會
議的聯合會議 ，宣布17個戰略領域投資計畫 ，預估至
2040年投資規模超過370兆日圓。(詳見Page 5)
2. 韓國政府協同三星 *、SK海力士宣布 AI投資三大躍進計
畫，主要聚焦半導體 、物理AI、AI資料中心的發展 ，總
投資規模超過 1,800兆韓元 ，其中三星 、海力士 合計投
資800 兆 韓 元， 興建 4 座 記 憶 體 廠， 目 標 是 未 來5 年
DRAM產能翻倍。(詳見Page 6)
3. 美伊關係觸礁 ，儘管川普宣稱雙方將於卡達首都 Doha
舉行新一輪會談 ，然而伊朗與卡達卻相繼澄清雙方暫時
無會談計畫。荷姆茲海峽收費問題依舊未解 ，同時以色
列持續維持強硬態度都為美伊後續進展蒙上一層陰影。
產業訊息
1. 彭博消息指出Meta*正在規劃將龐大的AI算利模型與匴力
對外商業化 ，正式跨足企業雲端市場 。可能會有兩種商
業模式推出 ，一為項企業提供 AI模型託管服務 ，由Meta

負責運行資料中心與 AI晶片，向開發者收取模型使用費 。
第二種 為直接出租原始 GPU 算力，讓企業租用未充分利
用的AI基礎設施。
2. 韓國科技媒體指出，三星*晶圓代工業務不會放棄1.4奈米
製程(SF1.4)，而是將1.4奈米製程由原先2027年量產目標
延後至2029年(台積電預計 2028年量產)，將資源優先集
中於2奈米製程良率提升 。三星DS部門總裁此前曾表示 ，
2奈米製程良率改善已顯著提升盈利能力。
3. 中國最大NOR Flash供應商兆易創新*發出公告，示警其
所屬的存儲晶片產品價格已處於歷史高位 ，主要產品價
格恐出現相當幅度回落 ，對公司毛利率與整體獲利能力
不利，並使得經營績效存在下降風險。
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 5

日本宣佈14年AI投資計畫，但缺乏具體細節
5
日本政府帶頭投資，創造成長潛力 圖表解讀
➢ 日本高市早苗政府宣布一項至 2040年共計370兆日圓
的長期經濟投資計畫 ，用與支持包含 AI、半導體 、國
防、太空開發等 17項重點項目 ，旨在政府領頭同步推
升民間投資 ，拉升長期日本潛在 GDP成長。摩根大通
認為此計畫將推升東證指數本益比至20X之上。
➢ 而另一項日本 GDP擴張之所以重要的關鍵 ，在於GDP
要長期維持上漲動能 ，才能抵銷持續惡化的財政壓力 。
根據日本政府預估，在缺乏370兆日圓大規模投資刺激
下，2031年之後，日本債務/GDP比重將重新轉趨上升。
➢ 除了日本大力支持 AI投資之外 ，南韓政府也宣布歷來
規模最大的半導 體與 AI投資計畫 ，總投資金額超 過
1,800兆韓元，涵蓋晶片製造 、AI資料中心、先進封裝
及研發等多個領域 。日韓政府領銜 AI盛世，為AI投資
背書，AI離真正的泡沫恐怕還很遠。
資料來源：JPM, 2026/6/29
市
場
訊
息

透過擴張潛力，才能讓債務/GDP比重下滑
日本GDP潛在增長率情境(%)
技術進步與效率提升
勞動人口貢獻 潛在GDP成長率
資本貢獻
日本債務/GDP比重(%)

### Page 6

韓國打造AI艦隊，力拼全球第一製造地位
6
韓國宣布大規模投資計畫 圖表解讀
➢ 韓國政府協同三星 *、SK海力士*宣布AI投資三大躍進
計畫，主要聚焦半導體 、物理AI、AI資料中心的發展 ，
總投資規模超過1,800兆韓元，其中三星、海力士合計
投資800 兆韓元 ，興建4座記憶體廠 ，目標是未來 5年
DRAM產能翻倍。
➢ 儘管計畫大規模投資記憶體產能擴張 ，然而高盛和美
銀認為短期對供不應求的情境仍難以起到即時性的緩
解作用。光是電力、水源等基礎建設預計就需耗時 5年
時間，再加上建廠到實際量產也需要額外 3~4年，因
此預計此計畫對實際記憶體供給影響約在 8~10年之後。
➢ 美銀認為受限於舊廠關閉和次世代製程週期拉長 ，未
來5年DRAM實際產能CAGR成長率可能僅 10%甚至更
低，低於5年翻倍CAGR 15%的增速，也追趕不上每年
需求的擴張 ，因此不用擔心大規模擴產可能打破目前
記憶體供需失衡的情形。
資料來源：GS, 2026/6/30
市
場
訊
息
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 7

日期 國家 事件 前期 預期
7/9 美國 FOMC會議紀錄 -- --
7/9 美國 Williams談話(具票權) -- --
7/10 美國 Logan談話(具票權) -- --
Williams或再次淡化通膨風險
7
重點提醒
➢ 7/9 Fed將揭露由Warsh首次主持的FOMC會議紀錄，6
月會議上官員看法明顯轉趨鷹派 ，但Warsh會後藉由其
對於點陣圖隨時可能轉變的論調 ，淡化升息風險 ，關注
會議中官員們對於經濟數據的詳細看法 。同時，7/9紐
約聯儲主席Williams將發表最新談話 ，相對於其餘官員
的鷹派，Williams則是認為目前利率已能對通膨產生壓
制效果，其談話或能再次緩和市場對於通膨的擔憂。
➢ 5月經濟數據證明美國的內需動能比想像中更具韌性 ，
儘管物價上升 ，卻未能壓抑美國的消費需求 。7/6公佈
的6月ISM服務業指數將再次驗證美國經濟局勢，尤其在
新訂單(5月57.3)、僱傭(5月47.9)和原物料價格(5月71.3)
的細項變化，將成為關注焦點。

➢ 在油價的推升下 ，歐元區PP年增率已經連續 2個月上升 ，
隨著5月油價依舊維持在 100美元之上的高檔 ，預期PPI
仍將維持高位，6~7月之後才有望見到明顯緩和趨勢。
央行利率政策及談話
重要經濟數據
日期 國家 數據 前期 預期
7/6 美國 6月ISM服務業指數 54.5 54.3
7/6 美國 6月標普美國綜合PMI 52.2 --
7/6 歐元區 5月PPI年增率 4.9% --
7/6 歐元區 5月零售銷售年增率 1.0% --
7/7 台灣 6月CPI年增率 2.2% --
7/9 日本 6月貨幣存量M2年增率 2.5% --
7/10 日本 6月PPI年增率 6.3% --
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/6/29
總
體
經
濟

### Page 8

美元橫盤，為歐系貨幣提供喘息空間
8
匯市表現說明
➢ 英鎊：首相候選人 Burnham 力推經濟復興和遵守現行英
國財政規則，幫助英鎊穩住5月以來的跌勢 。然而，英鎊
/ 美 元 要 大 幅 上 迅 速 收 復 失 土 機 率 也 不 高， 短 期 維 持
1.32~1.34區間震盪。
➢ 澳幣： 繼5月升息一碼後 ，6月澳洲央行維持利率不變 ，
市場對於年內升息預期明顯降低 ，澳幣/美元恐維持弱勢
整理一段時間。
➢ 黃金: 金價短暫跌破 4,000美元後 ，迅速站回 ，Warsh表
示近期通膨風險降溫 ，緩解黃金因升息壓力產生的拋售
賣壓，高盛、富達等大型機構依舊看好黃金作為中長期
資產配置。
%
外
匯
市
場
外匯市場回顧
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/7/6

### Page 9

市場過度反應升息預期，美元維持高檔盤整
9
5月或為美國通膨年內高峰 圖表解讀
➢ Truflation Index藉由蒐集 150萬筆物價數據 ，每天即
時揭露美國通膨狀況 ，相較美國官方公佈的 CPI數據，
更具領先性 。Truflation Index在5月中旬之後便一路
向下走低，暗示美國通膨於今年5月或許就已經達到年
內高點。
➢ 當前市場情緒仍謹慎看待聯準會可能的鷹派態度 ，然
而市場或過度反應聯準會升息預期 ，若後續通膨走低 ，
將限制美債殖利率向上空間 ，緩解美元持續向上的升
值趨勢 。但也須留意若後續股市出現回檔修正 ，避險
情緒將為美元指數提供支撐 ，因此美元指數高檔盤整
機率較高。
➢ 與此同時 ，歐元區的經濟動能也正在改善 ，經濟信心
指數連續兩個月從底部回升。近期ECB總裁拉加德也表
示，歐元區經濟韌性正在增強 ，為升息創造空間 ，歐
元/美元自5月以來的弱勢有望彈升。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/6/30
外
匯
市
場
短期利差引導美元維持強勢

Truflation Index
US CPI
%
美元指數
美德十年殖利率利差

### Page 10

干預手段也檔不住日圓貶值預期
10
干預無法解決長期日圓貶值壓力 圖表解讀
➢ 儘管6月日本央行將利率調升至 1%，但由於後續升息
預期薄弱 ，依然無法扭轉持續貶值的日圓走勢 。日本
政府只剩下干預一條路 ，然而2022、2024年兩次經驗
都顯示干預或扭轉短期看法 ，但無法長期改變市場對
於長期日圓貶值的預期壓力。
➢ 日圓弱勢的根本問題仍源自於市場看不到高市政府對
於財政困境的解決方案 。尤其在債務壓力未解下 ，6月
下旬政府又推出370兆日圓的長期投資計畫，缺乏還款
細節的”空頭支票”，終究不被市場買單。
➢ 因此，美日十年殖利率利差雖然持續向下收斂 ，但日
債殖利率一部分上升原因源自於市場對日本政府財政
不信任的拋售導致 ，因此對日圓的貶值緩衝未能起到
明確作用 。儘管日本或再次採取干預 ，但留意市場可
能賭注後續政府缺乏長期支撐手段 ，日圓甚至可能在
小幅升值後再次貶值突破新高。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/6/30
外
匯
市
場
利差收窄依舊無法挽救”失信”的日圓

十億日圓
日圓干預規模
美元/日圓
美元/日圓
美日十年殖利率利差

### Page 11

官員淡化升息風險，壓抑殖利率上升空間
11
債市表現說明
➢ 美國公債/投等債：當前市場情緒仍謹慎看待聯準會可能
的鷹派態度 ，美國十年殖利率上行也拖累公債 、投等債
表現。然而，Warsh近期談話提及通膨有緩和跡象，淡化
升息風險，預期將對殖利率上行空間產生壓抑效果。
➢ 美國非投資等級債： 受惠股市反彈 ，非投等債上週表現
較佳。美國非投等債利差再次走出分化，CCC及以下評等
利差持續維持在5月以來高檔，而BB評等則持續維持在近
年低位。
➢ 新興市場當地債： 上週美元指數大致持平 ，加上中國殖
利率小幅下行 ，支撐新當債表現 。新興美元債則同步受
到美債殖利率上型的影響，表現相對較差。
債
券
市
場
債券市場回顧
%
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/7/6

### Page 12

科技債利差走擴，但體質依舊健全
12
圖表解讀
➢ 6月下旬科技投等債信用利差再次出現小幅上升 ，也進
而推動整體投等債利差上揚 ，市場再次擔心 AI發債和
過度舉債對價格衝擊。Space X債券起初發行認購倍數
接近4倍，但在二級市場卻持續遭到拋售 ，儘管發行評
等為BBB投等債 ，但信用利差卻已升至與 BB信評的非
投等債相差無幾。
➢ 儘管市場對於科技業資本支出的延續感到質疑 ，但整
體科技債體質依舊穩健 。截至2Q26，整體科技債總債
務/EBITDA (Gross Leverage)僅1.7X，超大型雲端服
務供應商僅1.8X，紛紛低於非金融投等債的2.3X。
➢ 超大型雲端服務供應商 2026 全年發行規模約落在
2,100億美元上下 ，而市場預估 2027年其EBITDA增長
同樣約為2100億美元，換句話說 ，未來發債規模雖可
能逐年增加 ，但若EBITDA能同步加快 ，財務體質未必
會趨於惡化。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/6/29(上圖)、MS, 2026/6(下圖)

債
券
市
場
科技債信用利差再次小幅上揚
大型雲端服務供應商財務體質無虞
甲骨文CDS大幅飆升

### Page 13

利率曲線平坦化，中天期CP值最高
13
圖表解讀
➢ 6~7月債券市場面臨聯準會轉趨鷹派的升息預期壓力 ，
美國公債市場也出現殖利率曲線平坦化 ，短天期反應
升息預期上升的幅度高於長天期 ，意味著買短天期債
券的收益率正向長天期靠攏 ，但相對不用承擔長期的
利率波動風險。
➢ 儘管科技業由於支出和舉債壓力持續攀升 ，導致違約
風險增加 ，然而以 Alphabet*為例 ，其5Y CDS也僅
53bp左右，與美國投等債相當 ，實際發生違約的機率
其實並不高。
➢ 因此，投等債標的選擇上可以天期 5年左右的中天期為
主，性價比最高 ，同時選擇大型的科技公司 ，不僅有
利差收斂空間，5年內實際出現違約的風險也不高。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/6/30
債
券
市
場
Google CDS雖攀升但違約率仍極低
殖利率曲線平坦化應該鎖定中天期標的
5Y CDS(bp)
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 14

半導體迎來震盪，資金轉向防禦類股
14
股市表現說明
➢ 標普500指數：近期資金動能明顯在半導體類股出現震盪
時，轉向其餘像是金融 、健護等防禦性類股 ，導致費半
走勢遜色S&P 500，留意此現象可能延續至7~8月。
➢ 南韓Kospi指數： 儘管美光 *釋出記憶體前景樂觀訊號 ，
然而三星*、海力士*擴產疑慮、傳言政府要求建立利潤共
享機制、費半回檔衝擊，表現明顯落後其餘市場。
➢ 恆生指數：受到騰訊*、阿里巴巴*等權值科技股的拖累，
恆生指數近月跌幅超過雙位數 。近期騰訊也與中國記憶
體大廠 長鑫存儲 簽下DRAM長約 ，中國記憶體可能也面
臨缺貨題材。
股
票
市
場
股票市場回顧
%
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/7/6
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 15

槓桿去化風險猶存但半導體趨勢未見轉折
15
融資餘額偏高，短期台股仍有去槓桿風險 圖表解讀
➢ 截至6/26，台股上市融資餘額高達5,909億新台幣，持
續維持歷史高位 ，同時融資餘額占加權指數市值 (扣除
台積電)比重高達0.7%，也同步位於近十年高峰 。過去
經驗顯示 ，當此比重突破正一倍標準差 0.68%之上時 ，
股市短期便有回檔去槓桿風險。
➢ 但就產業中長期角度而言 ，一方面美光3Q26FY財報已
證明 AI需求看不 到盡頭 ，另一方 面代表 GPU需求的
H100租賃價格至 6月底也持續維持高檔 ，證明雲端服
務商在晶片供不應求的情況下 ，對舊世代的 AI晶片仍
高度依賴。
➢ 因此短期台股 、韓股雖然有槓桿去化的波動風險 ，審
慎看待 ，但逢回加碼半導體趨勢的操作策略依舊沒有
轉變(月、季線區間為中期承接的時機)。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/6/29
GPU租賃價格依舊維持高檔
股
票
市
場

### Page 16

圖表解讀
➢ 由於美國頂尖AI模型Token成本持續上升，許多終端使
用企業短短數月時間便已耗盡全年 AI預算，也迫使像
是Coinbase、Amazon等CSP採取多模型並進 ，將中
國AI模型作為日常任務執行的優先則 。OpenRouter數
據顯示，中國AI模型的市占率已逼近50%。
➢ 近期中國初創AI公司智譜發佈的GLM 5.2模型，宣稱已
達到與Anthropic Mythos模型相同的性能，但成本只
需要20~25%，美國CSP的價格競爭壓力恐為短期不利
因素。
➢ 面對競爭壓力 ，美國CSP大廠除了加快 ASIC自研晶片
降低成本之外 ，另一方面對於資料傳輸的需求也變得
更加迫切 ，半導體產業仍是主要受惠方 。因此，儘管
見到股價高檔震盪，但市場對於台股、費半的EPS預期
仍持續上調，證明AI產業上未出現轉折。
美國AI模型面臨競爭壓力，半導體持續受惠
16
中國AI模型低價成本搶奪市佔
資料來源：GS, 2026/6/9(上圖)、Bloomberg, 2026/6/29(下圖)

股
票
市
場
台股、費半盈餘仍持續獲市場上修
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 17

資金輪動，股市氛圍並未全面恐慌
17
資金輪動，信心未全面崩潰 圖表解讀
➢ 隨著股市自4月以來一路上漲，高股價也開始伴隨高波
動的產生 。然而 ，以目前盤面觀察 ，資金僅僅是從
MAG 7、半導體轉向先前漲幅相對落後的必需消費 、
健護、公用事業等防禦性類股。
➢ 此情形凸顯出目前股市並未出現全面性恐慌 ，過去當
大盤在下跌 ，但防禦性股票在上漲時 ，整體大盤高低
點回落幅度往往小於10%。
➢ 因此，短期雖然因為占比較高的科技權值股在修正 ，
但只要未見到防禦性股票也在同步下跌 ，便不需要過
度擔心。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/629
類股全面下跌，S&P500才可能跌幅超過10%
股
票
市
場
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
過去5年累計報酬率(%)
下跌起始日 波段低點 天數 波段跌幅
2015/5/20 2015/8/24 96 -12.5%
2015/11/3 2016/2/11 100 -14.5%
2018/1/26 2018/2/9 14 -11.8%

2018/9/21 2018/12/26 96 -20.2%
2020/2/19 2020/3/23 33 -35.4%
2022/1/4 2022/10/13 282 -27.5%
2023/7/27 2023/10/27 92 -10.9%
2024/3/28 2024/4/19 22 -5.9%
2024/7/16 2024/8/5 20 -9.7%
2025/2/19 2025/4/7 47 -21.3%
2025/10/29 2025/11/21 23 -5.8%
2026/1/28 2026/3/30 61 -9.8%
2026/6/2 2026/6/9 7 -5.0%

### Page 18

7月機會市場亮點
18
機
會
市
場
資產別 市場 亮點
股票
市場
美國 市場高度聚焦Q2財報季，在Q1已大幅上調今年EPS預估值後，市場對盈餘展望將更嚴格檢視，企
業要再次給出”驚喜”的機率不高，留意中下旬可能出現的震盪。
日本 7月中下旬將迎財報旺季，歷史經驗顯示獲利預估值多隨財報公布同步上修。日股今明兩年EPS增
長率預估維持雙位數成長，短線雖需留意高檔風險，惟長線政府推動AI投資計畫有望禿升日股估值。
新亞 新興市場經濟復甦漸受資金青睞，且資金仍有回補空間。以台韓為主的新亞股市前景看好，獲利成
長動能強勁支撐股市維持多頭格局。短線籌碼面沉澱後長期仍看好新亞股市。
科技/通訊 科技依然是美股盈利增長核心引擎，持續引領企業獲利成長，AI基礎設施、網通與半導體供應鏈是
主要貢獻來源。科技股估值高，易有較大震盪，嚴控部位，關注實質營收轉換率，留意類股高波動。
原物料 AI資料中心電力需求、電網升級與新能源轉型帶動，看好基本金屬需求。黃金短暫回檔，財政風險、
地緣政治等結構性利多因素仍在，摩根大通預期下半年黃金將可恢復上漲動能。

債券
市場 投等債 債券報酬來源以息收為主，隨著美債殖利率曲線平坦化，聚焦中天期標的，性價比最高。
匯率
市場 美元 企業投資支撐製造業景氣，川普帳戶將於國慶日啟動，風險市場審慎樂觀，勞動市場尚穩、通膨風
險猶存，美國實質利率保持正值且相對較高水位，資金持續停泊美元資產，為美元匯價提供底氣。
看好減碼 中立

### Page 19

19
資產別 市場 評論
股票
市場
歐洲 歐洲央行經濟公報認為滯脹風險顯性化。經濟活動預計將倚賴國防、AI和電氣化領域的投資支持。
中國 中國內需、房地產延續兜底階段，壓抑中國上證指數表現持續落後全球主要國家股市。惟以半導
體類股為主科創50指數，或隨著中國政府全力發展本土AI產業而有較佳表現。
金融 美國金融機構資本與獲利指標改善，帳上未實現損失收斂。此外，大型銀行受益於併購與IPO熱
潮，加上聯準會今年或轉升息，利差擴大亦有利大型銀行利息收入增長。
健護
醫療
年至今健護表現弱，且醫療設備股下調銷售前景壓抑類股走勢，僅禮來因減肥藥表現亮眼，維持
醫療保健類股中性評級。
能源 荷姆茲海峽開通後，原油供給預期將大幅湧入全球市場，對能源股將帶來壓力。
公用事業 數據中心帶來的龐大電力需求，已從傳統的防禦型「收息股」轉型為兼具穩健配息與成長潛力的
標的。這類公司具備強大護城河，但高利率環境估值壓力較大。偏防守與收益型配置。
工業 SpaceX*上市滿一週後股價大幅震盪，隨閉鎖期逐步解除，供給壓力或抑制股價，連帶使航太類

股承壓。不過，美國在美伊戰大量消耗武器庫存，中長期軍工類股可望受惠政府訂單增加利多。
房地產 美國利率受聯準會轉趨鷹派因素，預期維持偏高檔、偏強勢整理，不利REITs表現，此外，擔心人
工智能工具更廣泛的使用衝擊商業地產需求，市場局部拋售進一步蔓延。
消費 美國物價壓力明顯反彈，升息預期使大盤承壓，必需消費類股表現相對撐盤，OBBBA帶來退稅，
未來幾個月可能會釋放被壓抑的需求，但高油價對於消費排擠效應仍不容忽視。
債券
市場
美國公債 非農就業等經濟數據意外強勁、通膨具備黏性導致市場下修降息預期，長天期美債仍可能震盪。
非投等債 市場波動加劇，連帶使非投等債震盪，惟非投等債仍具高殖利率優勢，僅適合長期持有。
新興市場 部分新興市場央行已無力再貨幣寬鬆，加上匯率波動與政治風險，新當債表現或受壓抑。
市
場
評
論
看好減碼 中立
其它市場評論

### Page 20

富貴險中求，“報”風雨前的寧靜
20
總
結
貨幣 負向 中立 正向
美元 ●
歐元 ●
日圓 ●
人民幣 ●
澳幣 ●
黃金 ●
原油 ●
全球外匯&商品短期展望 全球債市短期展望 全球股市短期展望 標普產業短期展望
債種 負向 中立 正向
全球債 ●
美國
公債 ●
投資
等級債 ●
非投資
等級債 ●
新興
市場債 ●
國家 負向 中立 正向
美國 ●
新亞 ●
日本 ●
新歐 ●
歐洲 ●
中國 ●
產業 負向 中立 正向
科技 ●
消費 ●
工業 ●
金融 ●
健護 ●
公用事業 ●
房地產 ●
原物料 ●
• 強勁就業數據支撐短期美元維持強勢，然而通膨或已
見頂，後續升息預期滑落，將引領美元指數升勢放緩。
• Williams談話有望淡化升息預期，殖利率高檔盤整。
• 財報季前股市有望震盪走高，短期適合利用ETF操作。
留意財報揭露後，股市波動放大的風險。
• Warsh將於7/14於國會發表上任後首次證詞，7/15則
出席銀行委員會聽證會。或釋出更多聯準會改革訊號。
• 7月財報季揭露，中旬關注金融業景氣展望是否轉趨樂

觀，下旬關注CSP大廠資本支出前景和營利動能能否持
續強化市場信心。
後市觀察重點Key Notes

### Page 21

信賴該等資料做出投資決策為由，向本行主張任何權利。未經本行授權，禁止以任何形式引
用、抄襲、重製或轉寄本研究報告。
警語

---
## Document 730: 腾讯混元3.0正式上线，聚焦提升任务执行力

Source PDF: all report pdf/腾讯混元3.0正式上线，聚焦提升任务执行力.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-07-06
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

距离 Hy3 preview 发布已经过去 74 天。
摘要：
在加⼊腾讯近半年后，腾讯⾸席 AI 科学家姚顺⾬的⾸份成绩单 ——Hy3 正式版（混元 3.0 正式版）
终于发布了。
7 ⽉ 6 ⽇，华尔街⻅闻发现，腾讯旗下 AI 助⼿元宝已上线了 Hy3 正式版。这距离腾讯发布 Hy3
preview （混元 3.0 预览版）已经过去 74 天。
Hy3 是⼀个快慢思考融合的  MoE 语⾔模型，总参数  295B ，激活参数  21B ，最⼤⽀持  256K 上
下⽂⻓度。从参数来看， Hy3 跟之前发布的 Hy3 preview 没有变化。
也就是说，腾讯坚持 Hy3 不追求⼤规模参数，定位 “ 兼具性能和性价⽐ ” ，⽬标是成为⼤部分业务
场景实践落地的最优选择之⼀。
在腾讯⽅⾯看来， 300B 是能⼒与效率的最优平衡带。复杂推理、⻓上下⽂理解、指令遵循等能
⼒在这个量级已经充分释放，继续扩⼤参数规模的边际收益显著递减 —— 投⼊翻倍，能⼒提升
往往只在个位数百分点。
据悉，在 Hy3 preview 的基础上， Hy3 正式版聚焦 Coding Agent 任务执⾏和⽣产⼒场景、复杂推

理和数理能⼒进⾏了优化，修复了 Hy3 preview 存在的⼀些已知问题。
与此同时， Hy3 定价进⼀步降低，⽬前价格为输⼊ 1 元 / 百万 tokens ，输出 4 元 / 百万 tokens ，输⼊
命中缓存价格 0.25 元 / 百万 tokens 。
华尔街⻅闻从腾讯⽅⾯了解到，⽬前 Hy3 已在腾讯旗下 WorkBuddy/CodeBuddy 、元宝、
Marvis 、 ima 等多个业务接⼊， API 已在腾讯云 TokenHub 上线，多个海外 API 平台也将陆续接
⼊。
Hy3 是腾讯在  AI 下半场的⼀次节奏校准。
2025 年下半年来，腾讯⽐较密集地进⾏了混元⼤模型团队的组织升级和⼯作流重构，同时在
2026 年 2 ⽉也重新建⽴了包括预训练和强化学习在内的⼤模型研发基础设施，以及进⼀步提升数
据质量。
姚顺⾬曾表⽰， Hy3 preview 是混元⼤模型重建的第⼀步。
据悉，在混元⼤模型重建的过程中，腾讯还建⽴了模型追求实⽤性的三个原则：⼀是强调能⼒
体系化，不推崇 “ 偏科 ” ；⼆是评测真实性，主动跳出易被 “ 刷榜 ” 的公开榜单；三是追求性价⽐追

求。
因此，腾讯选择先发布 Hy3 preview ，以获得来⾃开源社区和⽤⼾的真实反馈，帮助提升  Hy3 正
式版的实⽤性。
腾讯提供数据显⽰，⾃发布以来， WorkBuddy 上⾃主选择  Hy3 preview 的⽤⼾数增⻓了 6 倍。
Hy3 在 WorkBuddy 办公场景的内部测评中，任务成功率从  72% 升⾄  90% ，平均耗时缩短 34% 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
41 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
在元宝的使⽤中，针对⻓⽂和 AI 搜索场景存在的幻觉现象， Hy3 通过细粒度的数据清洗与训练
约束，让模型学会在复杂证据下可靠输出。
据悉，在基于元宝真实⽇志的评测中， Hy3 常识错误率较  preview 版本下降了⼀半，幻觉率下
降了超过⼀半。
值得⼀提的是，基于 Hy3 ⼤幅提升的  Agent 能⼒，元宝也同步上线了 Agent 功能。
华尔街⻅闻在体验中发现，在给元宝的任务 prompt 中明确提出要求⽣成对应⽂件，如 PPT 、
Word 、 Excel 、 PDF 、 HTML 等，即可触发元宝的 Agent 能⼒，同时输出最终⼀份完整的⽂件，
⽽不是以前的纯对话。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 756: 資金循環統計（2026年1-3月期） ～イラン影響は価格↑・数量↓で相殺、「貯蓄から投資へ」も着々と～

Source PDF: all report pdf/資金循環統計（2026年1-3月期）  ～イラン影響は価格↑・数量↓で相殺、「貯蓄から投資へ」も着々と～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-06-25
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Economic Trends

2026 年 6 月 25 日

1/4 
資金循環統計（2026 年 1-3 月期） 
～イラン影響は価格↑・数量↓で相殺、「貯蓄から投資へ」も着々と～ 
経済調査部 主席エコノミスト 星野 卓也 
（℡：050-5474-7497）

資金過不足：海外部門へのイラン影響は輸入数量減や輸出増で相殺  
  日本銀行から資金循環統計速報 （2026 年 1-3 月期） が示された。 季節調整値で経済主体別の資金
過不足をみると、家計は資金不足に転じた（10-12 月期：＋4.9 兆円→2026 年 1-3 月期：▲1.3 兆
円） 。一方、民間非金融法人企業は資金余剰が拡大（同＋3.6 兆円→＋10.5 兆円） 。 一般政府は資
金不足がやや縮小（同▲2.3 兆円→▲1.6 兆円） 、海外の資金不足は拡大（同▲8.3 兆円→▲9.6 兆
円）した。4 四半期移動平均値で均してみると、家計の資金余剰はやや縮小、企業の資金余剰は拡
大、政府・海外部門は資金不足幅がやや拡大している。 
季節調整値での家計と企業の急変が目立つ。 イラン情勢の悪化による取引の停滞やリスク回避姿
勢の強まり等で企業の現預金が滞留した可能性が考えられる。 ただ、資金過不足の季節調整値は過
去をみても大きく振れることがあり、季節調整の綾の側面もありそうだ。4 四半期移動平均でみれ
ば、各主体の資金過不足の大きな構図は変わっていない。 
また、 既に貿易統計や国際収支統計で確認されているが、 イラン情勢が海外部門の資金過不足に

海外
   金     
    資金過不足

海外
   金     
    資金過不足

### Page 2

2/4 
与えた影響も現状軽微である。 原油をはじめとしたコモディティ価格の上昇が海外部門の資金不足
縮小と家計・企業の資金余剰縮小につながる展開を考えていたが、 中東からの輸入は価格上昇の一
方、供給制約で輸入数量が減ったことで幾分相殺されたほか、AI 関連輸出の好調も相まって貿易収
支への影響は幾分抑えられている。

：金 資産は過去最高近傍、現預金比率は 段と低下 
家計の資産側フロー （4 四半期移動平均） をみると、1-3 月期は＋5.8 兆円のプラスとなった。10-
12 月期は＋6.6 兆円であり、 プラス幅は若干の縮小。 内訳をみると、 現預金が＋1.7 兆円、 株式等・
投資信託受益証券が＋1.5 兆円（うち投資信託は＋3.0 兆円） 。投資信託への流入は引き続き多い。
債務証券は＋1.3 兆円、保険・年金・定型保証も＋1.3 兆円となっており、現金から投資信託、債
券、保険・年金などへ資産が分散する動きが続いている。 
3 月末の家計の金融資産残高は2,385.7 兆円と、前期の2,394.1 兆円から小幅に減少した。前期
につけた過去最高は下回ったものの、なお極めて高い水準にある。前年同期との差をみると、現預
金は＋6.7 兆円、債務証券が＋4.6 兆円、株式・投資信託が＋122.4 兆円、保険・年金・定型保証が
＋17.0 兆円だった。 家計金融資産の増加の主軸は引き続き株式・投資信託であり、 市場環境による
評価益の寄与が大きい。次回の同統計では、6 月末にかけて進んだ株高を反映する形で、再び過去
最高額を更新するだろう。 
家計金融資産に占める現預金比率は 47.2％と前期の 47.6％から低下した。また、政府は家計金
融資産に占める「株式・投資信託・債券」の割合を2040 年度までに 4 割へ引き上げる目標を掲げ
る方針と報じられている。 同比率は12 月末24.6％→3 月末25.2％に上昇1。“貯蓄から投資へ”の
流れは着実に進んでいる。

1 今回基礎資料の反映等で統計が遡及改定されている。遡及改定前の 25 年末の「株式・投信・債券」の比率は 23.0％
だったが、上方改定された。 
資産

の 
     資

金                 ン
現金 預金

外   資
 出
   年金     
     金
預 金
  部門の

### Page 3

3/4 
   金     ： 外直接 資に加え、現預金 借入も拡大 
民間非金融法人企業の資産側フローを均してみると（4 四半期移動平均値） 、直近値は＋17.0 兆
円となった。前期の＋12.5 兆円から拡大している。内訳をみると対外直接投資が＋5.8 兆円、現預
金が＋4.7 兆円。企業の資金余剰が対外直接投資に向かう構図は続いているが、直近では現預金の
積み増しも目立つ。先に指摘したように、 ここにはイラン情勢悪化に伴う企業取引の停滞やリスク
回避姿勢の強まりが影響した可能性が考えられそうだ。負債側では貸出が＋12.3 兆円と、 前期 （＋
8.9 兆円）から拡大した。 
企業の金融資産残高は3 月末時点で1,829.3 兆円となり、 過去最高を更新した。 前年同期と比較
すると、株式等・投資信託が＋163.9 兆円、対外直接投資が＋35.6 兆円の増加。堅調な対外直投フ
ローに加え、市場環境が企業の金融資産残高を押し上げている。

：純  残高GDP 比は60％台前 へ低下 
  一般政府債務の GDP 比（2026 年 3 月末）は、総債務が 203.6％（前期末：208.4％）と低下、純
債務も 62.2％（前期末：67.1％） へ低下。財政赤字の縮小と名目GDP の増加の双方を通じて、スト
ック対 GDP 比の指標は両指標ともに低下傾向が続く。 資金循環統計のストック指標は、 政府の中長
期試算で示される公債等残高とは債務範囲や時価・簿価ベースの違いがある。 資金循環ベースでは
金利上昇に伴う債務側の時価低下も債務残高GDP 比の低下につながっている。インフレ→名目 GDP
の増加で財政指標が改善しているという点は共通だ。 
部門別の政府資金過不足をみると、社会保障基金は1-3 月期に＋1.1 兆円と、前期の＋0.3 兆円
からプラス幅が拡大した。4 四半期移動平均でも＋1.5 兆円と高水準を維持している。賃金上昇に
伴う社会保険料収入の増加や、 年金のマクロ経済スライドが、 社保基金の黒字を支えているとみら
れる。一方、一般政府全体の 4 四半期移動平均の資金不足は▲2.9 兆円と、前期（▲2.4 兆円）か
らやや拡大している。 
資産

の 
 の  外    
     資

金                 ン
現金 預金

外   資
 外直接 資
 出
   年金     
     金
預 金
   金     部門の

### Page 4

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、 資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第 ライ 資産運 
経済研究所が ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、 の正確性、完全性に する責任は いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第  命  ないしは の関連会社の 資方針と常に 合的であるとは限
りません。 
4/4

日銀：国  有比率の低下が続く 
中央銀行（日銀）の金融資産は3 月末時点で696.1 兆円（12 月末：710.9 兆円）と減少した。資
産側のフローは▲14.1 兆円で、国債・財投債は▲12.0 兆円と圧縮が続いている。中央銀行の国債
保有比率（国庫短期証券＋国債・財投債）は、12 月末 43.10％→3 月末 42.21％と 9 四半期連続で
低下した。 日銀の買い入れ減額が進む下で、 同比率は緩やかに低下している。 「国債・財投債」 に絞
ったベースでも、12 月末49.02％→3 月末47.88％と、5 割を下回る水準で低下が続いている。 
なお、骨太方針で「個人向け国債」の魅力向上が掲げられる見通しと報じられている。国債の安
定消化、 保有層の多様化を企図した政策でもある。3 月末時点での国債に占める家計の比率は1.74％
と低位だが、 前年3 月末の1.33％からはシェアを高めている。家計の国債保有比率はなお低いもの
の、金利上昇を背景に債券投資が増え、家計の国債保有比率はじわりと上昇している。今後の政策
の影響が注目される。

純  
          比

社会  基金
 方

部門  資金過不足

の 
 の  外    
     資      
現金 預金

外   資
 出
     金
預 金
  銀  資産

的年金

海外
  銀 
年金基金

預金  
 関
    国  有比率

---
## Document 775: 韓国･６月輸出入額はともに過去最高を更新（Asia Weekly） ～半導体がけん引役となるも､幅広い分野で輸出拡大を促す動き～

Source PDF: all report pdf/韓国･６月輸出入額はともに過去最高を更新（Asia Weekly） ～半導体がけん引役となるも､幅広い分野で輸出拡大を促す動き～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-07-02
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Asia Indicators

2026 年 7 月 2 日

1/4 
韓国･６月輸出入額はともに過去最高を更新（Asia Weekly） 
～半導体がけん引役となるも､幅広い分野で輸出拡大を促す動き～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（経済指標の振り返り） 
発表日 指標、イベントなど 結果 コンセンサス 前回 
6/30（火） （韓国）5 月鉱工業生産（前年比） 
（中国）6 月製造業 PMI 
6 月非製造業 PMI 
▲0.9％ 
50.3 
50.2 
＋4.0％ 
50.1 
- - 
＋1.5％ 
50.0 
50.1 
7/1（水） （韓国）6 月輸出（前年比） 
6 月輸入（前年比） 
（中国）6 月 RatingDog 製造業 PMI 
（インドネシア）6 月消費者物価（前年比） 
5 月輸出（前年比） 
5 月輸入（前年比） 
＋70.9％ 
＋30.1％ 
51.7 
＋3.34％ 
▲5.73％ 
＋22.16％ 
＋61.0％ 
＋26.3％ 
51.6 
＋3.20％ 
＋5.20％ 
＋18.26％ 
＋53.4％ 
＋20.7％ 
51.8 
＋3.08％ 
＋21.98％ 
＋22.49％ 
7/2（木） （韓国）6 月消費者物価（前年比） ＋3.2％ ＋3.2％ ＋3.1％ 
（注）コンセンサスは Bloomberg 及び THOMSON REUTERS 調査。灰色で囲んでいる指標は本レポートで解説を行っています。 
[韓国]～半導体のみならず幅広い分野で輸出が拡大し、６月の輸出額は過去最高を更新～ 
30 日に発表された５月の鉱工業生産は前年同月比▲0.9％となり、 前月 （同＋1.5％） から３ヵ月
ぶりに前年を下回った。前月比も▲3.0％と前月（同▲0.7％）から２ヵ月連続で減少しており、中
期的な基調も減少傾向に転じるなど、頭打ちの動きを強めている。業種別では、建設業やサービス
業で生産拡大の動きがみられるものの、 鉱業や製造業における生産減少が全体の重しとなった。 製
造業では、 自動車など輸送用機械関連や衣料品など縫製品関連の生産は拡大したものの、 主力の輸
出財である半導体をはじめとする電子部品関連のほか、電気機械関連、金属関連、化学関連など幅
広い分野で生産が減少したことが足かせとなった。 
１日に発表された６月の輸出額は前年同月比＋70.9％となり、前月（同＋53.4％）から伸びが加
速した。 当局が試算した季節調整値に基づく前月比も８ヵ月連続で拡大しており、 単月ベースの輸
出額は過去最高を更新した。財別では、主力の輸出財である記憶装置の輸出額が前年比で 4.5 倍、
コンピュータも同４倍となったほか、 半導体が同３倍、 半導体チップパッケージが同2.7 倍となる
など、世界的なＡＩ（人工知能）関連投資の拡大が追い風となっている様子がうかがえる。半導体
関連以外でも、 中東情勢の緊迫化を受けた原油高を反映して石油製品関連が前年比1.5 倍となった

### Page 2

2/4 
ほか、携帯電話など移動通信機器も同1.5 倍、化粧品が同1.4 倍となるなど、幅広い分野で拡大す
る動きが確認されている。国・地域別では、中東向けに下押し圧力がかかったものの、最大の輸出
相手である中国向けのほか、米国向けが旺盛な動きをみせるとともに、欧州向けや日本向け、ＡＳ
ＥＡＮなどアジア新興国向けの堅調さが輸出全体を押し上げた。一方、輸入額は前年同月比＋
30.1％となり、前月（同＋20.7％）から伸びが加速した。前月比も７ヵ月連続で拡大したと試算さ
れるとともに、単月ベースの輸入額も過去最高を更新した。輸出の旺盛さを反映して素材・部材な
どの輸入が活発化していることに加え、 原油をはじめとする商品市況の上昇によって輸入額が押し
上げられたほか、 調達先の多様化や調達の積極化も影響し、 幅広く輸入が拡大する動きがみられる。
その結果、貿易収支は＋361.49 億ドルと前月（＋270.36 億ドル）から黒字幅が拡大し、単月ベー
スで過去最高となった。 
２日に発表された６月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋3.2％となり、 前月 （同＋3.1％） から加速し、
2023 年 12 月以来の高い伸びとなった。また、４ヵ月連続で中銀目標（２％）を上回る伸びで推移
している。前月比は＋0.06％と前月（同＋0.46％）から上昇ペースが鈍化しており、原油価格の上
昇一服を反映してエネルギー価格が落ち着きを取り戻す一方、 食料品価格は総じて上昇基調を強め
るなど、 生活必需品の物価動向にはばらつきが生じている。 食料品とエネルギーを除いたコアイン
フレ率は前年同月比＋2.5％と前月（同＋2.5％）と同じ伸びとなったものの、総合インフレ率と同
様に中銀目標を上回る推移が続いている。前月比は＋0.01％と前月（同＋0.51％）から上昇ペース
が鈍化しており、エネルギー価格の上昇一服を受けて輸送コストに下押し圧力がかかるとともに、
幅広くサービス物価が下振れする動きがみられる。 しかし、 原材料価格の上昇を財価格へ転嫁する
動きに加え、 金融市場におけるウォン安に伴う輸入物価の上昇も重なり、 財価格には上昇圧力が強
まる動きが確認されている。

図 1 KR 鉱工業生産の推移        図 2 KR 貿易動向の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成  （出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 3

3/4

[中国]～民間製造業 PMI は 50 超で推移、外需に不透明感が残る一方、内需の底堅さを示唆する動きも～ 
１日にＳ＆Ｐグローバルが発表した６月のRatingDog 製造業ＰＭＩ （購買担当者景況感） は51.7
と、 好不況の分かれ目となる50 を上回る推移が続いたものの、 前月 （51.8） から小幅に低下した。
生産動向を示す「生産（52.8） 」は引き続き50 を大きく上回ったものの、前月比▲0.6pt 低下して
おり、生産拡大の動きに一服感が出ている。先行きの生産を左右する「新規受注（52.7） 」は同＋
0.2pt 上昇した一方、 「輸出向け新規受注（49.4） 」は同▲0.2pt 低下して２ヵ月連続で50 を下回る
など、外需を中心に不透明感が残る。中東情勢の緊迫化を受けた原油高が一服したことを背景に、
「調達価格 （52.4） 」 は前月比▲3.4pt 低下して５ヵ月ぶりの低水準となった。 一方、 「出荷価格 （52.2）」
は同＋0.2pt 上昇しており、過去の原材料価格上昇分を製品価格に転嫁する動きがうかがえる。ま
た、 「原材料在庫（50.7） 」は同▲1.0pt 低下した一方、内需向けを中心とする受注の堅調さを反映
して「購入量（52.4） 」は同＋0.1pt 上昇しており、原材料需要の底堅さが示唆される。 「完成品在
庫（50.2） 」は同▲0.4pt 低下しており、 緩やかに在庫調整が進む動きもみられる。なお、 生産拡大
の動きには一服感がみられるものの、 「雇用 （50.5） 」 は前月比＋0.7pt 上昇して３ヵ月ぶりに50 を
上回るなど、雇用にも拡大の動きが出ている。

[インドネシア]～生活必需品を中心に幅広く物価上昇が進み､インフレ率は着実に加速している～ 
１日に発表された６月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋3.34％となり、前月（同＋3.08％）から加速
して３ヵ月ぶりの高い伸びとなった。 一方、 中銀目標 （2.5±１％） のレンジ内での推移は続いてい
る。前月比も＋0.44％と前月（同＋0.28％）から上昇ペースが加速しており、中東情勢の緊迫化を
図 3 KR インフレ率 の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成   
図 4 CN RatingDog 製造業 PMI の推移

（出所）S&P グローバルより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 4

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
4/4 
受けた原油高を反映してエネルギー価格が上昇基調を強めているほか、 生鮮品をはじめとする食料
品価格も上昇するなど、生活必需品を中心とする物価上昇が続いている。なお、食料品とエネルギ
ーを除いたコアインフレ率は前年同月比＋2.76％となり、 前月 （同＋2.59％） から加速して2023 年
４月以来の高い伸びとなったものの、 インフレ率とともに中銀目標のレンジ内で推移している。 前
月比は＋0.23％と前月（同＋0.22％）からわずかに上昇ペースが加速しており、原材料価格の上昇
による価格転嫁の動きに加え、 エネルギー価格の上昇に伴う輸送コストの上昇、 金融市場における
ルピア安による輸入物価の上昇も重なり、 財価格は幅広く上昇している。 サービス物価にも上昇圧
力がくすぶるなど、全般的にインフレ圧力が強まる動きがみられる。 
同日に発表された５月の輸出額は前年同月比▲5.73％となり、 前月 （同＋21.98％） から２ヵ月ぶ
りに前年を下回る伸びに転じた。 当研究所が試算した季節調整値に基づく前月比も２ヵ月ぶりの減
少に転じており、中期的な基調も減少傾向となるなど頭打ちの動きを強めている。財別では、原油
や天然ガスの輸出が大きく下振れするとともに、その他の鉱物資源のほか、農産品関連、製造業関
連など全般的に輸出に下押し圧力がかかった。一方、輸入額は前年同月比＋22.16％となり、前月
（同＋22.49％）からわずかに伸びが鈍化した。前月比は２ヵ月ぶりの減少に転じたと試算される
ものの、中期的な基調は拡大傾向で推移しており、輸出とは対照的に堅調な動きをみせている。財
別では、 天然ガス関連の輸入額が押し上げられるとともに、 輸送用機械関連の輸入も堅調な動きを
みせる一方、機械製品関連や金属関連、穀物など食料品関連の輸入は総じて下振れするなど、ばら
つきがみられた。その結果、貿易収支は▲16.10 億ドルと前月（＋0.89 億ドル）から悪化し、約６
年ぶりの赤字に転じている。

以 上 
図 5 ID インフレ率の推移        図 6 ID 貿易動向の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成  （出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成
