# Financial Report Source 12

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 044: 20年来最大同期涨幅！亚洲大米5月涨了20%

Source PDF: all report pdf/20年来最大同期涨幅！亚洲大米5月涨了20%.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-05-30
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

受战争导致霍尔⽊兹海峡近乎封锁影响，燃料与化肥供应受阻，叠加厄尔尼诺天⽓⻛险，
亚洲⼤⽶价格 5 ⽉录得近⼆⼗年最⼤单⽉涨幅，泰国⽩⽶上涨 20% 。化肥成本飙升 40% ⾄
50% ，部分农⼾被迫减产或放弃播种。
摘要：
战争与天⽓威胁供应前景，亚洲⼤⽶价格 5 ⽉录得近⼆⼗年来最⼤单⽉涨幅。
5 ⽉，作为亚洲基准价格参考的泰国⽩⽶上涨 20% ，创下⾄少⾃ 2008 年有数据记录以来最⼤单⽉
涨幅。芝加哥期货交易所⼤⽶期货同期也跳涨 15% 。
受激战持续导致霍尔⽊兹海峡近乎封锁的影响，燃料与化肥供应持续受阻，亚洲各地农⼾正承
压于⾼企的⽣产投⼊成本，部分农⺠已被迫推迟或放弃播种。
惠誉旗下研究机构 BMI ⼤宗商品分析师 Bin Hui Ong 表⽰，价格将持续⾛⾼，预期中的厄尔尼诺
事件可能给亚洲部分地区带来更炎热⼲燥的天⽓，构成进⼀步上⾏⻛险。
不过，国际⾕物理事会市场分析师 Peter Clubb 指出，以印度为代表的主要产地库存充裕，加之
全球需求相对疲弱，国际市场的涨幅或因此受到⼀定限制。

化肥成本飙升，农⼾被迫减产
霍尔⽊兹海峡近乎关闭导致燃料与化肥贸易严重受阻，亚洲部分国家的农业⽣产体系⾼度依赖
进⼝。
据国际⽔稻研究所数据，⾃战争于 2 ⽉底爆发以来，泰国、柬埔寨和菲律宾的氮肥价格已累计上
涨约 40% ⾄ 50% 。
该研究所⽓候变化与政策分析⾼级科学家 Alisher Mirzabaev 表⽰，尽管各国在 3 ⽉⾄ 5 ⽉期间库
存尚属充裕，但若化肥贸易⽆法恢复正常，短缺局⾯可能很快浮现。
⼤⽶是公认的化肥密集型粮⻝作物，稻⽥灌溉⽔泵通常以柴油驱动，使得投⼊成本对燃油价格
⾼度敏感。
据彭博社报道，在越南南部永隆省， 60 岁农⺠ Tran Van Be Bay 往年每年种植三季⽔稻，但⾯对
化肥价格暴涨，他计划今年跳过⼀轮种植。他说：
随着主产季播种在亚洲多地陆续展开，类似选择正在各地农⼾中蔓延。
厄尔尼诺⻛险加剧供应压⼒
天⽓因素进⼀步放⼤了当前的供应不确定性。
厄尔尼诺现象预计将给亚洲部分地区带来更⾼温⼲旱的⽓候条件，对本已承压的⽔稻⽣产构成
额外冲击。
成本上涨加上天⽓炎热，现在不是播种的好时机，多施化肥不仅花费更⾼，还会伤害植株。

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
57 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
菲律宾已率先发出警告，强厄尔尼诺事件可能导致该国稻⾕产量减少多达 70 万吨，相当于年度
⽣产⽬标的 3.5% 。
作为亚洲主要⼤⽶进⼝国，菲律宾的减产信号对区域供需格局，具有重要的⻛险指⽰意义。
BMI 的 Bin Hui Ong 表⽰，厄尔尼诺预期为⼤⽶价格提供了进⼀步上⾏空间，并已促使该机构上
调了对芝加哥⼤⽶期货的价格预测。
⼤⽶对于亚洲粮⻝安全⾄关重要，泰国、越南和印度等主产国同时也是全球重要的⼤⽶出⼝来
源，亚洲产量下滑的影响势必向全球市场传导。
库存充裕或限制国际市场涨幅
尽管短期利多因素显著，全球市场的价格涨势仍可能⾯临天花板。
国际⾕物理事会市场分析师 Peter Clubb 指出，主要产地尤其是印度的⼤⽶库存较为充裕，加之
全球整体需求相对疲弱，这两⼤因素将在⼀定程度上压制国际价格的上⾏空间。

这意味着，当前价格压⼒更多体现为区域性现象，特别集中于⾼度依赖进⼝的亚洲经济体。
对于这些国家⽽⾔，⽆论国际市场是否出现⼤幅波动，本地⽣产成本的抬升与潜在产量缩减，
已构成切实的粮⻝安全与通胀⻛险，政策应对的紧迫性正在上升。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 159: April CPI_ preview and analysis (2026-05-30)

Source PDF: all report pdf/April CPI_ preview and analysis (2026-05-30).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-05-30
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts 
are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
APRIL CPI
PREVIEW AND ANALYSIS
Broader inflation impulse not far behind
22 May 2026
Key points
• Headline CPI is expected to rise 0.9%mth 
in April, taking the annual pace to 4.8%yr. 
• Key contributors to the monthly rise 
include holiday-travel and clothing & 
footwear. Transport is expected to detract 
owing to the halving in the fuel excise 
and free public transport in some states.
• The monthly trimmed mean estimate 
is 0.4%mth, with the annual pace 
lifting to 3.5%yr. It is expected 
to peak at 4.0%yr in October.
• In March, the impact of the Middle 
East conflict on prices was limited 
beyond fuel. However, there are signs 
of emerging pass-through – including 
business surveys, construction material 
price notifications and anecdotal 
evidence of fuel surcharges by food 
outlets – meaning the April CPI will 
be closely watched for evidence that 
cost pressures are broadening.

Breakdown: Jun Quarter CPI & Apr Monthly CPI
Jun Feb Mar Apr
Qtr fcs Mth Mth Mth fcs 
Item % qtr % mth % mth % mth
Food 1.6 –0.1 0.7 0.7
  of which, bread & cereals –0.3 –1.2 0.3 0.1
  of which, meat & seafood 0.8 0.5 0.5 –0.2
  of which, dairy & related prod. 1.7 -0.6 0.8 1.0
  of which, fruit & vegetables 7.3 0.0 2.6 3.5
  of which, food products nec 0.8 –1.1 0.1 0.9
  of which, non–alcohol bev. 1.4 0.7 1.1 –0.8
Alcohol & tobacco 1.0 0.2 0.8 0.0
  of which, alcohol 0.6 0.1 0.7 –0.4
  of which, tobacco 1.9 0.4 1.1 1.0
Clothing & footwear 2.5 2.6 –1.9 4.6
  of which, garments 3.1 2.9 –2.5 5.7
Housing 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.2
  of which, rents 0.9 0.4 0.2 0.2
  of which, house purchases 1.1 0.1 0.5 0.4
  of which, electricity 0.3 1.0 0.0 0.0
  of which, gas & other fuels –0.5 –0.1 0.0 –0.6
H/hold contents & services 0.6 3.9 0.3 0.8
Health 1.7 0.1 –0.2 1.9
Transportation 3.9 –0.7 9.2 –1.1
  of which, auto fuel 12.1 –3.4 32.8 –4.2
Communication 0.6 0.2 0.5 0.4
Recreation 1.7 –3.0 –0.7 4.0
  of which, holiday travel 2.9 –6.3 –1.4 7.6
Education 0.5 4.5 0.0 0.0
Financial & insurance services 1.1 0.1 0.8 0.2
CPI: All groups 1.5 0.0 1.1 0.9
Sources: ABS, Westpac Banking Corporation

### Page 2

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts 
are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
BULLETIN
Initial price shock limited to fuel  ...
The March monthly CPI provided only an early read on any 
inflationary impulse from escalations in the Middle East. 
Headline CPI rose 1.1%mth to 4.6%yr, while the monthly 
trimmed mean (TM) increased 0.3%mth, leaving the annual 
pace steady since December at 3.3%yr. With the oil shock 
emerging in late February and fuel prices rising sharply in 
early March, the timing suggests the March outcome was too 
early to capture any broad-based pass-through beyond the 
immediate channels.
Fuel was unsurprisingly the key transmission channel, with 
auto fuel prices rising 32.8%mth and contributing 1ppt to 
the monthly headline print. Outside of fuel, pass-through 
was more limited and uneven, with only scattered increases 
in categories more exposed to upstream cost pressures, 
including dwelling construction (0.5%mth), vehicle repairs 
(0.4%mth) and communication (0.5%mth) (see here).
Several categories that would typically be exposed to 
spillovers showed no pre -emptive price adjustments. Holiday 
travel prices declined (–1.4%mth). This may also reflect timing 
effects, with most tickets purchased in advance but only 
recorded in the CPI in the month the trip is undertaken. Other 
tradables components were also softer, including household 
appliances and clothing & footwear.
The Governor’s commentary following the May meeting 
characterised the cumulative interest rate rises as addressing 
the pressures existing before the conflict. Measures that 
better reflect these pressures, such as the TM and domestic 
market services, have seen some easing in momentum since 
last year. The six-month annualised pace of the TM slowed 
from 3.7% in December to 3.3% in March, while domestic 
market services eased from 5.2% to 3.7%. Both measures 
remain elevated but the moderation suggests that underlying 
pressures were beginning to ease prior to the energy shock.
... second-round pass-through not far off  
The Monetary Policy Board has signalled it now has scope to 
assess how the conflict evolves, but we suspect that second-
round pass-through may already be underway and will likely 
proceed more quickly than assumed in the RBA’s latest 
forecasts. The April NAB Business Survey showed a further 
intensification in cost pressures, with purchase cost growth 
matching last month’s record and lifting the quarterly pace to 
4.5%qtr. Selling prices also saw its sharpest increase since 
July 2022, suggesting a broader pass-through is beginning to 
emerge (see here).
Pass-through signals build – will it show up in the CPI?
Neha Sharma
Economist

Breakdown Monthly CPI Indicator
Jan Feb Mar Apr
Mth Mth Mth Mth fcs 
Item %yr %yr %yr %yr
Food 3.1 3.1 3.1 3.4
  of which, bread & cereals 1.0 1.0 0.6 1.0
  of which, meat & seafood 4.5 4.5 4.8 5.2
  of which, dairy prod. 2.7 2.7 2.5 3.5
  of which, fruit & vegetables 1.9 1.9 1.8 3.0
  of which, food products 3.1 3.1 2.9 2.9
  of which, non–alcohol bev. 2.0 2.0 2.2 2.0
Alcohol & tobacco 4.3 4.3 4.4 4.8
  of which, alcohol 1.4 1.4 1.7 2.2
  of which, tobacco 11.5 11.5 11.2 11.1
Clothing & footwear 5.0 5.0 7.1 6.7
  of which, garments 3.2 3.2 4.3 4.1
Housing 7.2 7.2 6.5 6.3
  of which, rents 3.8 3.8 3.7 3.5
  of which, house purchases 3.7 3.7 4.5 4.3
  of which, electricity 37.0 37.0 25.4 23.6
  of which, gas & other fuels 5.5 5.5 5.7 5.7
H/hold contents & services 1.3 1.3 1.4 1.7
Health 3.2 3.2 3.0 3.3
Transportation –0.2 –0.2 8.9 8.4
  of which, auto fuel –7.2 –7.2 24.2 22.2
Communication 0.8 0.8 1.4 1.6
Recreation 4.1 4.1 2.8 3.9
  of which, holiday travel 5.3 5.3 2.2 3.7
Education 4.8 4.8 4.8 4.8
Financial & insurance 2.4 2.4 2.8 3.1
CPI: All groups 3.7 3.7 4.6 4.8
Sources: ABS, Westpac Banking Corporation

### Page 3

are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
BULLETIN
Additionally, diesel prices continued to rise across both retail
(+17.5%mth) and wholesale (+7.7%mth) markets in April, with
only modest falls seen in May so far. Given diesel’s role across
freight, construction and production, the recent increases are

more likely to transmit through supply chains, increasing the
risk of more persistent second -round inflationary effects. The
reduction in the heavy vehicle road user charge should help to
ease some pressure, however.
There is a risk that the extent of cost pass-through proves
more limited if deeply pessimistic consumer sentiment  causes
a pullback in spending. Our internal card data  is already
pointing to some softening, particularly across discretionary

goods and services.
April is seasonally stronger
Turning to April, we expect a 0.9%mth increase in the
headline CPI, equivalent to a 0.3%mth rise in seasonally
adjusted terms. This represents a step-up from the 0.7%mth
increase last April, lifting the annual pace to 4.8%yr.
The largest contributors to the monthly print are recreation &
culture (+0.5ppts) and clothing & footwear (+0.2ppts), with
health and food each contributing just over +0.1ppt, while

transport is expected to detract –0.1ppt.
We estimate a 0.4%mth rise in the monthly TM, lifting the
annual pace to 3.5%yr. Looking ahead, the TM is expected to
rise 0.3%mth in both May and June and 0.4%mth in July, with
annual TM inflation peaking at 4.0%yr in October.
Key details
Food prices will likely see another 0.7%mth increase in April,
owing to a 3.5%mth lift in fruit & vegetables. We also expect
a 0.3%mth increase in meals out & takeaway. There has been

anecdotal evidence of some food outlets introducing a fuel
surcharge with the Australian Restaurant and Cafe Association
also endorsing venues to introduce a temporary 5% surcharge.
Recreation & culture is expected to rise 4.0%mth, reflecting
a lift in holiday travel & accommodation (7.3%mth), though
pricing may continue to reflect pre-conflict conditions and
poses a downside risk.
Clothing & footwear is expected to rise 4.6%mth, with
garments up 5.7%mth and footwear up 4.0%mth.

Housing inflation is expected to rise 0.2%mth.
• We pencil in a 0.2%mth increase in rents in April. While this
remains modest, advertised rent growth has been trending
higher since late last year and should begin to feed through to
CPI rents in the coming months.
• New dwelling costs are expected to rise 0.4%mth/4.3%yr,
broadly in line with the average pace over the past year, with
annual growth projected to peak at 4.9%yr in June 2026 as
upstream materials costs continue to pass through. Tradelink

data shows an average price change notification of 16% in

### Page 4

are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
April, the largest in the series’ six-year history, with notified
average increases rising to 17% in May before easing to
around 7% in the three months following.
• Electricity prices are expected to be flat in April. Government

subsidy programs have ended, and no new energy bill relief was
announced in either the Federal Budget or recent state budgets.
Health is expected to rise 1.9%mth. This is driven by a
2.7%mth (0.8%mth seasonally adjusted) increase in medical
and hospital services, reflecting the 4.41% increase in private
health insurance premiums taking effect from April – the
largest approved rise since 2017.
Transport is expected to fall –1.1%mth, following a 9.2%mth

increase in March.
• Auto fuel prices likely fell –4.2%mth, reflecting the temporary
halving of the fuel excise from 1 April, which saw average
petrol pump prices decline by around –8.4%mth (~20c/l).
With no extensions announced, this will reverse from July.
• Urban transport fares are expected to decline –1.5%mth
following the introduction of free public transport in some
states. Victoria initially announced one month of free public
transport in April, later extended to end-May, with half-price

fares to follow through to end-January 2027, while Tasmania
has introduced free bus and ferry services through to July 2027.
• These declines are partly offset by increases in vehicle repair
& maintenance (0.5%mth) and motor vehicles (0.3%mth).
BULLETIN
Tweaks to the quarterly profile
We revised our assumptions surrounding the Middle East
conflict in our May Market Outlook . Brent oil is now expected
to average $US125/bbl in Q2. This has resulted in the changes

to our quarterly inflation profile reported in Market Outlook.
Headline inflation is now expected to peak lower at 5.0%yr in
Q3 2026, but prove more persistent, ending the year at 4.9%yr
(+0.3ppts) and reaching 2.5%yr (+0.1ppt) by end-2027.
Changes to the quarterly TM profile have been more modest,
with a 1.1%qtr/3.9%yr rise expected in Q2 before easing
gradually to 3.6%yr (+0.1ppt) by mid-next year.
Monthly inflation profile
Apr–26 May–26 Jun–26 Jul-26 Aug-26 Sep-26 Oct-26 Nov-26 Dec-26

CPI Index 103.4 103.2 103.6 104.6 104.7 105.1 105.3 105.0 106.2
(%mth) 0.9 –0.3 0.4 0.9 0.1 0.4 0.1 –0.3 1.1
(%yr) 4.8 5.0 5.3 4.9 5.2 5.1 5.3 5.0 5.2
Trimmed mean (%mth) 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.3
(%yr) 3.5 3.7 3.8 3.8 3.9 3.8 4.0 3.8 3.8
(6mth ann’d) 3.5 3.7 3.9 4.1 4.5 4.4 4.4 3.9 3.8
Source: ABS, Westpac Economics.

### Page 6

are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
DISCLAIMER
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,

employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.
Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially

for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under
copyright of the Westpac Group. None of the material, nor its
contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

### Page 7

are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
DISCLAIMER
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it

you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in
Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account

and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is
represented in Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited.
The liability of its members is limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as a federally
licensed branch, regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures

Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.
Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (‘the Exchange Act’) and member of

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the
Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated

in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may
otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being referred
to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person
should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents.
In the same way, the information contained in this communication is
intended for “eligible counterparties” and “professional clients” as
defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not

intended for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from
passing on the information in this communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)

and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin
and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-

participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG
and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution

or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.
This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

---
## Document 160: Australia and NZ Weekly 1 June 2026 (2026-06-01)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Australia and NZ Weekly 1 June 2026 (2026-06-01).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-06-01
Pages: 15
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIA &
NEW ZEALAND
WEEKLY
Week beginning 1 June 2026
In this week’s edition:
Economic Insight: Peering below the surface.
The Week That Was: AI goes from strength to strength.
Focus on New Zealand: RBNZ creeping towards hikes.
For the week ahead:

Australia: RBA's Bullock and Hauser, Q1 national accounts, house prices and approvals, goods trade.
New Zealand: Building consents, building work, terms of trade.
China: RatingDog PMIs.
Euro area: HICP inflation, producer prices, retails sales, final Q1 GDP estimate.
United States: May labour market report, factory orders, ISM PMIs, job openings.
Analysis and forecasts for this week’s key releases.
Information contained in this report current as at 29 May 2026.

### Page 2

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
It will not jump to rash conclusions based on headline
numbers. It will, however, want to take a pause to assess how
dominant and lasting these below-the-surface trends will be.
To the extent that we can glean anything from the RBA’s latest
communications, it is that – like us – they are worried about

second-stage pass-through of energy costs. Recent research,
which was presented to the May meeting of the Monetary
Policy Board and discussed in a  subsequent speech  by the
RBA’s chief economist, highlights that pass-through is larger
and faster following a large shock than after a small one.
This is not exactly a new result. The RBA has known that the
“Phillips curve” relationship between inflation and labour
market slack is nonlinear for about three decades . Their main

whole-economy model incorporates this nonlinearity , though
it does not seem to be in the model used in the speech to
highlight the different behaviour of inflation that it implies.
And the linkage of this nonlinear relationship to the size of the
shock is an implication of so-called “menu cost” models that
has been known to other central banks for at least 20 years,
both in theory and in other countries’ data, though this link
wasn’t recognised when the original RBA nonlinearity paper

was published.
Quantifying this effect accurately arguably had to wait
until the dataset used in the recent research paper became
available. The 1990s-era empirical result means it is
nonetheless unlikely that the RBA’s existing forecasting
framework would have entirely missed faster pass-through of
larger supply shocks, even if the theory behind it was not fully
recognised at the time. But the recent communication does
speak to the balance of risks that the RBA perceives.

It is possible, though, that the RBA’s current analysis misses
some other trends under the surface.
As highlighted by Westpac Economics colleague Ryan Wells’
note yesterday, as best as we can tell, official family forecasters’
views about the outlook for labour supply have diverged.
Commonwealth Treasury shares our view that the underlying
trend in the participation rate is up. This is a departure from
its longstanding assumption that population ageing shrinks

the workforce. As we have been highlighting for a while, the
opposite is true in Australia and most other advanced economies.
ECONOMIC INSIGHT
• Headline data can sometimes mislead. One needs to delve
into the detail to get the full story. Headline inflation was
softer than expected in April, but underlying trends told
a different story. Likewise, employment growth was weak
in the month, but this was mostly seasonal and hours
worked told a different story. Productivity growth is also

likely to have been weak in Q1; again, business investment
data give reason not to despair about the trend.
• The RBA has the knowledge and resources to delve into
the detail and not be misled by the surface figures. It is
clearly concerned about the possibility that the energy
price shock will pass through to other prices at scale,
keeping inflation high. New detailed datasets have
become available that allow its staff to quantify some
important relationships more accurately.

• The economy is a complicated thing, though, and it is
possible that the RBA’s analysis of the outlook is missing
some important trends and relationships. Structural
change is especially hard to grapple with. Shifts in labour
market trends and the consequences of the data centre
boom might be being misunderstood, though hopefully
not for long.
Recent data have tended to tell a different story than the
headline figures would suggest. Headline inflation was soft

in April, but underlying measures were still too high and, if
anything, still drifting up. Employment was even weaker than
seasonal patterns implied in the month, but the hours worked
data told the opposite story . And productivity growth is likely
to be reported to have been weak in the March quarter, but this
is partly because much data centre investment is in the build
phase, and will only add to GDP and productivity later.
These contrasts are all examples of why one can be misled by

focusing on a few headline figures. Accurately assessing the
state of the economy requires a considered view of the whole
picture. There is no substitute for delving into all the data detail.
In doing so, one must also guard against seizing on the data
detail that fits your preferred narrative. For example, we remain
concerned that pass-through of fuel prices to the prices of other
goods and services will be extensive, and we are seeing some
evidence of pass-through in homebuilding costs and hospitality

already in the April CPI. It is nonetheless also true that pass-
through has so far been a bit less than we feared.
The RBA understands the subtleties of Australia’s economic
data and has the resources to look below the surface properly.
Peering below the surface
Luci Ellis
Chief Economist, Westpac Group
“Topline data, on their own, can
mislead.”

### Page 3

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
By contrast, the RBA’s forecast is for a flat participation rate this 
year and a decline next year as job opportunities diminish. The 
labour demand effect is assumed to dominate.  
To be fair, Assistant Governor Hunter’s speech did 
acknowledge that extra labour supply is a possible response 
to cost-of-living pressures, citing a recent IMF working paper 
that used Australian data to show this. But they acknowledge 
it only as a risk, not as their base case. It is also a cyclical 
factor, not the underlying trend discussed above. Past RBA 
communication has acknowledged this upward trend, but the 
latest Statement on Monetary Policy did not mention it.  As 
Ryan commented in his note, the labour demand effect will 
have to work hard to offset this trend and generate the decline 
the RBA assumes.  
(As an aside, I find it interesting that this paper was released 
as an IMF Working Paper and not an RBA Research Discussion 
Paper. Yes, three of the authors are from the IMF, but one is the 
deputy head of the RBA’s Economic Research department and 
likely the only one authorised to access the detailed tax and 
Census linked dataset directly. Likewise, it is interesting that the 
speech cited the paper in the context of cost-of-living pressures, 
not the – admittedly small at a macro level –positive labour 
supply response to monetary policy that the paper focused on.)  
It is also possible that the RBA’s forecasting framework has 
not fully absorbed the implications of the build phase of the AI 
boom. Capex data released recently shows a huge contribution  
from data centres and IT investment more broadly – bigger 
than even our top-of-market expectation. Business investment 
will be strong, but as Westpac Economics colleague Pat 
Bustamante points out today, the imported component is very 
large, especially in the fit-out stage. A fixed view of potential 
growth in supply capacity will interpret this growth as adding 
to capacity pressures, even though it is literally building 
capacity. And like the mining investment boom, the build 
phase actually drags on measured productivity, as workers 
labour to build capital stock that is not yet producing anything. 
Will a weak outcome for measured labour productivity in 
Q1 nudge the RBA to become even gloomier about ongoing 
productivity trends, even though it is likely a temporary lag? 
Let’s hope the team at the RBA remember to look below the 
surface.

Forecast changes
• Following the April monthly CPI release, we have 
revised the near‑term profile for inflation lower. CPI 
inflation is now expected to reach 4.8%yr in Q2 (–0.1ppt) 
and peak at 5.0%yr in Q3 (unchanged). 
• Trimmed mean inflation was revised down 0.1ppt in Q2 
and Q3 and is now expected to peak at 4.0%yr in Q4. 
• These revisions do not change the RBA cash rate 
outlook, with hikes still expected in August and 
September.
• Following a release of partial indicators this week, 
our Q1 Australian GDP forecast remains unchanged at 
0.5%qtr.

### Page 4

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
THE WEEK THAT WAS
Cliff Notes: AI goes from strength to strength
despite several US strikes on Iranian military assets in the
Strait, which were perceived to be active threats to shipping
and dealt with. The successful transiting of several ships was

instead focused upon as evidence to an end to the conflict was
near. Having tested the top of 2026’s range early last week,
circa US$110 per barrel, the price of Brent crude has since
fallen to around US$94.
As we go to press, reports suggest a 60-day ceasefire has
been agreed to by the US and Iran, but this time it includes a
full resumption of shipping through the Strait within a month.
The intent is to allow supply of energy and other goods to

resume, alleviating stress on the Iranian and global economy,
while negotiations continue over Tehran’s nuclear program.
President Trump still needs to agree to the deal, however.
And, further ahead, while November’s US mid-term elections
will, if necessary, arguably warrant an extension of the
ceasefire to year end, the complexity and significance of the
nuclear negotiations could see the conflict flare again in 2027.
For the foreseeable future, the price of oil and downstream

margins are likely to depend not only on the current balance of
physical demand and supply, but also a heightened awareness
of political risk.
Of this week’s US data, releases related to the consumer were
most notable. The second estimate for US GDP was revised
down from 2.0% annualised to 1.6%, in large part due to
weaker consumption growth. At 1.4% annualised, the current
consumer pulse is well below the historic trend circa 2.5%
and looks to be entrenched – real personal consumption up

just 0.1% in April as wage growth failed to keep pace with
inflation (0.2%). Housing is also clearly under pressure, S&P
Cotality house prices falling for a second consecutive month
(-0.2%, +0.8%yr), and new home sales down 6.2% in April
after March’s gain was halved from 7.4% to 3.4%.
FOMC members prioritising inflation risks is notable given the
subdued pulse for housing demand. While market participants
have been debating the probability of a fed funds rate hike(s)

over the coming year, for activity it is the implications for the
long end of the yield curve that matter most. The FOMC may
find they do not need to hike, as we currently forecast, because
inflation risks and fiscal uncertainty result in a modest uptrend in
the US 10-year yield. Since mid-April, the US 10-year has risen
as much as 40bps to 4.67% because of these factors. Now at
4.44%, we see it rising to 4.75% by mid-2028.
Australia’s main market event this week was the April CPI

which came in slightly below consensus on a headline basis
(0.4%, 4.2%yr). Volatile, policy-driven components related
to travel drove the outcome – the Federal Government’s
temporary halving of fuel excise and some state
governments offering free public transport, while cancelled
flights and refunds for holiday travel provided a partial
offset. These dynamics were also the main factors behind
household spending's April decline.
Trimmed mean inflation meanwhile met expectations (0.3%,

3.4%yr). Pass-through of higher fuel costs is evident in some
areas – home-building costs registered its strongest monthly
gain since November 2023. However, the pass-through is
not unfolding as rapidly as we initially feared. While April’s
outcome will give the RBA space to pause and assess in June,
the risk of a larger and faster pass-through in coming months
is material. We believe the RBA will feel compelled to resume
raising the cash rate in the second half of the year as these

risks crystalise.
In the run-up to Q1 GDP next Wednesday, we also received
two partial indicators for investment.
Construction activity  rose 3.4% in Q1, pushing annual growth
to 6.3%yr. This outsized gain was mostly driven by a large
mining infrastructure installation in WA – lumpy completions
like these have a much smaller impact on National Accounts
estimates which are reported on an accrual basis. Activity
was weak elsewhere, residential construction dipping 0.6%

despite a solid project pipeline, and public infrastructure
works trending lower, down –3.2%.
Private CAPEX  subsequently surprised to the upside,
surging 6.5% in Q1 to be up 14.6% over the year. Data
centres were responsible for almost all the increase:
machinery and equipment spending in the information and
telecommunications sector almost tripling (+196%) in Q1
alone. It should be noted that the net impact on GDP will be
limited given the high import component of the data centre

build-out. The second estimate of 2026/27 CAPEX plans
provided an upgrade; adjusting for inflation, real investment
intentions remained resilient as the Middle East conflict began.
While these headline estimates have their caveats, the underlying
detail suggests there is some modest upside risk to Q1 GDP. Our
preview will be published later today on Westpac IQ.
This week’s offshore data provided little fresh signal and,
for the market, paled in significance to perceived progress

towards a truce in the Middle East. Intermediated negotiations
between the US and Iran continued throughout the week
Elliot Clarke, Head of International Economics
Ryan Wells, Economist

### Page 5

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
5
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOCUS ON NEW ZEALAND
RBNZ creeping towards hikes
It was a big week for policy announcements in the
New Zealand economy. On the monetary policy front, the
RBNZ kept the OCR on hold at its latest policy meeting, but
signalled rate hikes over the coming months. We continue

to expect the first hike in September, but a July start could
be on the cards depending on the evolution of data. In terms
of fiscal policy, the latest Budget included only modest
spending increases as the Government tries to ensure its
financial position remains on a sustainable path.
Monetary policy tightrope
As expected, the RBNZ held the OCR at 2.25% at its May
policy meeting , but it was a close decision. The RBNZ is
weighing up how to respond to the complex combination of a

sharp oil-related lift in inflation with related downside risks
for economic activity. It’s not a simple trade-off, and there are
genuine uncertainties about how the longer-term inflation
outlook will shape up.
Highlighting just how tight that balancing act is, this month’s
decision went to a vote with members of the RBNZ’s Monetary
Policy Committee split down the middle. The three external
members of the Committee all voted for a hike, noting that

earlier interest rate increases could limit the upside risk for
inflation expectations and potentially limit the extent that
rates need to rise over the longer term.
In contrast, all three internal members of the Committee
including the Governor voted for a hold. These members
highlighted uncertainty around how the inflation outlook was
shaping up given the downside risks for activity, along with
related questions about the pass through to longer-term wage

and price setting behaviour.
In such circumstances, the Governor has the tie-breaking vote,
and that saw the OCR left on hold in May.
But while the OCR was left on hold at the latest meeting, all
Committee members agreed that it will likely need to rise over
the coming months. That was reflected in the updated OCR
profile, with the end of 2026 projection revised up to 2.84%
(from 2.38% in the February projections). That’s broadly
consistent with three rate hikes by the end of this year. The

RBNZ also signalled the chance of further rate hikes next year.
The big question is when OCR increases are likely to begin.
We continue to expect 25bp rate hikes in September, October
and December. However, an earlier start to the hiking cycle
in July is a real possibility, with financial markets pricing in a
roughly 80% chance of a hike at that tim e.
Comments from those MPC members who voted for a hold in
May have highlighted that the timing of interest rate hikes will

be highly dependent on economic conditions over the coming
weeks. The RBNZ will be watching economic data closely for
signs of pressure on wages and inflation expectations. On this
front, the latest confidence surveys for May (released after the
RBNZ’s meeting) showed modest increases in both household
and business confidence after they fell sharply in recent
months. At the same time, gauges of inflation expectations
and pricing intentions have moderated, but remain at firm

levels. Gauges of expected wage growth have also dropped
back, and they remain subdued.
Looking to the next few weeks, there will be further updates
on confidence and some activity updates, like card spending.
However, we won’t get meaningful information on inflation
and inflation expectations, GDP or wages until just before the
September meeting.
To help fill the data void, the RBNZ is also making use of
feedback from businesses. Our own talks with businesses in

recent weeks have highlighted widespread cost pressures.
However, conditions are mixed across the economy. Rural-
linked regions and industries are outperforming. In contrast,
businesses chasing the discretionary dollar are doing it tough,
and that’s limiting their pricing power.  On the labour front,
slack in the jobs market continues to provide a brake on wage
growth even as cost of living pressures mount.
The other key factor is the progress of the war and oil prices.

This is a fluid situation, and the RBNZ has noted that even
when the geopolitical situation improves, any easing in oil and
Satish Ranchhod
Senior Economist

### Page 6

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
inflation could be gradual. Nonetheless, developments on this
front could be an important consideration on both sides of the
debate. We certainly see the risk of a protracted disruption
stemming from the conflict.
A further consideration is the potential appointment of a new

MPC member, expected in June. The successful candidate may
come from outside the RBNZ but will become an internal MPC
staff member.
Putting this all together, there’s a clear case for the OCR to
rise over the coming months. Inflation is set to rise to well over
4% this year. That follows an extended period when prices
have been rising rapidly. As a result, there is a clear risk of a
damaging creep higher in inflation expectations which could
extend the inflation shock.

However, it’s not clear that evidence of such ‘second round’
inflation pressures will be evident by July. Furthermore, we
suspect that some of the RBNZ’s concerns about the downside
risks for activity will be borne out. As a result, we continue to
expect rate hikes will begin in September, but it’s a close call
between the July and September meetings.
Moving closer to the promised land of fiscal
balance
The other big news this week was the release of Budget

2026. This was a relatively austere Budget for an election
year. While we did see increased spending in areas like health,
transport and education, those increases were relatively
modest. Looking ahead, as announced prior to the Budget, the
operating allowance for new operating spending in the coming
fiscal year has been set at a very tight $2.1bn a year (albeit up
from an even skinnier $1.3bn in Budget 2025).
Given the deterioration in the near-term economic outlook, the

Treasury forecasts an OBEGALx deficit of $11.4bn (2.4% of
GDP) in 2026/27, compared to the $10.4bn deficit forecast in
the HYEFU.
Further ahead, however, a set of relatively ‘tax-rich’ economic
forecasts and restrained spending growth drive a faster
improvement in the operating balance compared to the
Treasury’s previous HYEFU forecasts. Notably, the OBEGALx
is projected to return to a surplus of $2.6bn (0.5% of GDP) in
2028/29, a year earlier than in the HYEFU projections (and a

year earlier than we thought). The traditional OBEGAL measure
(which doesn’t exclude ACC costs) returns to surplus a year later.
The Budget forecasts of core Crown revenue are higher across
every year compared to the HYEFU, reflecting a higher level of
nominal GDP and hence a larger tax base in dollar terms. These
revenue forecasts were broadly in line with what we expected.
The robust nominal growth outlook means that the Treasury
sees a relatively “revenue rich” outlook from 2028 onwards.

This has allowed the Government to bring forward by
one year when they anticipate a OBEGALx surplus, with
correspondingly lower borrowing requirements. The forecast
bond programme in 2026/27 is unchanged and reduced by $2
billion a year in 2027/28 onwards.
While the Treasury is expecting an improving outlook for the
Government’s books, we see a number of risks to this outlook.
On expenditure, there will naturally be pressure to spend
more in areas like health and aged care. Similarly, we see

some downside risk to the Treasury’s forecast for GDP growth,
especially given the likelihood that interest rates rise faster
than they have assumed.

### Page 7

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUS: May Cotality Home Value Index (%mth)
Jun 1, Last: 0.2, Westpac f/c: –0.1
The Cotality home value index rose 0.2% in April - the
weakest monthly outcome since January 2025 - following
revised gains of 0.4%mth in March and 0.5%mth in February.
Annual growth eased to 9.1%yr.

May is expected to see a further slowdown with the daily
measure pointing to a slight 0.1% dip for the month as a
whole. The detail shows Sydney and Melbourne prices
declining at a similar pace as in April and the relatively robust
gains in Brisbane, Adelaide and Perth showing a clearer
moderation. Prices are expected to see outright declines
nationally in coming months as the combined impact of
rising interest rates and housing-related tax policy changes

announced in the Federal budget come through (see here for a
more detailed discussion of the outlook).
AUS: Q1 2026 Company Profits (%qtr)
Jun 2, Last: 0.0, Westpac f/c: 0.5
Headline company gross operating profits rose 5.8%qtr in the
December quarter 2025. The increase was broad-based, with
profits rising in all but three industries. The non-mining sector
recorded a 4.4%qtr increase in Q4 — the strongest quarterly
rise outside of COVID since the December quarter 2016, while

mining profits increased a solid 8.1%qtr, lifting year-ended
growth to 4.6% — the first year-ended increase since the
March quarter 2023.
Growth in company profits is expected to moderate to 0.5%qtr
in Q1. Non-mining profit growth is expected to show some
resilience in Q1 before the full impacts of the global fuel price
shock hit margins in Q2. Mining profits, on the other hand, are
expected to have fallen on the back of weaker export earnings.
Across iron ore, coal and LNG, export earnings fell almost

6%qtr over Q1.
AUS: Q1 Inventories (%qtr)
Jun 2, Last: –0.1, Westpac f/c: –0.1
Market f/c: zero, Range: –0.2 to 0.6
Private non-farm business inventories declined by 0.1% in the
December quarter 2025. The mining industry rebuilt some
inventories (0.7%qtr), while outside of mining outcomes were
mixed. Inventories were run down further in consumer-facing
industries, including hospitality (-3.0%qtr) and retail (-0.4%qtr),
while inventories in the utilities industry increased 3.7%qtr.

We expects non -farm business inventories declined 0.1%qtr in
Q1 2026. We estimate imports of consumption goods fell over
the quarter while consumption held steadier, suggesting some
of this demand was met by a rundown in inventories. There
is also likely to be a rundown of public inventories, including
vaccinations, as we approach flu season. Overall, we expect
total inventories (non -farm, farm and public) to detract around
0.1ppt from economic growth in Q1 2026.

### Page 8

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
8
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUS: Q1 Net Exports (ppt cont’n)
Jun 2, Last: -0.1, Westpac f/c:  –0.6
Market f/c: –0.6 Range: zero to –0.9
Net exports look to have detracted significantly from GDP
growth in Q1 – we expect a negative contribution of –0.6ppt.
Weak goods exports seem to be the main driver, despite

expected increases in rural goods and gold exports. Iron ore
and coal exports look to have fallen significantly, largely due
to severe weather disruptions to mining and trade, while
other goods exports also appear weak. Import volumes of
ADP equipment look to have doubled, driving a very sharp
increase in overall capital goods inflows. So, despite expected
small decreases in the consumption and intermediate goods
categories, overall goods imports look to have risen notably.

Falling numbers of international student visa holders and a
small decline in short-term visitor arrivals point to downside
risks to services exports.
AUS: Apr Dwelling Approvals (%mth)
Jun 2, Last: –10.5, Westpac f/c: –1.5
Market f/c: –1.5 Range: –5.0 to 5.0
Dwelling approvals fell sharply in March, the 10.5% decline
partially unwinding an even bigger 31% spike in February.
The annual pace eased but at 9%yr remained in solid positive,
supported by the large February gain. Volatility, as always, has

centred around high rise unit approvals. Other segments have
been more settled with detached house approvals showing a
firm up-trend that has accelerated since late last year.
The April update is likely to still have some residual noise
around high rise approvals with the February spike only
partially unwound in March. The non-high rise components
will be more revealing with the key question being the extent
to which rate rises are starting to impact. On balance, its likely

to be a little too early to see these effects. We expect April to
show a small further 1.5% decline in total dwelling approvals.
AUS: Q1 Current Account Balance ($bn)
Jun 2, Last: –21.1, Westpac f/c: –24.8
Market f/c:  –23.5 Range: –24.8 to –19.7
The current account deficit widened to $21.1bn in Q4, and we
expect it to increase further in Q1 to $24.8bn, which would
be a new record high. The goods trade surplus narrowed
in every quarter of 2025, and we expect another decline in

Q1, driven by weaker commodity export earnings and higher
imports of data processing equipment. This may be partly
offset by an improvement in the services trade balance, but
the primary income deficit is also likely to widen, adding to the
deterioration in the current account as higher interest rates in
Australia lift returns on domestic assets held by foreigners.

### Page 9

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
9
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUS: Apr Goods Trade Balance ($bn)
Jun 4 Last: –1.8, Westpac f/c: 2.6
Mkt f/c: 1.6, Range: -2.5 to 3.0
In March, an unexpected 14.1%mth surge in imports and a
2.7%mth decline in exports saw the headline monthly goods
trade balance record its first deficit (–$1.8bn) since late 2017.

We expect a recovery in April, with the balance returning to
a surplus of $2.6bn. Major commodity exports look to have
increased notably after three consecutive monthly declines,
pointing to a solid lift in export volumes. With gold prices
having moved lower over the month, gold export values are
likely to decline. Import flows pose the bigger question. The
outlook depends largely on ADP imports linked to data-centre
investment. This category effectively tripled in March, and while

we expect at least some pullback in April, uncertainty around its
path over the coming months and quarters is extremely high.
NZ: Apr Building Consents (%mth)
Jun 3, Last: –1.3, Westpac f/c: –5.0
We’re forecasting a modest 5% dip in building consents in
April. That’s related to an expected easing in apartment
consents after they took a step higher last month (apartment
consents tend to be issued in batches, and can be lumpy on
a month-to-month basis). Looking at the longer-term trend,

residential consent issuance has taken a step higher over the
past year. That’s encouraging news for the building sector.
However, the softening economic outlook and increased
economic uncertainty cast doubt on how long that firmness
will be sustained. Those headwinds are also expected to be a
drag on the amount of non-residential work that’s planned.
AUS: Q1 GDP
Jun 3, Last: 0.8, Westpac f/c: 0.5
Market f/c: 0.5, Range: 0.2 to 0.8
Growth likely moderated in Q1 2026, with the economy

expanding 0.5% in Q1, down from 0.8%qtr in Q4 2025.
Significant headwinds from the conflict in the Middle East will
only partly be reflected in this quarter’s Accounts. We expect
these impacts to intensify in Q2 2026, with the possibility of a
quarterly contraction.
The big story in this quarter’s Accounts will instead be data
centres. The Private capex survey showed investment in data
centres almost doubled in Q1, with expectations pointing to
a further acceleration in FY2027. Some of this will be ‘leaked’

out via higher imports, but it will still provide a significant
support to activity in the Australian economy.
For more, see our full preview here.

### Page 10

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
10
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
NZ: Q1 Building Work Put in Place (%qtr)
Jun 4, Last: –3.1, Westpac f/c: 1.0
We’re expecting a flattening off in building activity in the 
March quarter. However, trends remain mixed across sectors. 
Residential construction has found a base over the past 
year, and with an uptick in the number of new projects being 
consented, we expect a moderate 1.5% gain in the March 
quarter. There’s more uncertainty around non-residential 
building, which has been trending lower for several years now 
in response to softness in economic conditions and ongoing 
economic uncertainty. After last quarter’s sharp 5% drop, 
we’ve assumed a modest 0.5% bounce. Nevertheless, the 
trend remains downwards. 
US: May employment report
Jun 5, payrolls Last: 115k, Mkt f/c: 93k, WBC f/c: 85k 
Jun 5, U/E rate, Last: 4.3%, Mkt f/c: 4.3%, WBC f/c: 4.3%

Nonfarm payrolls rose 115k in April, keeping the 3-month 
average consistent with balance between labour demand 
and supply. The household survey kept downside risks in the 
picture, however, the unemployment rate unchanged at 4.3% 
as the participation rate edged down. 
In June, another robust gain is expected for payrolls, circa 85k. 
In coming quarters though, labour demand is likely to diverge 
across sectors given weakness in consumption and housing 
but strength in tech-related investment and activity.
Wages growth is likely to continue moderating in aggregate, 
limiting upside for demand-driven inflationary pressures.

### Page 11

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
11
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOR THE WEEK AHEAD
What to watch
For Data/Event Unit Last
Market
f/c
Westpac
f/c Risk/Comment
Mon 01
Aus May Cotality Home Value Index %mth 0.2 – –0.1 The daily measure is pointing to a slight dip for the month.
May MI Inflation Gauge %ann 4.3 – – Has seen a steady rise since late last year.

May ANZ–Indeed Job Ads %mth –0.8 – – Will offer insight into the state of labour demand.
NZ King's Birthday – – – – Markets closed.
Chn May RatingDog Manufacturing PMI index 52.2 51.3 – Posted an unexpectedly resilient result in April.
Eur Apr Unemployment Rate % 6.2 6.2 – Remained low and stable heading into the latest energy shock.
US May ISM Manufacturing index 52.7 53.2 – Strong demand set to support the index.
World May S&P Global Manufacturing PMI index – – – Final estimate for Japan, Europe, UK and US.

Tue 02
Aus RBA Board Member Speech – – – – Ian Harper speaking at CEDA, 10:30am AEST.
Q1 Current Account Balance $bn –21.1 –23.5 –24.8 Falling goods trade balance will drive an increase in deficit.
Q1 Net Exports Contribution ppt –0.1 –0.6 –0.6 A surge in data processing equipment imports.
Q1 Company Profits %qtr 5.8 0 0.5 Mining profits expected to fall on the back of weaker exports.
Q1 Inventories %qtr –0.1 0.1 –0.1 Imports and demand balance suggest a rundown.

Apr Dwelling Approvals %mth –10.5 –1.5 –1.5 Residual noise around high rise approvals.
Eur May HICP Inflation %ann 3.0 3.3 – Will be closely watched by the ECB as a June hike is debated.
UK BoE Speak – – – – Governor Bailey appearing before House of Lords.
US Apr JOLTS Job Openings 000s 6866 6890 – Has seen minor falls in recent months, though remains stable.
Fedspeak – – – – FOMC members Kashkari and  Hammack scheduled to speak.
Wed 03
Aus Q1 GDP %qtr 0.8 0.5 0.5 The big story in Q1 Accounts will be data centres.

NZ Q1 Terms Of Trade index 3.7 –1.0 –3.5 Weaker dairy prices in late 2025 flowing through.
Apr Building Permits %mth –1.3 – –5.0 Trend still firm for now, but expected to soften.
Chn May RatingDog Services PMI index 52.6 52.2 – Competitiveness concerns driving providers to reduce charges.
Eur Apr PPI %ann 2.1 – – Saw a sharp increase post the US–Iran conflict.
US Apr Factory Orders %mth 1.5 4.3 – Recent strength driven by capital goods.
May ISM Services index 53.6 53.7 – Has cooled in recent months while remaining elevated.

Jun Federal Reserve’s Beige Book – – – – Update on economic conditions across the regions.
World May S&P Global Services PMI index – – – Final estimate for Japan, Europe, UK and US.
Thu 04
Aus Apr Goods Trade Balance $bn –1.8 1.6 2.6 Return back to a surplus expected.
RBA Governor Bullock – – – – Senate testimony with Assist’ Governor Kent, 3:00pm AEST.
NZ Q1 Volume of Building Work %qtr –3.1 1.5 1.0 Res stabilising. Non–res weak but could see a small bounce.

May ANZ Commodity Prices %mth –0.8 – 0.5 Aluminium up strongly, other prices mixed.
Eur Apr Retail Sales %mth –0.1 – – Remains low with consumer confidence having taken a hit.
US Initial Jobless Claims 000s 215 – – Have been relatively stable.
Fedspeak – – – – FOMC member Daly.
Fri 05
Aus RBA Deputy Governor Hauser – – – – Fireside chat at Sky News Economic Summit, 2:35pm AEST.
Jpn Apr Household Spending %ann –2.9 – – Consumption remains weak despite continued wages growth.

Eur Q1 GDP %qtr 0.1 0.1 – Final estimate.
US May Nonfarm Payrolls 000s 115 93 85 Growth likely to continue at a solid pace.
May Average Hourly Earnings %mth 0.2 0.3 – Inflation likely to challenge any real earning growth.
May Unemployment Rate % 4.3 4.3 4.3 Has remained stable, although masked by falling participation.

### Page 12

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
12
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
LOOKING FURTHER AHEAD
Interest rate forecasts
Australia Latest (29 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Cash 4.35 4.35 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.60 4.35
90 Day BBSW 4.46 4.55 4.90 4.90 4.95 4.95 4.95 4.80 4.55 4.30

3 Year Swap 4.47 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
3 Year Bond 4.47 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
10 Year Bond 4.83 5.00 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.00 4.95 4.90 4.90
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 39 65 65 60 55 50 40 30 20 15
United States
Fed Funds 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625
US 10 Year Bond 4.44 4.35 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.60 4.65 4.70 4.75
New Zealand
Cash 2.25 2.25 2.50 3.00 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.25 4.25

90 Day Bill 2.63 2.50 2.95 3.40 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.45 4.45 4.45
2 Year Swap 3.57 3.75 4.05 4.30 4.40 4.40 4.40 4.35 4.30 4.25
10 Year Bond 4.71 4.85 4.95 5.00 5.05 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 27 50 55 55 55 55 50 45 40 35
Exchange rate forecasts
Latest (29 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar-28 Jun-28
AUD/USD 0.7165 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.73
NZD/USD 0.5961 0.59 0.59 0.62 0.64 0.66 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67

USD/JPY 159.30 157 156 154 152 150 148 146 144 142
EUR/USD 1.1642 1.18 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.22
GBP/USD 1.3440 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.41
USD/CNY 6.7705 6.80 6.75 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35
AUD/NZD 1.2020 1.22 1.22 1.18 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.10
Australian economic forecasts
2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
% change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
GDP %qtr 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 – – – –

%yr end 2.1 2.6 2.6 1.9 1.6 1.0 0.9 1.1 2.6 1.0 1.6 2.8
Unemployment rate % * 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.4 4.6 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.3 4.9 4.9 4.5
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 – – – –
%yr end 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.2 3.0 3.4
Headline CPI %qtr 1.3 0.6 1.4 1.4 1.6 0.5 0.6 0.6 – – – –
%yr end 3.2 3.6 4.1 4.8 5.0 4.9 4.2 3.4 3.6 4.9 2.6 2.2
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr 1.0 0.9 0.8 1.0 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 – – – –
%yr end 3.0 3.4 3.4 3.8 3.9 4.0 4.0 3.7 3.4 4.0 3.0 2.4

* Quarter–average.
Economic & financial forecasts
New Zealand economic forecasts
2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
% Change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
GDP %qtr 0.9 f0.2 0.8 –0.3 0.4 0.6 1.1 0.6 – – – –
Annual avg change –0.6 0.2 0.6 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.6 1.8 0.2 1.3 2.7 3.4
Unemployment rate % 5.3 5.4 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 5.5 5.3 5.4 5.6 4.9 4.4
CPI %qtr 1.0 0.6 0.9 1.8 1.2 0.4 0.5 0.0 – – – –
Annual change 3.0 3.1 3.1 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.0 2.1 3.1 4.4 1.6 2.1

### Page 14

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

### Page 15

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

---
## Document 170: BRICS外相会議､中東情勢を巡る｢溝｣で共同声明の採択見送り ～イランとUAEの対立が先鋭化､｢全会一致｣を前提とする意思決定の難しさが露に～

Source PDF: all report pdf/BRICS外相会議､中東情勢を巡る｢溝｣で共同声明の採択見送り ～イランとUAEの対立が先鋭化､｢全会一致｣を前提とする意思決定の難しさが露に～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-05-19
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

World Trends

2026 年 5 月 19 日

1/3 
BRICS 外相会議､中東情勢を巡る｢溝｣で共同声明の採択見送り 
～イランと UAE の対立が先鋭化､｢全会一致｣を前提とする意思決定の難しさが露に～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（要旨） 
○ 期待外れの内容に終わった米中首脳会談の裏で開催されたＢＲＩＣＳ外相会議では、中東情
勢を巡る加盟国間の対立が鮮明となった。イランはイスラエルと米国による軍事行動を非難
し、ＢＲＩＣＳにも同調を求めたが、対立するＵＡＥはこれに強く反発し、双方の溝が露呈
した。ＢＲＩＣＳは合意形成に当たって全会一致を原則としているため、共同声明の取りま
とめは難航、議長国インドが公表した成果文書でも加盟国間の見解の相違が明記された。 
○ パレスチナ問題を巡っても加盟国間の温度差が浮き彫りとなった。特に、ＵＡＥはイスラエ
ルとの関係を深めており、一部の文言に留保を付けたとされる。こうした動きは、加盟国拡
大によってＢＲＩＣＳの存在感が高まる一方、利害対立の拡大によって合意形成が難しくな
るという構造的課題を示している。今後も加盟拡大の動きが続くと見込まれるが、多様な思
惑を抱える国々を束ねる難しさは増しており、ＢＲＩＣＳではこれまでの「求心力」に代わ
って「遠心力」が強まる可能性も意識される。

【米中首脳会談の「ウラ」で開催されたＢＲＩＣＳ外相会議】 
インドの首都ニューデリーにおいて、 米中首脳会談と同じ５月 14 日から15 日にかけてＢＲＩＣ
Ｓ外相会議が開催された。 ＢＲＩＣＳは、原加盟４ヶ国 （ブラジル （Ｂ） 、 ロシア （Ｒ） 、 インド （Ｉ） 、
中国（Ｃ） ）の集まりとして発足し、2011 年に南アフリカ（Ｓ）が加わった後は長らく５ヶ国の枠
組みであった。その後、2023 年の首脳会議で６ヶ国の新規加盟で合意し、翌 24 年１月にそのうち
エジプト、イラン、エチオピア、ＵＡＥ（アラブ首長国連邦）が正式に加盟した。さらに、2024 年
の首脳会議で 13 ヶ国を将来的な加盟を見据えたパートナー国としたほか、そのうちインドネシア
が翌 25 年１月に正式に加盟したため、現時点では計10 ヶ国の枠組みとなっている。ここ数年、世
界では欧米と中ロによる分断の動きが広がるなか、中ロはＢＲＩＣＳを自らの勢力を拡大させる
「舞台装置」に用いてきた。一方、新興国のなかには欧米などの外交姿勢に対する反発が高ま り、
結果的にＢＲＩＣＳがその「受け皿」として存在感や求心力を高める流れが加速している。 
今回の外相会議は、 中東情勢の当事国であるイランのアラグチ外相が出席する意向が伝えられた
ため、その行方についてＢＲＩＣＳが何らかの姿勢を示すかが注目された。また、同日に米中首脳

### Page 2

2/3 
会談が開催されたため（注１）、 中国の王毅共産党中央政治局委員・ 外相は出席できず、駐インド大
使の徐飛洪氏が代理出席した。これを受けて、議長国であるインドとしては、ＢＲＩＣＳ内で圧倒
的な存在感を示す中国が不在のあいだに、自らが主導する形でなんらかの「成果」を打ち出すこと
を目指した可能性があるものの、そのハードルは極めて高かったとみられる。 ４月に外相会議の前
段階として開催された高官会議では、中東情勢を巡って対立するイランとＵＡＥが互いを非難し、
インドが取りまとめた議長声明では中東情勢に関する直接的な言及が盛り込まれなかった経緯が
ある。

【中東情勢を巡って加盟国の意見対立が顕在化、求心力の流れに変化が生まれるか】 
外相会議では、 イランのアラグチ外相が、 イスラエルと米国による同国への軍事行動を違法な侵
略行為と指摘したうえで、 ＢＲＩＣＳとして両国による国際法違反を非難するよう要求する姿勢を
示した。そのうえで、同氏は一連の軍事行動を「違法な拡張主義と好戦行為」として米国を批判す
るとともに、イランはあらゆる手段を用いて自国を守る用意がある一方、 外交への道は開かれてい
ると述べるなど、米国との協議に応じる考えをみせた。ただし、前述したように中東情勢を巡って
イランとＵＡＥが対立しており、 アラグチ氏は名指しこそ避けたものの、イスラエルと米国による
軍事行動に直接関与するとともに、 軍事行動が開始された際に非難声明も出さなかったと述べるな
ど、ＵＡＥの対応を糾弾する動きをみせたとされる。 
一方、 イランは周辺国にある米軍基地や関連施設などを標的とした報復攻撃を行ったほか、 その
標的にはＵＡＥも含まれた。ＵＡＥはイランの主張を全面的に否定したうえで、 イランによるＵＡ
Ｅへの攻撃を正当化する試みであるとして非難したほか、 いかなる脅威や敵対行為に対しても主権
的、法的、外交的、軍事的権利を完全に留保すると表明するなど、真っ向から対立した。中東情勢
の緊迫化が長期化、 事態の見通しが立たない状況が続くなか、両国が同じテーブルに着くことの意
義は小さくないものの、ＢＲＩＣＳの意思決定は全会一致（コンセンサス）を前提としていること
から、共同声明の採択に向けた合意形成は困難との見方が強まった。 
こうしたなか、議長国であるインドが公表した共同声明と成果文書において「西アジア・中東地
域の情勢に関して、 一部の加盟国の間で見解の相違があった」 とイランとＵＡＥの間の立場の違い
を浮き彫りにする文言が付された。そのうえで、加盟国は事態の早期解決の必要性や、対話と外交
の価値から主権や領土保全の尊重に至る多岐にわたるテーマについて、 それぞれの立場を表明し、
多様な見解を共有したことを明らかにした。 その一方、 多くの加盟国がイランによるホルムズ海峡
の事実上の封鎖の影響を受けるなか、 国際法の遵守のほか、 国際水域での安全で妨害のない海上輸
送の確保、 民間インフラと人命の保護の重要性なども協議の焦点になったとするなど、 米中首脳会
談と並び、この問題も注目を集めた模様である。とはいえ、あくまで各国の立場の違いが明示され
るだけにとどまるなど、意思決定の難しさを浮き彫りにしている。

注１ ５月18 日付レポート「期待外れに終わった米中首脳会談､｢時間軸｣が両者の認識の違いに」 
  （https://www.dlri.co.jp/report/macro/607224.html）

### Page 3

経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。
3/3
また、 パレスチナ問題に関連して、 ガザ地区が占領下のパレスチナ領土の不可分の一部であるこ
とを再確認したうえで、 パレスチナ自治政府の下でヨルダン川西岸地域とガザ地区を統合すること
の重要性を指摘し、 パレスチナ人の自決権や独立したパレスチナ国家の権利を再確認する方針を示
した。しかし、これについては具体的な国名こそ挙げていないものの、ある加盟国がガザ地区に関
する項目の一部に保留条件を付けたとの指摘もなされた。背景には、2020 年のアブラハム合意によ
る国交正常化を経てＵＡＥはイスラエルとの関係を急速に緊密化させており、 貿易など経済面での
結びつきのみならず、 ともにイランを共通の脅威と見なすなかで軍事連携や防衛協力を深化させて

いることも影響している。ＵＡＥは５月１日付でＯＰＥＣ（石油輸出国機構）から脱退し ており、
その理由としてサウジアラビアとの路線対立が挙げられるとともに、 イランによる報復攻撃に対し
て他の産油国が明確な批判を示さなかったことへの苛立ちも影響したとの見方もある。
ＢＲＩＣＳが加盟国の拡大に動いた際、 加盟国の拡大を受けてＢＲＩＣＳに対する注目度が高ま
るとともに、 存在感も向上することが期待される一方、 全会一致を前提とする合意形成に当たって
そのハードルが高まることが懸念された。 足元の状況はＢＲＩＣＳが早くもそうした問題に直面し
ていることを意味しており、先行きも同様の局面に陥る可能性は高い。前述したように、ＢＲＩＣ
Ｓには将来的な正式加盟を前提とするパートナー国制度が設けられており、 ４月にはマレーシアが
加盟に意欲を示した。各国の思惑が多岐にわたるなか、 様々な国がひとつのテーブルに着いて協議
を行うことの意義は少なくないものの、 これまでの求心力から一転して遠心力が働く可能性にも注

意が必要と考えられる。
以 上

---
## Document 238: Lợi suất trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ (2026-05-18)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Lợi suất trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ (2026-05-18).pdf
Report source: KBSV (Thematic)
Date: 2026-05-18
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1

F I R S T  T O  M A R K E T

Lợi suất trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ 
Dự báo và đánh giá tác động lên tình hình trong nước

Lợi suất trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ giữa tháng 5 tăng mạnh 
— Trong tuần qua (11-15/5/2026), thị trường trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ chứng kiến áp lực bán 
tháo, đẩy lợi suất các kỳ hạn tăng cao. Cụ thể, lợi suất kỳ hạn 10 năm dao động quanh 
mức 4.4 – 4.6%, tiệm cận với vùng đỉnh gần nhất thiết lập hồi đầu năm 2025. Kỳ hạn 30 
năm cũng cho thấy xu hướng tăng tương tự khi lợi suất tại kỳ hạn này trong hầu hết các 
phiên giao dịch tuần trước đóng cửa trên ngưỡng 5% (có lúc chạm mốc 5.13%, đánh 
dấu đỉnh mới kể từ tháng 7/2007). Khép lại tuần giao dịch, mặt bằng lợi suất ở hầu hết 
các kỳ hạn từ 2-30 năm ghi nhận mức tăng trung bình khoảng 20bps. 
— Nguyên nhân đến từ: 
▪ Dữ liệu dự báo lạm phát nóng lên: Báo cáo giá bán buôn tháng 4 của Mỹ (công bố 
ngày 13/5/2026) cho thấy chỉ số PPI (chỉ số giá sản xuất) đã tăng 6% so với cùng kỳ 
2025 (mức tăng cao nhất kể từ 2022), dấy lên lo ngại về áp lực tăng giá lan rộng từ 
khâu sản xuất sang nền kinh tế. Trong bối cảnh lo sợ lạm phát, nhà đầu tư có xu 
hướng yêu cầu mức lợi suất cao hơn để bù đắp rủi ro suy giảm sức mua của dòng 
tiền trong tương lai, qua đó đẩy lợi suất trái phiếu tăng lên. 
▪ Lo ngại giá năng lượng tiếp tục neo cao: Việc giá năng lượng liên tục duy trì trên 
100USD/thùng trong khi eo biển Hormuz vẫn đang bị phong tỏa cũng củng cố kỳ 
vọng về lạm phát dai dẳng. 
▪ Thâm hụt ngân sách tiếp diễn: Văn phòng Ngân sách Quốc hội Mỹ dự báo thâm hụt 
cả năm 2026 đạt khoảng 1.9 nghìn tỷ USD, tương đương 5.8% GDP (cao hơn mức 
trung bình 50 năm qua là 3.8%). Đồng thời, trong bối cảnh nợ công Mỹ được dự báo 
sẽ tăng lên 120% GDP vào năm 2036 (vượt đỉnh từng ghi nhận được sau Thế chiến 
II), Mỹ buộc phải tăng phát hành trái phiếu để tài trợ cho chi tiêu công và tái cấp 
vốn nợ đáo hạn. Áp lực nguồn cung trái phiếu kho bạc tăng mạnh khiến thị trường 
yêu cầu mức lợi suất cao hơn để hấp thụ lượng phát hành mới. 
▪ Thông điệp mang tính diều hâu về lãi suất điều hành: Một số quan chức Fed trong 
tuần này nhấn mạnh kiểm soát lạm phát vẫn là ưu tiên hàng đầu, đồng thời không 
loại trừ khả năng tiếp tục tăng lãi suất nếu áp lực giá gia tăng. Điều này khiến thị 
trường điều chỉnh giảm kỳ vọng Fed nới lỏng chính sách, qua đó giữ lợi suất trái 
phiếu kho bạc Mỹ, đặc biệt ở nhóm kỳ hạn ngắn và trung hạn, duy trì ở mức cao.

Dự báo diễn biến lợi suất trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ  
— Chúng tôi đánh giá lợi suất trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ sẽ tiếp tục duy trì ở vùng cao trong 
quý 2 trước khi hạ nhiệt trong 2H2026, dựa trên kịch bản cơ sở của chúng tôi giả định 
căng thẳng Mỹ–Iran dần hạ nhiệt từ nửa sau của quý 2, qua đó giảm đáng kể áp lực lên 
lạm phát của Mỹ trong giai đoạn cuối năm. Tuy nhiên, đà giảm của lợi suất bị hạn chế 
bởi áp lực phát hành trái phiếu quy mô lớn, cùng với việc Fed nhiều khả năng vẫn thận 
trọng đối với chính sách tiền tệ.

Đánh giá tác động lên tình hình vĩ mô Việt Nam 
— Việc lợi suất trái phiếu Mỹ duy trì ở mức cao đang tạo ra những thách thức nhất định 
cho kinh tế Việt Nam qua hai kênh chính:

### Page 2

2

▪ Áp lực tỷ giá gia tăng do: i) tài sản bằng USD trở nên hấp dẫn khiến nhu cầu nắm 
giữ USD gia tăng, làm chỉ số DXY thường có xu hướng mạnh lên; ii) chênh lệch 
dương lãi suất VND-USD có xu hướng thu hẹp khiến việc nắm giữ VND phần nào trở 
nên kém hấp dẫn hơn.   
▪ Tăng chi phí huy động cho các doanh nghiệp có nhu cầu huy động vốn nước ngoài 
bằng đồng ngoại tệ, đặc biệt các doanh nghiệp ngân hàng, chứng khoán, bất động 
sản sử dụng đòn bẩy tài chính cao. 
— Dù vậy, chúng tôi cho rằng tác động tổng thể lên tình hình vĩ mô Việt Nam hiện tại là 
chưa đáng ngại trong bối cảnh: (1) tỷ giá vẫn được duy trì ổn định từ đầu năm đến nay 
nhờ mặt bằng lãi suất trong nước tăng trong gần một năm trở lại đây; (2) dòng vốn 
đầu tư FDI tích cực; và (3) khả năng điều tiết linh hoạt của NHNN. Với kỳ vọng lợi suất 
trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ sẽ hạ nhiệt trong 2H2026, chúng tôi vẫn giữ nguyên dự báo 2026 
cho tỷ giá (tăng 2.5-3% so với cuối 2025) và lãi suất (giảm 0.5-1% so với cuối tháng 
4/2026) như đã đề cập trong báo cáo Triển vọng kinh tế Việt Nam 2Q2026.

Biểu đồ 1. Lợi suất trái phiếu kho bạc Mỹ các kỳ hạn  Biểu đồ 2. Chỉ số PPI và CPI (YoY) của Mỹ

Nguồn: Bloomberg, KBSV  Nguồn: Bloomberg, KBSV

Biểu đồ 3. Nợ công Mỹ (% GDP)  Biểu đồ 4. Thâm hụt ngân sách Mỹ

Nguồn: Statista, CBO, KBSV  Nguồn: FRED, CBO, KBSV

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
03/15 03/16 03/17 03/18 03/19 03/20 03/21 03/22 03/23 03/24 03/25 03/26
(%)
2Y 5Y 10Y 30Y
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
04/20
08/20
12/20
04/21
08/21
12/21
04/22
08/22
12/22
04/23
08/23
12/23
04/24
08/24
12/24
04/25
08/25
12/25
04/26
(%) PPI CPI
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026F
2027F
2028F
2029F
2030F
2031F
2032F
2033F
2034F
2035F
2036F
(%)
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026F
2027F
2028F
2029F
2030F
2031F
2032F
2033F
2034F
2035F
2036F
(%)(tỷ USD)
Giá trị % GDP

### Page 3

Hệ thống khuyến nghị

Hệ thống khuyến nghị đầu tư cổ phiếu 
(Dựa trên kỳ vọng tăng giá trong 6 tháng tới)  Ý kiến trong báo cáo này phản ánh đánh giá chuyên môn của (các) chuyên viên 
phân tích kể từ ngày phát hành và dựa trên thông tin, dữ liệu thu được từ các 
nguồn mà KBSV cho là đáng tin cậy. KBSV không tuyên bố rằng thông tin, dữ liệu là 
chính xác hoặc đầy đủ và các quan điểm được trình bày trong báo cáo này có thể 
được thay đổi mà không cần báo trước. Khách hàng nên độc lập cân nhắc hoàn 
cảnh, mục tiêu cụ thể của riêng mình và tự chịu trách nhiệm về các quyết định đầu 
tư của mình. Chúng tôi sẽ không có trách nhiệm đối với các khoản đầu tư hoặc kết 
quả của chúng. Những tài liệu này là bản quyền của KBSV và không được sao chép, 
phân phối lại hoặc sửa đổi mà không có sự đồng ý trước bằng văn bản của KBSV. 
Nhận xét và quan điểm trong báo cáo này có tính chất chung, chỉ nhằm mục đích 
tham khảo và không được phép sử dụng cho bất kỳ mục đích nào khác. 
Mua:  
+15% hoặc cao hơn 
Trung lập:  
trong khoảng +15% và -15% 
Bán:  
-15% hoặc thấp hơn

Hệ thống khuyến nghị đầu tư ngành 
(Dựa trên đánh giá triển vọng trong 6 tháng tới)  
Tích cực: 
Vượt trội hơn thị trường 
Trung lập: 
Phù hợp thị trường 
Tiêu cực: 
Kém hơn thị trường

CTCP CHỨNG KHOÁN KB VIỆT NAM (KBSV)

Trụ sở chính: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 16&17, Tháp 2, Tòa nhà Capital Place, số 29 Liễu Giai, Phường Ngọc Hà, TP Hà Nội 
Điện thoại: (+84) 24 7303 5333 - Fax: (+84) 24 3776 5928 
Chi nhánh Hà Nội: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 1&2, Tòa nhà Văn phòng, số 5 Điện Biên Phủ, Phường Ba Đình, TP Hà Nội 
Điện thoại: (+84) 24 7305 3335 - Fax: (+84) 24 3822 3131 
Chi nhánh Hồ Chí Minh: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 21, Tòa nhà Vietinbank, số 93 - 95 Hàm Nghi, Phường Sài Gòn, TP Hồ Chí Minh 
Điện thoại: (+84) 28 7303 5333 - Fax: (+84) 28 3914 1969 
Chi nhánh Sài Gòn: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 1, Saigon Trade Center, số 37 Tôn Đức Thắng, Phường Sài Gòn, TP Hồ Chí Minh 
Điện thoại: (+84) 28 7306 3338 - Fax: (+84) 28 3910 1611

LIÊN HỆ 
Hotline: 1900 1711 
Email: info@kbsec.com.vn 
Website: www.kbsec.com.vn

---
## Document 271: The Future of American Strategy_ Weaponizing Interdependence (2026-05-26)

Source PDF: all report pdf/The Future of American Strategy_ Weaponizing Interdependence (2026-05-26).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

EXPERT TAKE FOLLOW THE MONEY
The Future of American Strategy: WeaponizingInterdependence
A short essay, originally published by CFR’s Future of American Strategy Initiative, on
how power in the international economic system has evolved and lessons from a
year when Trump weaponized access to U.S. demand while Xi weaponized access to
Chinese supply.
PUBLISHED
May 26, 2026 1:43 p.m.
Articles Follow the Money Share
Brad W. Setser CFR EXPERT
Whitney Shepardson Senior Fellow

C hina’s stunning rise, and its global lead in manufacturing,
have raised questions about both the nature of economic
power and the United States’ continued economic
preeminence. In one sense, there is not much reason for
debate: the U.S. share of global output has been remarkably
constant over the last forty years. C hina’s rise, though
extraordinary, has statistically come at the expense of the
other Group of Seven (G7) countries. And U.S. financial

markets, or at least its equity market, account for a larger
share of any global stock index than at any point in the last
fifty years.
Log In
Regions Topics Research Experts Events The Future of American Strategy

### Page 2

But that misses enormous changes in how sources of
economic leverage are conceived and defined. Ten years ago,
conventional wisdom held that economic power flowed from
creating rules and influencing global institutions. The central
argument, at least in Washington, was that the United States
could leverage its 20 percent share of the world economy to
write nearly 100 percent of global economic rules and
simultaneously maintain controlling stakes in the key

international financial institutions.
But C hina had no intention of playing by rules it did not
write. Beijing, therefore, ignored the rules and played by its
own, achieving significant industrial and technological
successes. An outstanding example is its creation of a world-
leading electric vehicle industry, shielded by a tariff wall and
nourished by large state subsidies. Even in the United States,
political support for many of the established rules has been

weakened by the sense that they were written primarily to
benefit a narrow slice of the U.S. population.
The old thesis of sources of economic power has lost
intellectual dominance. Now, economic power is instead
largely conceptualized through the logic of weaponized
interdependence. There have been lively debates over when
interdependence becomes dependence, when dependence
needs to be reduced or simply managed, and whether states
can deter other states from weaponizing their economic

chokepoints.
As those debates played out, President Donald Trump started
his second term by weaponizing access to the U.S. consumer
market. Traditional trade deals—where both parties reduced
barriers—were shunned, and the constraints of legacy trade
agreements were cast aside. The goal of Trump’s second-term
tariffs was not to negotiate new global rules for trade, but to
compel U.S. trading partners to accept unequal terms. The
United States raised tariffs, and other countries agreed, albeit

reluctantly, not only to refrain from raising their own tariffs in
retaliation but also to reduce their own tariffs. The European
Union, though, argues it did so because of its dependence on

### Page 3

the United States for security, rather than its dependence on
the U.S. market.
The most important development of 2025, though, was that
C hina did not accept a deal akin to the one the United States
hashed out with the EU in Turnberry, Scotland, where the
Trump administration forced Europe to accept high tariffs in
exchange for access to the U.S. market. Beijing pushed back
forcefully against Washington’s demands and ultimately was
able to convince the administration both to roll back its tariffs

and to narrow certain proposed export restrictions. C hina did
so by walling off its market to U.S. goods, counting on
pressure from the farm states that rely on the C hinese export
market to moderate U.S. demands (its playbook from Trump’s
first term). It also weaponized its dominance of the supply
chains needed to produce rare earths and other critical
minerals, laying out comprehensive export controls that
threatened to shut down the U.S. auto industry and

complicate military production. This C hinese action
established a precedent that in many ways is more important
than the Trump administration’s decision to disregard the
United States’ W TO tariff commitments and raise tariffs to
levels not seen since the 1930s.
It is worth noting that C hina’s response to U.S. tariff threats
came through its control of key supply chains, not through its
weaponizing of U.S. bond holdings. That fact alone suggests

that transforming finance into leverage to achieve strategic
goals is harder than often assumed. Further evidence can be
seen in the great difficulty that C hina has had in converting
its Belt and Road lending into enduring influence. Ecuador,
for example, took a great deal of Belt and Road money to
build hydroelectric dams without ending up permanently in
C hina’s orbit. And when Zambia defaulted on loans from
C hina’s Export-Import Bank and other state banks, it ended

up reducing C hina’s leverage over the country, rather than
increasing it.
The relative weakness of finance as leverage could also be
seen following the financial sanctions that G7 countries
imposed on Russia after its 2022 invasion of Ukraine. Even

### Page 4

though those were among the strongest possible financial
sanctions, they did not hinder Moscow’s ability to fight.
Rather, its aggression against Ukraine continues four years
after its reserves were frozen and its access to new
international lending entirely cut off.
The reality is that most countries do not depend on either
U.S. financial markets or the U.S. government for funding.
Instead, the global flow of capital is overwhelmingly into the
United States, not from the United States to the rest of the

world. Wall Street’s core work is mobilizing global funds to
invest in the U.S. economy, not mobilizing U.S. funds to
invest globally. C ountries that fund the United States aren’t
necessarily going to be deterred by the prospect that they
cannot raise funds in the United States, and the United
States has been less willing to impose sanctions limiting new
inflows into the U.S. bond market than to try to raise a toll
for access to the U.S. consumer market.

One reason Russia survived heavy Western sanctions is that it
did not need access to either its accumulated foreign currency
reserves or new U.S. or European financing to prosecute its
war against Ukraine. So long as there were buyers for Russian
oil exports, the Kremlin would be fine. C hina is in a similar
position; its industrial, technological, and strategic goals can
be financed entirely out of the country’s large domestic
savings. Its state banks fund the rest of the world out of

domestic savings, not the other way around.
The United States still has unrivalled influence over the
global economy. But U.S. leverage is not unlimited. The
United States faces a determined rival with many cards of its
own to play. It isn’t in a position to use its economic leverage
to impose any vision of a global economic order on C hina, let
alone use its economic pull to integrate C hina into a strategic
order. Nor have the consequences of a world where the two

leading economic powers have weaponized supply (as C hina
has) and demand (as the United States has) been fully
digested by the rest of the global economy. The old global
economic order is dying; a new one has yet to be born.

### Page 5

From Follow the Money
Creative Commons: Some rights reserved.
This work is licensed under Creative Commons Attribution-
NonCommercial-NoDerivatives 4.0 International (CC BY-NC-ND
4.0) License.
ECONOMICS CHINA
About CFR Membership
Support CFR Fellowships
Careers Newsletters
CFR Education CFR Store
Contact Us Communications and Media Resources
Privacy Policy Terms of Use
More from the Future of American Strategy >>
Americans B eware: Markets C an
B e Out of Sync With Reality

By Robert E. Rubin
May 21, 2026
C FR Sovereign Risk Tracker
May 20, 2026
W hat the Trump-Xi Summit
Means for Southeast
Asia and South Asia
By Joshua Kurlantzick
May 19, 2026

### Page 6

GET CFR’S THE WORLD THIS WEEK
©2026 C ouncil on Foreign Relations
email@example.com Subscribe

---
## Document 275: The long road_ Quantifying Europe's exposure to transport disruption (2026-05-08)

Source PDF: all report pdf/The long road_ Quantifying Europe's exposure to transport disruption (2026-05-08).pdf
Report source: DB Research
Date: 2026-05-08
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

The long road: Quantifying Europe's 
exposure to transport disruption

1 
Authors 
Yacine Rouimi 
Senior Economist

Mark Wall 
Chief Economist

May 8, 2026 
Heightened geopolitical risk in the Middle East has placed European transport 
networks under intense scrutiny, with a particular focus on the supply of jet fuel 
given the high share of the Gulf in the global supply of kerosene.  
For the supply side of the European economy and overall input availability, the 
risk from a shortage of jet fuel is relatively small. The dominant fuel dependency 
for goods production is on diesel and electricity, reflecting the four-fifths share of 
input costs taken by land transport (road and rail).  
The true vulnerability to a shortage of jet fuel lies squarely with the tourism 
sector. Our simulation shows a 10% drop in tourism flows would have a 
moderate impact on the Euro Area, on average (-0.2% of GDP), but a more 
significant impact on countries like Croatia (-1.5%), Greece, and Portugal (-
0.7%).  
Beyond the specific risk to jet fuel, a wider disruption to the global supply of 
transport would expose a more fundamental European vulnerability: the physical 
length of supply chains. To measure this vulnerability, we introduce a “physical 
distance travelled” metric, reflecting how far inputs travel for every industry. It 
reveals two critical points: 
— A clear geographic divide: The economies with the longest supply chains are 
generally located in Southern Europe. Lacking deep integration with Europe’s 
industrial core their value chains are inherently more global and reliant on 
long-distance sourcing. This exposure to transport frictions could create a 
vulnerability for some of the zone’s high-debt member states. These 
countries are also those we previously found to have the highest energy 
import bill sensitivities. 
— A dual "hidden" risk: From a sector perspective, the most-exposed sectors 
besides tourism are capital goods (electronics, air/spacecraft, machinery) 
and materials manufacturing (metals, refineries), whose supply chains 
stretch nearly 5,000 km, on average. Crucially, these are the same value 
chains we previously identified as having high "hidden” energy content, 
indicating a dual vulnerability to both transport shocks and embedded 
energy costs. 
What does this mean for the ECB? Our baseline view is a ‘measured’ tightening 
with 50bp of hikes to 2.50%, the upper end of the range of neutral. With the 
labour market cooling, financial conditions tightening and this threat of fuel 
shortages, the growth outlook is not robust enough to think the ECB hikes much 
beyond 2.50%. The challenge for the ECB could be fragmentation if fuel 
shortages have a differential impact on member states.

### Page 2

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 2

Concerns shifting from energy to transport. Aviation of particular concern. As we 
highlighted in a recent note, Europe’s economic exposure to the Gulf conflict is 
twofold, and is more complex than the singular energy shock of the Russia -
Ukraine war.  Risks of direct shortages in energy and key materials like 
petrochemicals or mineral fuels  are now coupled with a more complex threat: 
second-order disruptions to global value chains.  
Transport disruption is one of the most significant vectors of transmission for 
both these risks. As an input at every stage of production , the transport sector’s 
resilience is once again at the forefront amid reports of looming fuel shortages 
and logistical bottlenecks. In all this, jet fuel is of particular concern, as shown by 
recent statements by the Head of the Int ernational Energy Agency  on April 16 
that Europe has “maybe six weeks of jet fuel left” , and our own calculations that 
the share of Gulf countries as a source for EU imports of kerosene reaches 56%.  
As our transportation sector  specialists explain, the market is already under 
pressure. Jet fuel prices have doubled, and while replacement barrels from the 
US and Africa have helped Europe plug the gap for now, this fragile balance is 
unlikely to survive the summer demand surge. Airlines are already cancelling 
unprofitable flights and  face difficult trade -offs between raising prices and 
eroding consumer confidence. 
In this article , we think about the European economy’s exposure to potential 
global transport disruption – in particular jet fuel – from two complementary 
perspectives. First, from a supply  or production perspective, we look at the role 
of various forms of transport in European supply chains , including air transport, 
while introducing a distance metric reflecting how far European inputs travel and 
are exposed to transport disruptions . Second , from a demand or income 
perspective, we look at the exposure of E uropean economies to tourism and in 
turn tourism’s exposure to air travel.  
How much transport in value chains? 3-5% of inputs, of which little air transport.  
A traditional way to assess transport dependency is to measure its overall share 
in inputs along the value chain.

Figure 1: Cost share of transport services in Euro area 
input purchases, dominated by land. Air is tiny

Figure 2: By physical weight, maritime shipping 
dominates freight transport

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO. The figures include the absorption of all 
transport services at every stage of production, including that required to move inputs 
between two foreign suppliers (ie indirect absorption).

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Eurostat (tran_hv_ms_frmod). The unit used for 
measuring the freight transport shares is the tonne-kilometre (tkm). One tonne-
kilometre represents the movement of one tonne over a distance of one kilometre.

### Page 3

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 3

Our calculations, using a methodology popularized by the OECD , suggest 
transport services account for 3-5% of total input purchases across the Euro area 
(Figure 1), with some notable outliers like Greece at 7%. Among the Big4, the role 
of transport is more pronounced in Italy and France (4.5-5%), less so in Germany 
and Spain (3-4%).  
Land transport constitutes the bulk of this transport cost – approximately four-
fifths. The share of water transport is significantly smaller, except for trade-reliant 
coastal nations like Greece, Malta, and Cyprus. Importantly, air transport 
represents only a minor share overall.  
Implications for fuel usage. The dominance of land transport (i.e., road and rail) in 
the cost structure implies that the most significant fuel availability risk in the 
supply of goods and services comes from disruptions to diesel and electricity, not 
jet fuel. Given air freight's minimal share in both cost s and physical volume of 
freight (as confirmed by both our analysis and Eurostat data  in Figure 2), even a 
severe, un-substitutable 10% shortage of jet fuel may not cause much disruption 
to the flow of inputs and economic production in Europe.  
Tourism: a distinct, service-based vulnerability. The above numbers, focusing on 
freight and input purchases , do not capture  the broader issue of the tourism 
economy: tourism involves moving individuals – not freight – and air transport is 
not counted as a formal input to the hotels, restaurants, and cultural activities that 
constitute the tourism economy (i .e., hospitality, recreation) , but generally as a 
purchase by households.

Figure 3: The high share of long-distance travellers in 
direct foreign purchases (spending by foreign tourists)

Figure 4: Tourism is where the Euro area’s vulnerability 
to jet fuel and air transport becomes significant

Source: Deutsche Bank Research; OECD ICIO.

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO. The simulation focusses on the impact of 
spending by foreign tourists, and does not capture domestic tourism. As such, the 
numbers differ from the estimates of the sector’s footprint published by Eurostat

In Figure 3, we calculate the share of GDP driven by direct purchases by 
foreigners (spending by foreign tourists) . The result, unsurprisingly, is that the 
nations of Southern Europe are much more exposed , on average, but all nations 
in Europe derive income from a demand perspective from far -away visitors. We 
estimate that about three quarters of that spending is made by foreigners having 
travelled more than 2,000 km (50% of the spending by travellers more than 
5,000 km away, often placing them on another continent).

### Page 4

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 4

A simulated 10% drop in global tourism flows reveals a manageable cost for the 
Euro Area , on average (a 0.2% hit to GDP – Figure 4). The impact is more 
pronounced in Croatia (GDP falling 1.5%), and Greece and Portugal (both seeing 
declines of 0.7%). On the  Big4 countries, Spain would be faced with the most 
significant loss (0.4%), while France, Italy (0.2%) and Germany’s (0.1%) exposures 
are more modest.  
An important caveat to bear in mind: in cases of severe disruption of air travel, 
holidaymakers would likely travel more locally, which should reduce the size of a 
shock to the tourism industry. The overall impact will still depend on the size of 
the tourism sector relative to local demand.  
Beyond jet fuel: Measuring exposures to transport friction. The focus on jet fuel, 
while critical for tourism, highlights a greater strategic risk: energy -driven 
transport disruptions may not stop at kerosene. A broader shock to transport 
fuels affecting diesel and maritime fuels would more certainly curtail the physical 
movement of goods. In such a scenario, what matters is not just the cost of 
transport, but a value chain’s fundamental exposure to distance. 
To assess this exposure, we introduce the “ physical distance travelled ” metric. 
This measure goes beyond a simple 'average import distance' to quantify the total 
physical journey embedded in the Euro Area's inputs to production, including 
domestic trade and all transactions that occur before a final good is imported. It 
reveals the true length – and vulnerability – of our supply chains. Deutsche Bank 
clients can access further details including the methodology on our Deutsche 
Bank Research client site. 
Figure 5 illustrates the main input to the calculations . It shows the global 
transactions required to generate €100bn of production of an average 
good/service in the Euro Area, and where this output is directed . Both charts 
contain the same data, with the left-hand one showing how output is broken down 
(domestic consumption vs. exports), while the right -hand one  illustrates the 
complex connections across regions to feed the Euro Area with inputs. The blue 
and red links represent the Euro Area’s indirect exposure.

Figure 5: Picturing the global web of inputs for Euro area production

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO. Note: our distance metric also includes the intra Euro area trade required in the value chain, not displayed in this chart.

### Page 5

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 5

We find a significant reliance on external partners, requiring approximately €10bn 
in output from the Asia -Pacific region alone. The charts also highlight the 
complexity of these value chains: a large portion of the Asian output is transacted 
and transformed internally (the blue segments) before being exported. 
Tourism is clearly at risk, while the capital goods and materials value chains stand 
out on the goods-producing side. Southern Europe is more vulnerable, too.  
The distance metric we calculate is simply the sum of the distances between the 
nodes in Figure 5 in kilometres , weighted by their values (it also includes intra 
euro area trade, not displayed in the chart) . It shows that the longest , and, 
therefore, most transport-exposed, value chains in the Euro Area fall into three 
clear categories:  
• First are tourism services , with most countries deriving a significant 
portion of revenue from travel lers residing more than 5,000 km away  
(Figure 6).  
• Second, Capital goods, where production is globally fragmented.  Here, 
the computer and electronics sector  stands out, with the average input 
traveling nearly 5,000 km, the longest of any European industry, after 
tourism. Other capital goods sectors like aircraft/railway equipment and 
electrical equipment (4,100 km) also exhibit noticeably long supply 
chains. 
• The third category is materials manufacturing. Industries like non-ferrous 
metals (4,800 km), coke/refined petroleum (4,700 km), and iron/steel 
(4,000 km) all rely on sourcing raw materials from distant global locations. 
Notably, these are the same value chains we previously identified as 
having a high "hidden energy"  imported content, indicating a dual 
vulnerability to both energy shocks and transport disruption.

Figure 6: Highest distance dependency for European 
tourism services, capital goods, and materials.

Figure 7: Longer distances in Southern European value 
chains

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, ICIO

In terms of geographies, t he simulations show that several Southern European 
countries have longer -than-average supply chains : a  group including Cyprus, 
Greece, Portugal, and Spain are all positioned at the higher end of the spectrum  
(Figure 7). An average calculated for the nine Southern Euro area economies

### Page 6

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 6

yields a kilometric distance of 3, 490 km, a figure higher than the Euro Area 
average of 3,330 km. For goods producers within this southern bloc, the average 
distance is even longer, at 3,700 km.  
The higher exposure to transport frictions could, therefore, create a vulnerability 
for some of the zone’s high -debt member states  (Figure 8). These countries are 
also those we previously found to have the highest energy import bill sensitivities. 
Italy and Croatia are exceptions to this pattern, showing shorter supply chain 
distances more aligned with the industrial core of the Euro area, like Germany and 
France (3,200-3,300 km).

Figure 8: A vulnerability to transport disruptions for some of the highest-debt 
member States

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, OECD ICIO

What this means for the ECB: Measured tightening…at most 
A negative supply shock pushes prices up and activity down. These opposing 
forces can neutralise the impact on monetary policy (‘look through’). The ECB is 
nervous that the size and persistence of the upside inflation shock might need a 
tightening of monetary policy to ensure that inflation remains anchored at 2% in 
the medium term. However, the downside risks to growth are not irrelevant. The 
more significant the downside risks to growth, the less likely is a large or 
persistent inflation shock. Monetary p olicy needs to carefully weigh the inflation 
effects against the growth effects.  
If Europe suffers from an outright shortage of transport fuels, then growth will 
undoubtedly weaken more than expected (assuming no substitutability of fuels or 
other sources of transport). Shortages could also push transport prices up even 
more, but only if firms believe demand can sustain even sharper price hikes, and 
this cannot be taken for granted – especially when the fiscal response to the crisis 
is limited and financial conditions are tightening.  
In other words, if fuel supply shocks intensify to the point of outright shortages in 
Europe, it is not obvious that monetary policy would have to tighten even more 
than expected. It is even possible that monetary policy tightens less.

### Page 7

8 May 2026 
Europe Blog

Deutsche Bank AG Page 7

Our view is that the downside risks to growth are becoming more significant. One 
reason is the impact of the energy shock on supply chains. As discussed above, 
there are multiple aspects to this shock on supply chains.  
First, we recently wrote about the hidden energy costs  in Europe’s imports, 
particular from Asia, a region where the risk of production disruptions from 
energy shortages is more acute.  
Second, last year , we wrote about the high complexity (and low substitutability) 
of Europe’s imports from Asia  (China in particular) . This increases the risk of an 
Asian shock compromising European supply chains.  
Third, in this note , we offer a complementary perspective by showing the actual 
length (‘ physical distance travelled’) of Europe’s supply chains. The member 
states most at risk of an economic cost from a limited supply of transport fuels 
are those with longer supply chains. Generally speaking, they are also the ones 
with higher levels of public debt. 
The bottom line is  we see the net inflation/growth arguments favouring a 
measured ECB tightening at most. Our baseline is 50bp of hikes to 2.50%, with 
quarter point hikes in June and September. With the labour market cooling, 
financial conditions tightening and a threat of fuel shortages, the growth outlook 
is not robust enough to think the ECB hikes much beyond 2.50%.  The challenge 
for the ECB could be fragmentation if fuel shortages have a differential impact on 
member states.

### Page 8

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
The long road: Quantifying Europe's exposure to transport disruption – May 8, 2026

---
## Document 288: Up against China’s industrial surge, Europe has strengths but is seeking a strategy (2026-05-18)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Up against China’s industrial surge, Europe has strengths but is seeking a strategy (2026-05-18).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-05-18
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

The bank
for a changing
world
3
economic-research.bnpparibas.comEcoWeek 26.20 / 18 May 2026EDITORIAL
UP AGAINST CHINA’S INDUSTRIAL SURGE, EUROPE HAS STRENGTHS BUT IS SEEKING A STRATEGY
1 Security Action for Europe.
China’s rise is undermining major sectors of European industry. However, as the German economy illustrates most clear-
ly, Europe is shifting, driven by investment cycles in defence, electrification and artificial intelligence. It is redirecting its

exports and managing to maintain strong positions, particularly in high value-added services, where exports to China are
trending upwards. Yet this repositioning remains fragile and could be hampered by the economic costs of the conflict in
the Middle East. To consolidate its positions, Europe must accelerate the unification of its internal market and do more to
strengthen its industrial policy. This is the aim of the ‘One Europe, One Market’ agenda.

GERMANY IS ONCE AGAIN BECOMING A DRIVING FORCE
The German economy is gradually moving away from its traditional
model. Historically reliant on the automotive and chemical indus -
tries – two sectors facing particularly fierce competition from China –
it is now shifting its focus towards defence, aerospace, and electronic
and electrical equipment. This is confirmed by the figures for new in -
dustrial orders (see Chart 1). Now the second-largest contributor to

NATO’s budget, Germany is thereby embarking on a historic shift that
is already bearing fruit.
In addition, by significantly increasing its defence spending – and
despite sourcing some of its supplies from outside Europe – Germany
will provide additional opportunities for the European industrial base.
However, this effort is not an isolated one within the European Union
(see our analysis), as, in 2025, Denmark, Sweden, the Netherlands and
Spain collectively committed to a greater increase in their defence

budgets than Germany’s additional expenditure. The EUR 150 billion
SAFE1 fund, intended to finance the European rearmament effort,
will generate an additional increase in demand that will benefit
European defence manufacturers, particularly in EU countries that are
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
a. Total
Total Excluding large orders
German industry is benefiting from current investment cycles
CHART 1
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

c. Other transport equipment
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
d. Computer, electronic, optical products and electrical
equipment
New industrial orders (index 2021=100, 6-month moving average)
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
b. Total (ex-large orders)
Domestic
Foreign, eurozone
Foreign, non-eurozone
SOURCE: DESTATIS, BNP PARIBAS

### Page 2

4
economic-research.bnpparibas.comEcoWeek 26.20 /18 May 2026
The bank
for a changing
world
accelerating their military build-up, especially in Eastern Europe (most
notably, Poland and Romania). This will encourage the development
of new technological niches in which China is not yet able to compete,
even though Beijing is investing heavily in the defence sector.
German Mittelstand companies are capitalising on defence, electrifi -
cation and AI investment cycles through inputs into sectors such as

electronics and IT, and electrical equipment (see Charts 1c and 1d).
This is underlined by the sustained rise in new orders for communi -
cations equipment (+30% since January 20252), electronic parts (+11%)
and precision optical instruments (+30%). These two sectors account
for 15% of German industrial production3 (ahead of machine tools and
the automotive sector, at 12% each). Orders for ‘other transport equip-
ment’ (accounting for 5.8%) – driven mainly by the aerospace sector

– are also seeing an unprecedented rise in volumes. This rebounding
demand is still hampered by production constraints. However, it points
to a recovery in industrial activity.
There are still significant short-term risks, as the energy crisis caused
by the conflict in the Middle East could hit the German automotive
and chemicals sectors even harder. Despite this, German growth
is expected to strengthen to 0.8% in 2026, and then 1.1% in 2027.
By diversifying its industrial base, Germany is building up a capacity for

recovery that should not be underestimated.
HOW SHOULD EUROPE POSITION ITSELF AGAINST CHINA?
The balance of power remains structurally unfavourable. The EU’s
trade deficit with China widened further in 2025 (EUR 360 billion).
The balance has swung into the red for the automotive sector, which is
a turning point. In addition, Europe’s dependence on Chinese imports
shows no sign of abating. China’s share of total EU imports even in -
creased in 2025. The country remains essential for Europe’s supply of

critical materials and vital equipment for the green transition (see our
analysis).
Nevertheless, Europe retains competitive advantages in the aerospace
and pharmaceutical sector 4 and a range of cutting-edge industrial
equipment on which China’s energy transition and industrial develop-
ment still depend, most notably semiconductors5.
Furthermore, in the services sector, the balance of power still favours
Europe. In recent years, Europe had been recording a growing surplus

in high value-added services – intellectual property, IT/telecommu -
nications services and finance (see Chart 2). That said, these service
exports stagnated in 2025. This decline is partly due to unfavourable
exchange rate effects, as the depreciation of the renminbi, by around
8% against the euro in 2025, has eroded the competitiveness of Euro -
pean exporters across all markets (goods, services and third markets).
However, China’s 15th Five-Year Plan targets these sectors (see our

analysis) and China’s efforts in research and development continue to
grow. According to the OECD, in 2024, R&D expenditures exceeded Ame-
rica’s in terms of volume6 to reach 2.7% of GDP (see Chart 3), compared
with 2.1% for the EU-27 (Germany spent more on R&D, at 3.1% of GDP).
Furthermore, US protectionism has redirected some Chinese exports
towards Europe, exacerbating the pressure on sectors that have
already been weakened by Chinese overcapacity.

2 Data averaged over twelve months.
3 Weight in the industrial production index (2021 structure).
4 According to our calculations, the EU’s market shares in the aerospace and pharmaceutical sectors stood at 33% and 62%, respectively, compared with less than 3%
for China (source: UN Comtrade).
5 For further details, see Relearning the Language of Power: Geopolitical coalitions and pooled geoeconomic deterrence as Europe’s plan B for a post-WTO world,

Geostrategic Europe Taskforce, February 2026.
6 According to the latest OECD data (March 2026), China spent USD 859.3 billion on research and development in 2024, compared with USD 847.9 billion for the United
States in purchasing power parity terms.
This nevertheless provides Europe with leverage in negotiations, as it is
a key export market for Beijing’s high value-added products, as well as
a location for its companies to set up operations. In addition, enhanced

partnerships between Chinese and European car manufacturers on Eu-
ropean soil reflects a certain pragmatism. This is because Europe has
unused production capacity, and China wants to establish a presence in
Europe to better secure its third-party markets.
SOURCE: EUROSTAT, BNP PARIBAS CHART 2
0
5
10
15
20
25
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
Milliers (rhs) Balance
Exports
Imports
* financial services, intellectual property rights, "telecommunications, computer and information services", other

business services
In the services sector, the EU benefits
from China’s transformation
EUR bn           EU exports of high-value-added services* to China
SOURCE: OECDCHART 3
1,5
1,7
1,9
2,1
2,3
2,5
2,7
2,9
3,1
3,3
3,5
2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
France Germany US EU-27 China
Chart 3                                                                               Source: OECD
China’s technological rise continues

% GDP                       Research & development expenditures

### Page 3

5
economic-research.bnpparibas.comEcoWeek 26.20 /18 May 2026
The bank
for a changing
world
While a recalibration of competition rules is needed in relation to Chi-
na, the challenge for Europe is not to engage in a tariff war that would
backfire on its own exporters and drive up the cost of its imports of
critical inputs. The challenge is to accelerate the transformation of its
industrial base. For this purpose, Europe can rely on new growth hubs,

as Spain, Portugal and some Central European economies are currently
benefiting from lower production costs. It can draw on a lower-carbon
electricity mix (renewables and nuclear accounted for 71% of electri -
city generation in 2025). The challenge now is to harness these assets
in a coherent and structured manner.
The diverging interests among Member States is a structural obstacle,
but the current economic and security climate allows for significant

progress. As a result, a structured response from Brussels is beginning
to take shape, centred on two complementary pillars: protection and
diversification. The latest development is the provisional agreement on
the Critical Medicine Act, reached on 12 May, that is intended to help
to reduce Europe’s dependence on Asian suppliers for a list of essential
medicines. Rules on supply diversification could soon be extended to
sectors most exposed to Chinese overcapacity 7. Another step forward,

though still under negotiation, is the Industrial Accelerator Act, which
would open access to Chinese FDI, under stricter conditions, to sectors
where upscaling in Europe is needed. This would be a realistic and
mutually beneficial option for the EU and China. On the other hand,
safeguard measures in strategic industrial sectors where Chinese over-
capacity is at its largest (chemicals, automotive and steel) justify expli-
cit and coordinated public European support.

With this in mind, the recommendations of the Draghi and Letta re -
ports aiming to strengthen the European internal market remain more
relevant than ever. The economies of scale enabled by a strengthened
internal market and European harmonisation policies are key com -
ponents of the ‘One Europe, One Market’ roadmap drawn up by the
European Commission and endorsed by the Member States following
the European Council meeting on 18 April (see table in our latest Eco -

Perspectives).
7 See Financial Times, EU plans to force companies to buy parts from non-Chinese suppliers, 18 May 2026.
EU EXPORTS ARE BEING REORIENTED
These advances, albeit very gradual, together with the strengthening
of the investment cycle in Europe, are laying the foundations for a
rise in intra-EU trade. Intra-EU trade began to recover in 2025 (+0.4%
in volume) after several years of contraction. The rise in German in -
dustrial orders from the Eurozone sends a positive signal for 2026

(see Chart 1b). At the same time, the EU-27 are finding new markets
by regionalising part of their trade, through increased exports to the
EFTA (+2.0% in volume in 2025) and the EU’s immediate periphery
(see our analysis). Exports to the United States also held up well in
2025 (+0.6%). Furthermore, the EU has responded to trade tensions
by stepping up trade negotiations (with Mercosur, India, Malaysia and
Australia) and strengthening strategic partnerships on access to criti -

cal minerals (Chile, Australia and Canada).
***
By capitalising on ongoing structural cycles – defence, artificial intelli-
gence and energy transition – Europe is cushioning part of the ‘Chinese
shock’, whilst remaining heavily dependent on industrial inputs from
China. Europe’s resilience strategy will be based on three complemen-
tary pillars: shifting industrial focus towards the most promising sec -
tors, strengthening the internal market and harmonising policies, and

securing supply chains. Up against China’s rise, time seems to be wor-
king against Europe, but the EU’s room for manoeuvre is not as limited
as it appears.
Guillaume Derrien
guillaume.a.derrien@bnpparibas.com

---
## Document 289: US large banks_ The peak of the cycle is not the time to be complacent

Source PDF: all report pdf/US large banks_ The peak of the cycle is not the time to be complacent.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 9
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1

In Summary 
• US large-cap banks posted record Q1 2026 earnings, and both earnings growth and 
asset quality sits well above trend. Yet, investors seem wary about how long the 
good times can last, for at least four reasons. Bank equities underperformed the S&P 
500 and credit spreads widened versus non -financial peers. The market is looking 
beyond balance sheets and pricing a gap between reported solvency and true loss-
absorption capacity.  
• First, buybacks offer short-term support but have limits. The Big Six returned over 
USD110bn in 2025 and ~USD32bn in Q1 2026 alone via share repurchases, 
mechanically inflating EPS levels. But buybacks support EPS growth only as long as 
they continue: once excess capital is exhausted, the growth tailwind disappears with 
a cliff effect, leaving valuations resting entirely on business growth. Elevated trading 
income and the M&A cycle are both volatile and unlikely to persist at current levels. 
• Second, regulatory softening reduces buffers. The March 2026 Basel III/GSIB/stress-
test proposals will cut CET1 requirements for the largest banks by ~5–6% cumulatively. 
Banks have already positioned for this: CET1 ratios for the Big Six fell ~100bps y/y, 
and this direction will persist as big banks still have rich buffer of around 2pps against 
the minimum required CET1 ratio.  
• Third, SRTs artificially lift reported CET1. Synthetic risk transfers (SRT) have grown 
five-fold since 2016 (~EUR800bn outstanding), allowing banks to shed risk-weighted 
assets and boost CET1 ratios without reducing actual exposure. “Organic” solvency, 
which is not at the mercy of high -risk-buyers, is lower than headline ratios suggest – 
an estimated gap of 43bps from the CET1 ratio, plus the procyclical and liquidity risk 
that have not been tested yet. 
• Last, long financial cycles analysis points to weaker fundamentals for the banking 
industry in the years ahead. Based on BIS methodologies, potential financial strains 
can be detected by examining credit -to-GDP, real credit growth, and residential 
property prices over 8–30 year periods. This framework, which successfully identified 
the two last U.S. financial or banking crises (the S&L crisis and the GFC), helps spot out 
cycle reversals that typically precede stress, though timing remains uncertain. Current 
signals indicate the U.S. long financial cycle has passed its peak and entered a 
downturn phase between 2021 and 2023. Emerging strains may extend beyond bank s 
to non-bank financial institutions, given their larger role in the economy. Although real 
corporate credit growth has been picking up recently, and credit standards have 
loosened, most other segments (such as mortgages) have been subdued for several 
years now, suggesting that the US economy is indeed entrenched in the downward 
phase of the long financial cycle. 
• The conclusion is asymmetric.  Equity prices may capture the upside created by 
continuous share buybacks in the short term. But the valuations, which already embed 
rate-driven net interest income (NII), buyback-fueled EPS growth and M&A super cycle 
tailwinds, are fragile and leave no r oom for disappointment. Credit spreads have 
widened modestly but do not compensate for structurally thinner capital buffers. The 
largest banks may be well-positioned to weather a downturn; the question is whether 
their investors are being paid enough for t he risk that one arrives.

Ziqi Ye 
Investment Strategist 
ziqi.ye@allianz.com

Maxime Darmet 
Senior Economist US-UK-France 
maxime.darmet@allianz-trade.com

Romain Poncet 
Research Assistant  
romain.poncet@allianz-trade.com

Allianz Research | 6 May 2026 
US large banks: The peak of the cycle is not the time 
to be complacent

### Page 2

2

Is it the peak of the cycle for US banks? 
America's large banks entered Q2 2026 in their strongest collective shape since before the financial crisis. Five 
out of the biggest six banks beat Q1 consensus estimates, supported by high trading income and the M&A and I PO 
cycle. Bank of America's equities trading income jumped 30%, representing its best trading quarter in 15 years. 
JPMorgan’s markets revenue hit a record USD11.6bn, with fixed income up 21% and equities up 17%. Goldman 
Sachs’ investment banking fees grew 48% year-over-year to USD2.8bn. However, Wells Fargo stood out, with the 
NII revenue miss sending its stock price down 5 -6% on results day. Looking past the decade, the current cycle is 
clearly well above the long-term trend. Plotting the average earnings per share of the Big Six against its long-run 
trend shows that the group's average EPS now sits materially above trend at levels that have historically preceded 
compression rather than c ontinuation.    
Figure 1: Earnings cycle goes above long-term trend

Nevertheless, markets are wary  about how long the good times can last . The recent market reaction 
demonstrated more concerns than confidence. Since earnings season kicked off on 13 April, US large banks (KBW 
Bank Index) have dropped 0.6%, and underperformed the broader index (S&P 500) by more than 5pps. In credit, 
the divergence is subtler but more structurally revealing: US bank and broker spreads have widened relative to non-
financial investment-grade issuers (keeping ratings and maturities equal). Investors have started to demand more 
compensation to hold bank credit than comparable corporate s. 
Figure 2: US bank stocks performance year to date (rebased to100)

0,0
1,0
2,0
3,0
4,0
5,0
6,0
Q2 15 Q4 16 Q2 18 Q4 19 Q2 21 Q4 22 Q2 24 Q4 25
Average EPS of Big 6 Banks
85
90
95
100
105
110
12-2025 01-2026 02-2026 03-2026 04-2026
US large banks index (BKX) S&P 500
The start of 
the earnings 
season

### Page 3

3

Figure 3: Credit performance  - US banks credit premium is picking up

In the short term, the large scale of share buybacks is a cause for concern. America's six largest lenders returned 
more than USD110bn to shareholders in 2025, and Q1 2026 suggests the pace is accelerating with around USD32bn 
total repurchased. Share buybacks are, mechanically, among the most direct levers available to support earnings 
per share and the stock price: the fewer the shares outstanding, the higher earnings per share – an immediate signal 
of management confidence. But this is capital optimization, not capital creation. As buyback programs slow – 
whether from unstable trading revenue or simply from the pool of excess capital being exhausted – the mechanical 
EPS support they have provided will diminish. The equity story then rests entirely on the underlying earnings power 
of the business. At current multiples, that is a thin margin of safety  because the elevated trading income and 
investment banking income is inherently volatile and not guaranteed to persist . 
Figure 4: US Big Six banks distributed more than USD120bn capital in 2025 by share repurchases  
For credit investors, it hurts more. The equity on a bank's balance sheet is the buffer that absorbs losses before 
bondholders are impaired. Each repurchase, executed at a premium to book, reduces that buffer in absolute terms. 
The Tier 1 capital ratio across the US banking system, which reflect banks’ credit quality, is now turning for the first 
time after the interest rate shock in 2022. Tier 1 capital adequacy fell 13bps in the last quarter of 2025, reflecting 
the capital return program and signaling the peak of the credit cycle. And the new Basel III proposal announced 
last month was explicitly designed to push it further down.

-2
0
2
4
6
8
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
janv-25 avr-25 juil-25 oct-25 janv-26 avr-26
US Non-Fin 1-10 year
US Banking and Brokerage
US Banking spreads pick-up vs Non-Fin (rhs)
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
20152016201720182019202020212022202320242025 Q1
2026
JPMorgan Chase BofA Wells Fargo
Goldman Sachs Morgan Stanley Citi

### Page 4

4

Figure 5: US banks regulatory  Tier 1 capital to risk-weighted asset

In the medium term, deregulation is reducing buffers. The turning trend of bank Tier 1 capital adequacy brings us 
to the mid-term concern of deregulation. On 19 March, the Fed, OCC and FDIC jointly issued three proposals that 
cover Basel III Endgame, the GSIB surcharge and stress testing. The Basel III component revises capital requirements 
specifically for the largest banks (Category I and II banks) – setting higher requirements on trading activity while 
deliberately lowering risk weights on traditional lending. However, the GSIB surcharge revision reduces additional 
capital charges on the eight largest systemic institutions. Combined with proposed stress-testing changes, CET1 
requirements for the largest banks will decline by 4.8% on a cumulative basis, while Tier 1 requirements will fall by 
approximately 6%. Banks had anticipated the direction and positioned accordingly. Ahead of formal confirmation, 
the Big Six had built an average CET1 buffer of 2pps above regulatory minimums to guard against the threat of the 
original, more punitive 2023 rules. With that threat now formally lifted, the incentive to maintain the excess is gone. 
CET1 ratios fell by an average of nearly 100bps y/y – Goldman Sachs and Wells Fargo led the compression – with 
excess capital flowing directly into the buyback program s detailed above.  
Figure 6: Big Six CET1 Ratio Q1 2026 vs Q1 2025, y/y change in bps

The second engine is less visible but runs parallel. Even before deregulation formalized the relief, banks had been 
quietly optimizing regulatory capital  through synthetic risk transfers (SRTs). Through these structures, bank s 
transfer the credit risk of a tranche of their loan book to private investors – typically private credit funds, insurers or 
hedge funds – retaining the loans on their balance sheets while the CET1 ratio improves. Globally, SRT issuance has 
grown fivefold since 2016, with outstanding loan portfolios protected reaching almost EUR800bn as of end-20241. 
European banks have traditionally dominated the market, but US banks expanded this market rapidly in 2023 and

1 International Association of Credit Portfolio Managers (IACPM) (2025): Global SRT Bank Survey 2016 –2024. 
15,79
12
13
14
15
16
Q2
2011
Q2
2013
Q2
2015
Q2
2017
Q2
2019
Q2
2021
Q2
2023
Q2
2025
-250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
7%
9%
11%
13%
15%
17%
BAC C GS JPM MS WFC
y/y decrease (rhs) CET1 Ratio 1Q25
CET1 Ratio 1Q26 Min. CET1 Requirement

### Page 5

5

2024 and account for roughly 20% of global issuance volume by the end of 2024. 2 While SRTs volume is still small 
relative to bank balance sheet, procyclicality risk and liquidity risk that haven’t been tested by a credit downturn 
are the core problems. In a broad economic downturn, banks may find credit protection expensive or unavailable 
when capital needs are greatest – forcing a simultaneous pullback in lending that amplifies the very downturn it 
coincides with. The liquidity dimension compounds this when open-ended funds investing in SRTs face redemption 
pressure in stress .  
Figure 7: Underlying pool size by issuer region  (EUR bn)

Regulatory relief lowered the floor, while SRTs removed the risk from headline ratios. Combining those two 
engines, the financial system is not as well-capitalized as its headline ratios suggest: everything that has been 
moved into the shadows should also be deducted.  When stress surfaces, the gap that is invisible on paper will 
become visible in prices.  
The opacity of fast-growing private lending has created another risk in the longer term. In response to growing 
market concerns on private credit, the Big Six have voluntarily disclosed more detail on their non-bank financial 
institution (NBFI) lending in recent quarters. Without a certain reporting standard, banks brought similar 
reassurance – NBFI exposure is growing slowly but the size is still relatively small.  
Figure 8: Increasing amount of US bank loans to NBFIs

2 Basel Committee on Banking Supervision (BCBS) (2026): The rise and risks of synthetic risk transfers . 
0,3 9,0
12,5 14,9
21,3
29,6
54,9 85,4
72,0
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
EU Other Europe North America and other
0%
5%
10%
15%
0
50
100
150
2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025
Loan Commitments to Private Lending (Bn USD)
NBFI Share of Bank Loans in US (rhs)

### Page 6

6

Detecting downturn risks 
Long financial cycle analysis offers valuable insights to detect potential banking strains before they occur. We 
build on the work from the BIS3 which seeks to characterize empirically the booms and busts of the financial cycle 
since the 1970s. The analysis combines two analytic approaches: turning-point analysis and frequency-based filters. 
It looks at three macro-financial variables that are found to best capture the medium-term financial cycle, lasting 
between 8 and 30 years: the credit-to-GDP ratio, the growth of real credit and the growth of real residential property 
prices. Only credit to the private credit is included. When the statistical analysis identifies a consistent turning of the 
cycle across these macro-financial variables, including past the trough, financial strains are likely to occur in the 
next couple of quarters or years – the timing being uncertain.  The long financial cycle has been a good indicator to 
anticipate the two banking crises in the US over the past 40 years: the L&S savings crisis starting in 1988-89 and the 
Global Financial Crisis (GFC) starting in 2007. Unfortunately, a big caveat is that there have been only two 
occurrences of banking or financial crises over the past couple of decades, so the empirical regularity of the signal 
has to be taken cautiously. Nevertheless, the long financial cycles have also been good predictors of banking and/or 
financial strains in other markets, which leads us to take these signals seriously.  
 The financial cycle now signals weakness for the finance industry ahead. Figure 9 depicts the financial cycle for 
the US since the 1970s. It shows that we are past the peak of the cycle recently, with both signals converging, and 
signaling the beginning of a downturn phase in the cycle, which had begun between 2021 (turning-point analysis) 
and 2023 (filter method). Figure 10 shows the evolution of the three underlying variables. Since 2021, the year-on-
year growth slows down, or even becomes negative since 2024-25. The strains looming in the finance industry are 
not necessarily bank-driven. The analysis looks at aggregate measures of credit. Supply of credit by banks mak es 
up only 30% of the total supply of credit. Hence, strains could also emerge in non-bank financial institutions (NBFI s) 
rather than banks, though the links between the two are closely tied.   
Figure 9: Long financial cycle in the US

3 Characterizing the financial cycle: don’t lose sight of the medium term! , BIS Working Papers No 380, June 2012.  
0
1
-0,5
1971
1973
1975
1977
1979
1981
1983
1985
1987
1989
1991
1993
1995
1997
1999
2001
2003
2005
2007
2009
2011
2013
2015
2017
2019
2021
2023
2025
Peak financial cycle Trough financial cycle
Recession Filter Method financial cycle
Business cycle
Savings and loans crisis 
GFC

### Page 7

7

Figure 10: Growth y/y  (%) of the components of the financial cycle and GDP

The turning of the long financial cycle has just begun and signals further rises in delinquencies and charge-offs 
ahead. The turning of the financial cycle reflects the combination of potentially several factors but are mostly 
determined by rising Fed interest rates when the central bank strives to reduce inflationary pressures or financial 
exuberance (loose credit standards and increased supply of credit to risky products ). Higher interest rates are 
gradually feeding into higher rates to the private sector  and tightening credit standards as borrowers become 
weaker amid rising interest expenses. In turn, curtailed supply of credit and higher interest rates lead to decelerating 
real property prices, pressuring down the value of collateral for households and some corporates, which further 
exacerbate the credit downturn. This is related to the financial accelerator theory. Eventually, it means typically 
slower growth of banks' revenues, and increasing costs related to provisions as more borrowers struggled to replay 
their debt. Figure 11 shows that after the financial cycle turns down (with the turning point method sending a signal 
before the filter method in the last episode), delinquencies and charge off rise. In the current environment, private 
credit defaults would appear much higher if borrowers held to public market standards. Figure 12 shows that 
including distressed exchanges realized default rates on leveraged loans would indeed have been much higher, 
corresponding well to the current trend of the financi al cycle.  
Figure 11: Financial cycle compared to the evolution (basis 100) of the charge -off rate (on all loans) and 
delinquencies (on all loans and leases , all commercial banks)

It is important note that this analysis captures long -term trends: within this long cycle, we are currently 
witnessing easier credit standards and a pickup of credit creation, suggesting that strains are not imminent. For 
instance, the Fed SLOOS survey indicates that banks have loosened credit standards for corporate loans since early 
2023 and that real credit growth has accelerated from end -2025. But those are unlikely to be sustained if the 
downturn phase of the long financial cycle is entrenched. Our analysis suggests that this short term cycle will reverse 
soon.  
-30%
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023
Credit (real) Credit/GDP
Property prices GDP
-0,6
0,4
0
200
400
600
800
1985Q1
1987Q2
1989Q3
1991Q4
1994Q1
1996Q2
1998Q3
2000Q4
2003Q1
2005Q2
2007Q3
2009Q4
2012Q1
2014Q2
2016Q3
2018Q4
2021Q1
2023Q2
2025Q3
Peak financial cycle Charge-off rate
Delinquencies Filter Method financial cycle

### Page 8

8

Figure 12: Financial cycle compared to default rates on leveraged loans including distressed exchanges

What does this mean for investors?  
US large -cap banks have entered mid-2026 in their strongest operational position since 2008 – earnings at cycle 
highs, balance sheets well-capitalized, capital returns at a record pace. However, as discussed above, the forces 
pushing the cycle turning are cumulating. Beyond the cycle, structural headwinds form from digitization, where low-
cost disrupters are manifold. The American Bankers Association warned that a stablecoin market scaling toward 
USD2trn could drain up to 10% of core bank deposits, raising funding costs by roughly a quarter of a percentage 
point – a modest but directionally unwelcome addition to an NII outlook that is already plateauing4. At the same 
time, current equity valuations and credit spreads offer investors almost no cushion against disappointment.   
Share buybacks and high ROEs will keep benefiting equity holders in short-term. Current valuations price in three 
tailwinds continuing simultaneously – rate-driven NII, a buyback-fueled EPS ramp-up and a M&A super-cycle. But 
none are guaranteed in the long-term. The market has already paid for the good news but has not priced in the 
medium-term and long -term cycle turning pressure.  
With tight spreads, the upside is more limited for credit investors. Downside risk would be amplified if the large 
amount of capital distributed to shareholders and the persisting downtrend of solvency has been billed to them, as 
lower required capital means a thinner equity buffer sitting above bondholders. Though solvency is still healthy and 
far from triggering concerns even after the proposed capital release, credit investors are not being asked to absorb 
such structurally lower protection at historical thin compensation. Senior bank spreads have widened relative to 
non-financial investment-grade peers , but only modestly, and not in a way that reflects the structural shifts.  
The banks themselves, in launching CDX Financials index, have built another instrument to make the shadow 
system they created legible and hedgeable — and declined to include themselves in its perimeter.  The largest 
banks, at their peak, are still well-positioned to weather the downturn. The question the market is beginning to ask 
in the gap between record earnings and cautious share prices is whether their investors are being adequately 
paid to stand in the rain with them.

4 Huther, J. and Wang, Y. (2025). "How stablecoins could affect borrowing costs for the government, businesses and 
households." ABA Banking Journal, August 2025.  
-0,7
-0,2
0,3
0,8
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
1998 2002 2006 2010 2014 2018 2022
Realized default rate
Realized default rate including
distressed exchanges
Filter Method financial cycle

### Page 9

9

FORWARD-LOOKING STATEMENTS 
The statements contained herein may include prospects, statements of future expectations and other 
forward -looking statements that are based on management's current views and assumptions and involve 
known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results , performance or events may differ materially from 
those expressed  
or implied in such forward -looking statements.  
Such deviations may arise due to, without limitation, (i) changes of the general economic conditions and 
competitive situation, particularly in the Allianz Group's core business and core markets, (ii) performance of 
financial markets (particularly market v olatility, liquidity and credit events), (iii) frequency and severity of 
insured loss events, including from natural catastrophes, and the development of loss expenses, (iv) mortality 
and morbidity levels and trends,  
(v) persistency levels, (vi) particula rly in the banking business, the extent of credit defaults, (vii) interest rate 
levels, (viii) currency exchange rates including the EUR/USD exchange rate, (ix) changes in laws and 
regulations, including tax regulations, (x) the impact of acquisitions, inc luding related integration issues, and 
reorganization measures,  
and (xi) general competitive factors, in each case on a local, regional, national and/or global basis. Many of 
these factors may be more likely to occur, or more pronounced, as a result of te rrorist activities and their 
consequences. 
NO DUTY TO UPDATE 
The company assumes no obligation to update any information or forward -looking statement contained 
herein, save for any information required to be disclosed by law.

Allianz Trade is the trademark used to designate a range of services provided by Euler Hermes.

---
## Document 304: 【RimeData周报】AI产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围 2026年第20周

Source PDF: all report pdf/【RimeData周报】AI产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围 2026年第20周.pdf
Report source: 深圳来觅数据信息科技
Date: 2026-05-26
Pages: 16
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

【RimeData 周报 05.16-05.22】AI 产业进入全栈整合
期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围 
2026 年第 20 周（05.16–05.22）

截至 2026 年 5 月 22 日 18:00，本周融资事件共 138 起（不包括并购、定增），
较上周减少了 31 起，融资金额总计约 73.34 亿元（谨慎估计），较上周减少了
45.19 亿元。在所有融资事件中，本周融资金额在亿元及以上的融资事件有 28
起，较上周减少了 18 起。本周公开退出案例 24 个，较上周减少了 4 个。其中
IPO 案例 9 个。另外，本周有 219 家机构参与了一级市场投资，较上周减少了 4
家。

本周已披露金额的融资事件 81 起，较上周减少了 34 起，融资金额区间分布结构
与上周无明显变化，本周 500 万以下的融资事件 1 起，较上周减少了 6 起；500
万-1000 万（含 1000 万）融资事件合计 35 起，较上周减少了 7 起；1000 万-
5000 万（含 5000 万）融资事件为 12 起，较上周减少了 3 起；5000 万-1 亿
（含 1 亿）的融资事件 22 起，较上周减少了 12 起；1-5 亿（含 5 亿）融资事件
为 10 起，较上周减少了 3 起；5-10 亿（含 10 亿）的融资事件 1 起，较上周减少
了 2 起；10 亿及以上融资事件 0 起，较上周减少了 1 起。

### Page 2

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

图：05.16-05.22 融资金额 区间分布                   数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据 
请读者留意，由于本周有 37 起融资事件未公布准确的融资金额，出于谨慎考虑，
笔者做了暂取较小值处理，涉及金额至少 14.15 亿元，约占融资总额的 19.3%。
另外，因融资事件的延迟披露，本期周报仅收录了本周五 18:00 前公开披露的融
资事件，可能导致统计分析与实际情况存在细微偏差，感兴趣的读者可以登录
Rime PEVC 平台获取全量融资事件、被投项目及深度数据分析。

本周重点事件 
具体来看一下本周值得关注的热门事件：

### Page 3

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

图：05.16-05.22 重点事件                                  数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据 
（1）电商物流：05 月 15 日，LiberAI 宣布完成近 5 亿天使+ 轮融资，本轮投资
方包括红杉中国、真格基金、北京龙珠股权投资基金合伙企业(有限合伙)等 5 家机
构。该公司总部位于北京，属于消费品与服务行业。北京将闲科技有限公司是一家
专注于同城即时配送领域的科技创新企业,致力于通过数字化技术提升城市物流效
融资方 总部地区 融资日期 融资轮次 融资金额
（人民币） 来觅赛道
LiberAI 北京 2026-05-15 天使+ 轮 近5亿 电商物流
矩量光启 上海 2026-05-18 天使轮 2亿 超导量子芯片
极壳科技 上海 2026-05-18 B+ 轮 5000万美元 医疗设备
华羽先翔 湖南 2026-05-18 Pre-A+ 轮 超1亿 无人机系统
宇石空间 北京 2026-05-18 A 轮 5亿 运载火箭
弼领生物 上海 2026-05-18 C 轮 4亿 创新药
Zendure 广东 2026-05-18 B 轮 数亿 便携式储能
临界点AGILINK 上海 2026-05-19 A+ 轮 数亿 具身智能
晶核生物 上海 2026-05-19 B 轮 近4亿 核药
爱科诺生物 江苏 2026-05-19 C 轮 5000万美元 小分子药物
拓深科技 浙江 2026-05-19 D 轮 数亿 智能电网
辐联科技 上海 2026-05-19 D 轮 7.5亿 核药
贝塔无限 北京 2026-05-20 种子+轮 数亿 具身智能
适宇科技 上海 2026-05-20 A 轮 近1亿 智能座舱
隼瞻科技 广东 2026-05-20 天使+ 轮 近1亿 EDA/IP
趋境科技 北京 2026-05-20 Pre-A 轮 数亿 AI软件
京捷购生活 福建 2026-05-20 B 轮 数亿 零售电商
智象未来 安徽 2026-05-20 B+ 轮 近1亿 AI大模型
擎天租 上海 2026-05-20 A+ 轮 数亿 具身智能
纽伦捷生物 江苏 2026-05-20 A 轮 近1亿 创新药
星际开发 四川 2026-05-21 A+++ 轮 数亿 卫星研制
海桓科技 上海 2026-05-21 C 轮 数亿 船舰设备
渊澈太初 北京 2026-05-21 Pre-A1 轮 超5亿 机器人大模型
利屹恩 上海 2026-05-22 B 轮 超1亿 船舶制造
汇智国际旅游 广东 2026-05-22 C1 轮 近2亿 B2B电商
华鹰航空 陕西 2026-05-22 A 轮 超5亿 固定翼无人机
MatriQ 原子矩阵 浙江 2026-05-22 A 轮 数亿 中性原子量子计算
钧合原子 上海 2026-05-22 天使轮 数亿 核能
重点融资事件 2026年第20周（05.16-05.22）

### Page 4

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

率。公司以自主研发的智能调度系统为核心,构建覆盖华北地区的本地化配送网络,
服务于中小型商家与个人用户。公司在 2021 年正式上线运营,持续探索轻资产、
高协同的城市末端物流解决方案。 
（2）运载火箭：05 月 18 日，宇石空间宣布完成 5 亿 A 轮融资，本轮投资方包
括高榕资本、昆仑资本、建发新兴投资等 13 家机构。火箭总装测试、筷子回收技
术验证、火箭产能建设和团队建设。宇石空间成立于 2024 年，专注于大运力低成
本快速复用液体火箭的研发和制造，致力于打破当前商业火箭价格高、产能低的发
展困境，为客户提供成本较低的快速复用液体火箭，其核心产品 AS-1 号火箭正处
于二子级共底贮箱生产阶段。 
（3）核药：05 月 19 日，辐联科技宣布完成 7.5 亿 D 轮融资，本轮投资方包括
Vivo Capital、SK Biopharmaceuticals Co., Ltd.、成为资本等 8 家机构。推进公
司临床阶段管线的开发，包括针对前列腺癌的潜在同类最佳（best-in-class）药
物 [225Ac]Ac-FL-020，以及针对多种实体瘤适应症的潜在同类首创（first-in-
class）药物 [225Ac]Ac-FL-261；支持公司在比利时先进生产设施启动 GMP 级 
225 Ac 同位素的生产。辐联医药成立于 2021 年，是一家靶向癌症治疗服务商，
该公司的核心平台旨在解决当今放射性药物中存在的问题，如生产高质量和数量放
射性同位素以满足未来需求的能力，以及针对未来放射性药物治疗的创新转化和生
物学研究平台。 
（4）机器人大模型：05 月 21 日，渊澈太初宣布完成超 5 亿 Pre-A1 轮融资，本
轮投资方包括普华资本、砺思资本、元禾璞华、苏州工业园区元禾原点创业投资管
理有限公司、国方创新。本轮融资将主要用于技术研发、团队扩充和市场拓展等方
面。渊澈太初成立于 2025 年 8 月，依托于神经肌电信号（EMG），开发面相交
互入口、端侧智能的产品解决方案，涵盖 2C*2B 大规模数据采集、肌肉电信号、
交互、具身大模型算法开发和终端硬件平台三大方向。

融资轮次分析  
从融资轮次的分布来看，本周天使轮和 A 轮依旧最为活跃，合计达 87 起，较上周
减少了 26 起；B 轮和战略融资分列第三、第四；本周早期融资（A 轮及以前）融

### Page 5

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

资事件数合计占比 69.57%，较上周增加了 0.34 个百分点。融资金额方面，本周
天使轮融资位居榜首，占比为 28.34%；其次是 A 轮，占比为 26.11%；其后 B
轮，占比为 16.16%。

图：05.16-05.22 融资轮次 融资事件数量分布      数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据

图：05.16-05.22 融资轮次 融资金额分布          数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据 
行业赛道分析 
本周融资事件涉及到 15 个行业，根据融资事件数量统计，前五行业分别为信息技
术、装备制造、电子、医药健康、电力设备与新能源，前五行业融资事件合计 99

### Page 6

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

起，占本周融资事件总数和的 71.74%，行业集中度较上周减少 6.96 个百分点。
本周信息技术融资数量排第一，为 35 起，较上周减少 10 起，主要集中在 IT 服
务、应用软件等领域。装备制造位居第二，为 20 起，较上周减少 18 起，主要集
中在自动化设备、航天航空等领域。电子位列第三，为 19 起，较上周减少 8 起，
主要集中在半导体、电子元器件等领域。

图：05.16-05.22 行业分布 融资事件数量        数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据 
按融资金额统计，前五行业依次为医药健康、装备制造、信息技术、消费品与服
务、电力设备与新能源，前五行业的融资金额合计 66.59 亿元，占融资总额
90.80%，融资金额上行业集中度较上周增加 14.28 个百分点。从融资金额来看，
本周医药健康行业居首，主要受辐联科技 7.5 亿 D 轮、弼领生物 4 亿 C 轮的影
响。装备制造行业位居第二，主要受宇石空间 5 亿 A 轮、渊澈太初超 5 亿 Pre-A1

### Page 7

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

轮的影响。信息技术行业位居第三，主要受矩量光启 2 亿天使轮、汇智国际旅游
近 2 亿 C1 轮的影响。

图：05.16-05.22 行业分布 融资金额 TOP10        数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据 
本周创投领域的核心主线，是人工智能产业正在从单纯的"模型参数竞赛"，全面转
向"算力-模型-硬件"全栈整合的新阶段。  
人工智能政策体系正在从顶层设计走向落地实施。国家发改委 5 月 20 日透露，目
前已出台制造、医疗、能源等十多个行业的"人工智能+"政策文件，正在谋划出台
加快"人工智能+"落地的配套文件，同时开展人工智能立法研究。政策推进的重点
已转向"场景开放"和"要素保障"，包括布局国家人工智能应用中试基地，推动央国
企开放高价值应用场景。地方层面，山东省 5 月 21 日发布"人工智能+制造"三年
行动方案，目标到 2028 年 AI 产业营收突破 2500 亿元，三年投入超百亿元资
金，推出"模型券""场景券"等创新政策工具。  
英伟达通过资本并购正在重塑 AI 产业格局。过去 16 个月，英伟达豪掷 900 亿美
元完成超过 145 笔 AI 领域并购，覆盖从上游光通信、中游数据中心到下游大模型
公司的全产业链。通过"投资绑定客户—客户采购 GPU—GPU 需求暴涨反哺利润"

### Page 8

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

的闭环模式，英伟达正在构建自我强化的 AI 生态帝国。这一趋势对创投市场的影
响深远：单纯的技术型 AI 创业公司独立生存空间正在收窄。 
AI 硬件与模型的深度融合成为新的创投热点。AI 初创公司 Hark 本周完成 7 亿美
元 A 轮融资，估值达 60 亿美元，英伟达、AMD、英特尔三大芯片巨头罕见同时
参投。Hark 采取极度垂直整合的策略——同步研发自有基础模型、软件栈及定制
硬件。这反映了行业共识：下一代 AI 的突破点在于模型与硬件的深度融合。 
硬科技 IPO 迎来历史性爆发窗口。国产 DRAM 龙头长鑫科技 5 月 27 日科创板上
会，拟募资 295 亿元，有望创下科创板半导体行业募资纪录。其 2026 年一季度
营收 508 亿元，同比增长 719%，净利润 330 亿元；预计上半年净利润 500-570
亿元，同比增长超 22 倍。按销售额统计，长鑫科技全球 DRAM 市场份额已达
7.67%，稳居全球第四、中国第一。 
总体来看，本周创投市场呈现出清晰的政策与资本双向助推格局：政策层面，"人
工智能+"正在从顶层设计走向落地实施；资本层面，英伟达的全链条并购和三大
芯片巨头联合押注 AI 硬件，都指向 AI 产业正在从泡沫期走向实质性的产业整合
期。

来觅数据通过总结私募股权、创投基金的投资特征，结合市场投资热点和国民经济
行业分类等权威信息，构建了更贴合国内一级市场的投资赛道和行业体系，包括
39 个一级赛道、1100 余个二级赛道及 15 个一级行业，感兴趣的读者可以登录

### Page 9

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

Rime PEVC 平台查阅来觅一级市场行业全貌。另外，您还可查阅来觅战略性新兴
产业、硬科技赛道等更多信息。

地区分布情况 
本周地域分布上，融资事件数量前五的地区是上海、北京、广东、浙江、江苏，前
五地区合计发生融资事件 112 起，占所有融资事件数量总和的 81.16%，地域集中
度较上周增加 13.7 个百分点。融资金额方面，前五的地区为上海市、北京市、广
东、陕西、江苏，前五地区融资金额合计 63.0 亿元，占所有融资总额的 85.9%，
地域集中度较上周增加 0.64 个百分点。

地区 融资事件数量 融资金额
（亿元人民币） 数量占比 融资金额占比
上海 27 28.89                      19.57% 39.39%
北京 24 17.89                      17.39% 24.39%
广东 23 5.78                        16.67% 7.88%
江苏 19 5.14                        13.77% 7.01%
浙江 19 3.97                        13.77% 5.41%
四川 7 1.30                        5.07% 1.77%
安徽 5 1.10                        3.62% 1.50%
陕西 2 5.30                        1.45% 7.23%
湖南 2 1.00                        1.45% 1.36%
湖北 2 0.50                        1.45% 0.68%
福建 1 1.00                        0.73% 1.36%
吉林 1 0.40                        0.73% 0.55%
香港 1 0.30                        0.73% 0.41%
天津 1 0.30                        0.73% 0.41%
河南 1 0.27                        0.73% 0.37%
重庆 1 0.10                        0.73% 0.14%
新疆 1 0.10                        0.73% 0.14%
山东 1 -                         0.73% 0.00%
总计 138.00                   73.34                     100% 100%
融资事件数量和金额-按地区统计 2026年第20周（05.16-05.22）

### Page 10

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

图：05.16-05.22 地域分布                                  数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据

图：05.16-05.22 地区分布情况                           数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据 
机构投资分析 
从机构投资活跃度来看，本周共有 219 家投资机构参与投资，合计出手 269 次。
博将资本（5 次）、砺思资本（4 次）、元禾控股（4 次）、高瓴创投（4 次）、
深创投、美团龙珠、蚂蚁集团、复旦科创、水木清华校友种子基金、彬复资本均为
3 次，在创投市场中较为活跃。

### Page 11

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

图：05.16-05.22 投资机构分布 投资次数 TOP10 数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据 
退出与 IPO 事件 
从退出情况来看，本周共有 24 个公开退出案例，较上周减少了 4 个。从退出方式
来看，股权转让 6 个，较上周减少了 5 个；并购 1 个，较上周减少了 3 个；新三
板挂牌 8 个，较上周增加了 2 个；IPO 项目 9 个，较上周增加了 2 个。

### Page 12

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

图：05.16-05.22 公开退出 退出方式数量分布      数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据

从行业分布来看，本周退出案例共涉及 10 个行业，较上周持平。退出案例数量前
三的行业为材料、汽车、装备制造，合计退出案例 14 个，占总案例数的 58.33%

图：05.16-05.22 公开退出情况   行业数量分布    数据来源：RimeData 来觅数据

具体来看一下本周 IPO 事件：

### Page 13

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

（1）汽车：05 月 18 日，天海汽车电子集团股份有限公司（简称：天海集团，股
票代码：001365.SZ）正式在深圳证券交易所上市。天海集团本次发行股票
7900.00 万股，发行价 27.19 元，募集资金 21.48 亿元。天海汽车电子集团股份
有限公司是实力雄厚的连接器科研、生产基地和新兴的汽车电子产品研发基地，主
要生产经营汽车用连接器、中央电气接线盒、汽车电子产品、电线束、线束专用自
动化装备、新能源汽车产品。 
（2）装备制造：05 月 18 日，浙江翼菲智能科技股份有限公司（简称：翼菲自动
化，股票代码：6871.HK）正式在港交所主板上市。翼菲自动化本次发行股票
2460.00 万股，发行价 30.50 港元，募集资金 7.50 亿港元。浙江翼菲智能科技股
份有限公司成立于 2012 年,总部位于山东省济南市高新技术开发区,在上海、杭
州、深圳、苏州、临沂等地设有子公司,研发、办公、生产总面积 3 万余平,是一家
集工业机器人研发和制造、控制系统开发、视觉系统开发、智能制造解决方案和设
备提供于一体的国家级专精特新“小巨人”企业。经过十余年的奋斗,翼菲科技已
成长为全球领先的轻工业全品类工业机器人提供商。公司拥有轻工行业全品类工业
机器人及核心零部件,包括并联机器人、SCARA 机器人、小六轴机器人、AGV 机
器人、晶圆搬运机器人、机器人控制器、通用控制器、视觉系统等。 
（3）汽车：05 月 18 日，河南嘉晨智能控制股份有限公司（简称：嘉晨智能，股
票代码：920096.BJ）正式在北京证券交易所上市。嘉晨智能本次发行股票
1800.00 万股，发行价 14.43 元，募集资金 2.60 亿元。公司主营业务为车辆智能
驱动控制系统的研发、生产和销售。公司将车辆“运动控制”(包括电机驱动控制
和整车控制)与“智能网联”有效融合，为整车制造厂商提供“运动控制+智能网
联”的整体解决方案。公司依托电机驱动控制、整车控制和智能网联三大子系统，
运用电力电子技术、嵌入式软件技术、无线通讯技术、边缘计算及云端智能算法模
型等技术，实现车辆信息的感知、运算、决策和运动控制，以及车辆运行的远程监
控、故障智能诊断和关键部件的全生命周期管理。 
（4）汽车：05 月 20 日，驭势科技（北京）股份有限公司（简称：驭势科技，股
票代码：1511.HK）正式在港交所主板上市。驭势科技本次发行股票 1446.12 万
股，发行价 60.30 港元，募集资金 8.72 亿港元。驭势科技成立于 2016 年，领创
“全场景+真无人+全天候”无人驾驶解决方案，基于自主研发的“通用无人驾驶

### Page 14

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

技术栈 U-Drive®”平台，可实现无人驾驶解决方案在不同场景的规模化快速复
制，满足不同客户、不同场景的高级别自动驾驶需求。 
（5）装备制造：05 月 20 日，上海拓璞数控科技股份有限公司（简称：上海拓
璞，股票代码：7688.HK）正式在港交所主板上市。上海拓璞本次发行股票
6533.00 万股，发行价 26.39 港元，募集资金 17.24 亿港元。上海拓璞数控科技
股份有限公司成立于 2007 年，由机械制造、自动化、计算机信息等多领域学科的
专家博士、机床行业资深企业家和工程技术人员联合创立。公司以先进技术为驱动
力，通过不断的技术研发和产品的迭代升级，铸造“国之重器”，为中国制造业提
供高端工业母机及核心数控技术和服务。上海拓璞面向制造业提供高端装备与技术
的定制化服务，现已完成了核心智能制造的八大板块产品的定制化和标准化设计，
包括中小五轴联动数控加工中心、龙门五轴加工中心、卧式五轴翻板铣加工中心、
碳纤维轻量化超高精度加工中心、机器人自动制孔设备、大型搅拌摩擦焊接、双五
轴镜像铣加工系统等产品业务。 
（6）消费品与服务：05 月 22 日，宁波惠康工业科技股份有限公司（简称：惠康
国际，股票代码：001237.SZ）正式在深圳证券交易所上市。惠康国际本次发行
股票 3708.79 万股，发行价 53.26 元，募集资金 19.75 亿元。宁波惠康工业科技
股份有限公司成立于 2001 年，是一家专业从事制冷设备的研发、生产、销售的企
业，产品包括制冰机、紧凑型冰箱、冷柜、酒柜、饮料柜、冰淇淋机、扎啤机、气
泡水机等。 
（7）材料：05 月 22 日，泉州嘉德利电子材料股份公司（简称：嘉德利，股票代
码：603435.SH）正式在上海证券交易所上市。嘉德利本次发行股票 4600.00 万
股，发行价 15.76 元，募集资金 7.25 亿元。嘉德利是一家双向拉伸聚丙烯薄膜生
产商，引进了全套布鲁克纳电容器用聚丙烯薄膜生产线及整套实验室检测设备，并
配备了阿特拉斯高速分切设备和康普分切机，电容膜分为三个系列，其中超薄膜和
高温膜具有显著的竞争优势，产品厚度涵盖了 1.9 微米到 14.8 微米的范围。 
（8）电力设备与新能源：05 月 22 日，江苏朗信电气股份有限公司（简称：朗信
电气，股票代码：920220.BJ）正式在北京证券交易所上市。朗信电气本次发行
股票 1324.13 万股，发行价 28.29 元，募集资金 3.75 亿元。公司主营业务为热管
理系统电驱动零部件业务的研发、生产及销售，是国内市场份额最大的乘用车电子

### Page 15

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

风扇供应商。公司自 2009 年成立以来，始终坚持以电驱动技术及热管理应用为核
心发展方向，经过 10 多年发展积累，公司在电机高效率、轻量化、低噪音、低电
磁干扰等方面形成了自主解决方案，拥有智能化、数字化工厂及完整质量检测体
系，具备为客户新产品、新应用需求进行同步开发并提供性能优异、质量稳定、价
格优质、交付及时的产品服务能力。 
（9）医药健康：05 月 22 日，丹诺医药（苏州）股份有限公司（简称：丹诺医
药，股票代码：6872.HK）正式在港交所主板上市。丹诺医药本次发行股票
885.60 万股，发行价 75.70 港元，募集资金 6.70 亿港元。丹诺医药成立于 2013
年，是一家以临床需求为导向，专注细菌感染和代谢相关疾病领域，开发同适应症
首创或最佳新药产品的公司，拥有独特的多靶点偶联分子新药研发平台和全球知识
产权保护的新药产品研发管线，目前已有多个产品进入后期临床试验阶段，目标适
应症包括幽门螺杆菌感染、植入医疗器械感染、肝硬化肝性脑病和腹泻型肠易激综
合征等常见和重大疾病，致力于解决这些领域未满足的临床需求，为中国乃至全球
患者提供安全有效的新药产品。

来觅 PEVC 功能速递：登记基金管理人 
该模块涵盖基金业协会登记的所有基金管理人及其备案信息，精准关联投资机构，
清晰展示机构、基金管理人及其管理基金之间的关系。提供 T+1 实时更新，确保
数据及时高效。同时，您可自由提取关键指标，包括注册地、注册资本、机构类
型、在管基金和业务类型等数据指标，助力投资决策和市场洞察，让您轻松掌握基
金管理行业的最新动态与趋势信息。

### Page 16

RimeData 周报：AI 产业进入全栈整合期，政策与资本双向助推硬科技突围

---
## Document 365: 中国：2026～27年の成長率見通し－好調な出だしも束の間、中東情勢不安定化の影響が先...

Source PDF: all report pdf/中国：2026～27年の成長率見通し－好調な出だしも束の間、中東情勢不安定化の影響が先....pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-05-22
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
25
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
需要関連指標
輸出
小売
投資
（前年比、%）
（年/月）（注）小売・投資の1・2月は年初来累計。輸出はドル建て。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
2025 2026 2027
実績 予測 予測
前年同期比、％ 5.0 4.3 3.6
最終消費 前年同期比、％ 4.9 4.1 3.6
総資本形成 前年同期比、％ 2.0 3.1 2.3
純輸出 寄与度、％pt 1.6 0.8 0.7
前年同期比、％ 0.0 1.2 0.6
期末、％ 1.4 1.4 1.4
平均、元/ドル 7.19 6.82 6.66
（注）一部試算値。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
政策金利
対ドル為替レート
実質GDP
消費者物価
1. 中国の 2026 年 1～3 月期の実質 GDP 成長率は、前年同期比＋5.0％と、前期（25 年 10～12
月期）の同＋4.5％から加速した。だが、好調は束の間で、4 月には国内の経済活動に悪化の
兆しがみられる（下左図） 。中東情勢不安定化によるエネルギー価格上昇を受け、下落が続い
てきた企業物価は 3 月以降、 急速に上昇している。 国内の不動産不況や地方債務問題に加え、
中東情勢が一段の下押し圧力として顕在化しつつある模様だ。他方、AI や GX など特定の領
域に関しては、 内需、 外需ともに好調が続いている。 二極化の様相を呈するなか、 総じてみれ
ば下押し圧力が強まっている状況で、当社が試算した月次の実質 GDP 成長率は、4 月に＋
3.9％まで低下した。 
2. 今後を見通すと、 中東情勢の影響は続くだろう。 米 ・ イランの協議の先行きは依然として不透
明で、エネルギー価格も一定の水準で高止まりすると予想される。足元でも石油化学製品の
稼働率は低下しているとみられ、5 月以降も経済への下押しが続く可能性が高い。このほか、
不動産不況などの国内問題も不安定化要因として燻っており、 引き続き注視が必要だ。4 月 28
日開催の中央政治局会議では、外部ショックに対して体系的に対応する方針が示されている
が、現時点では補正予算など追加対策を講じる考えは示唆されていない。当面は様子見での
経済運営となるだろう。 
3. 26 年から 27 年にかけての実質 GDP 成長率は、それぞれ＋4.3％、＋3.6％と、減速が続くと
みている（下右図）。26 年は「＋4.5～5.0％」の成長率目標に及ばない可能性も危惧される状
況だ。国内外の下押し圧力が 5 月から 6 月にかけてどの程度続くか、また、仮に下振れリス
クが強まった場合、7 月下旬に開催予定の中央政治局会議などで機動的に対策を見直すこと
ができるかが当面の注目点となる。 
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-22 
中国：2026～27 年の成長率見通し 
好調な出だしも束の間、中東情勢不安定化の影
響が先行きのリスクに

経済研究部 主任研究員 三浦 祐介 
（03） 3512-1787  y -miura@nli-research.co.jp

### Page 2

（図表 3） （図表 4）

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2024/3 2025/3 2026/3
実質GDP成長率
前年同期比
前期比（年率）
（％）
（年/月）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
25
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
需要関連指標
輸出
小売
投資
（前年比、%）
（年/月）（注）小売・投資の1・2月は年初来累計。輸出はドル建て。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
1
▲ 8
▲ 4
0
4
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
PPI
PPI
生産財
消費財（右目盛）
（年/月）
（前年比、％）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
2025 2026 2027
実績 予測 予測
前年同期比、％ 5.0 4.3 3.6
最終消費 前年同期比、％ 4.9 4.1 3.6
総資本形成 前年同期比、％ 2.0 3.1 2.3
純輸出 寄与度、％pt 1.6 0.8 0.7
前年同期比、％ 0.0 1.2 0.6
期末、％ 1.4 1.4 1.4
平均、元/ドル 7.19 6.82 6.66
（注）一部試算値。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
政策金利
対ドル為替レート
実質GDP
消費者物価

### Page 3

投資の動向について、26 年 4 月の固定資産投資の前年同月比伸び率（名目、 以下同）は、 前月から悪
化し、マイナスに転じた（図表 7）。内訳をみると、製造業、インフラ、不動産開発など主な業種でいず
れも伸び率がマイナスに転じた。設備投資も、前月から伸び率が低下した。 
外需の動向について、26 年 4 月の輸出（ドル建て）の伸び率は、前月から上昇した（図表 8）。国・
地域別にみると、米国向けが昨年 4 月の相互関税発動から 1 年経ち、 それまでのマイナスからプラスに
転じた。ASEAN 向け、EU 向け、日本向けはいずれも加速した。財別では、鋼材がマイナス圏で推移
した。一方、プラスチック製品や家電等はマイナスからプラスに転じたほか、コンピュータ・同部品や
集積回路は加速した。輸入（ドル建て）の伸び率は、前月から小幅に低下した。貿易収支は、848 億ド
ルの黒字となり、前年同月比では減少した。

（図表 5） （図表 6）

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
生産
鉱工業
ハイテク製造業
サービス業
（前年比、％）
（年/月）（注）1・2月は年初来累計。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
45
46
47
48
49
50
51
52
53
54
55
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
PMI
製造業
サービス業
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（年/月）

### Page 4

（消費・家計） 
消費の動向について、26 年 4 月の小売売上高の伸び率をみると、前月から低下した（図表 9）。財の
伸び率はマイナスに転じ、外食サービスの伸び率は低下した。 
一定規模以上企業を対象にした統計で財の品目別の動向をみると、衣類等や化粧品の伸び率が前月か
ら低下したのに対し、宝飾品では伸び率がマイナスに転じた（図表 10）。26 年も継続されている耐久消
費財の買い替え支援策の対象商品については、オフィス用品等では伸び率がマイナスに転化、通信機器
では伸び率が低下した。家具や家電・AV 機器は伸び率が前月からマイナス幅が拡大した。自動車およ
び不動産関連の財（建築・内装材）も、マイナス幅が前月から一段と拡大した。

（図表 7） （図表 8）

（図表 9） （図表 10）

▲ 40
▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
固定資産投資（業種別）
全体 インフラ
製造業 不動産開発投資
（前年比、％）
（年/月）
（注）インフラは、3業種（ユーティリティ、交通運輸・倉庫・郵政、水利・環境・公共施設）の
合計。1・2月を除き、年初来累計値に基づく単月の試算値。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 500
0
500
1,000
1,500
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
財輸出入（ドル建て）
貿易収支（右目盛）
輸入
輸出
（億ドル）（前年比、％）
（年/月）
（注）1・2月は年初来累計（貿易収支は平均値）。
（資料）中国海関総署、CEICよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
社会消費品小売総額
小売全体
うち外食
サービス
（前年比、％）
（年/月）
（注）1・2月は年初来累計。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 30 ▲ 20 ▲ 10 0 10 20 30 40
衣類・帽子・履物等
化粧品
宝飾品
家電・AV機器
オフィス用品等
家具
通信機器
建築・内装材
自動車
社会消費品小売総額（一定規模以上企業、財別）
26年3月
26年4月
（前年比、％）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 5

（不動産市場） 
不動産市場について、26 年 4 月の住宅販売床面積の伸び率は、マイナス幅が前月に続き縮小した（図
表 13）。住宅販売価格（70 都市単純平均）の前年同月比は、22 年 4 月以降、49 カ月連続でマイナスと
なっている。25 年 11 月以降は、マイナス幅の拡大が続いている。 
供給側の動向に関して、住宅着工床面積（3 カ月後方移動平均）の伸び率は、前月に続きマイナス幅
が小幅に拡大した（図表 14）。一方、住宅竣工床面積（同上）の伸び率は、マイナス幅が縮小した。住
宅完成在庫床面積は依然増加しているが、 伸び率は前月から小幅に低下した。 また、 不動産開発資金（同
上）の伸び率は、依然として前年同月比でマイナスとなっており、マイナス幅は 4 月にやや拡大した。

（図表 11） （図表 12）

（図表 13） （図表 14）

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
調査失業率
全体 農民工 16～24歳（在学生含まず）
（年/月）
（％）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
消費者信頼感指数
消費者信頼感指数 雇用先行き
所得先行き 消費意欲
（年/月）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 9
▲ 6
▲ 3
0
3
▲ 30
▲ 25
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
住宅販売面積・価格
販売面積 販売価格（右目盛）
（前年比、％） （前年比、％）
（注）価格は70都市平均、面積は、1・2月を除き年初来累計値に基づく単月の試算値。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（年/月）
▲ 40
▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
住宅供給関連指標
着工 竣工
在庫 不動産開発資金
（前年比、％）
（注）在庫以外の指標は、1・2月を除き、年初来累計値に基づく単月の試算値（3カ月後方
移動平均）。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（年/月）

### Page 6

３. 物価・金融の動向 
（物価） 
物価の動向について、26 年 4 月の消費者物価指数（CPI）の前年同月比（以下同）は、前月からプラ
ス幅が拡大した（図表 17）。豚肉はマイナス幅が拡大した一方、食品・エネルギーを除くコア CPI は、
プラス幅が拡大、自動車等燃料は一段と上昇した。工業生産者出荷価格（PPI）は、22 年 10 月以降、
41 カ月連続でマイナスであったが、26 年 3 月にプラスに転じ、4 月はプラス幅が拡大した（図表 18）。

（図表 15） （図表 16）

（図表 17） （図表 18）

▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
歳出
一般公共予算
政府性基金
（前年比、％）
（年/月）
（注）1・2月を除き、年初来累計値に基づく試算値（3カ月後方移動平均）。
（資料）中国財政部、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 40
▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
歳入
一般公共予算
政府性基金
（前年比、％）
（年/月）
（注）1・2月を除き、年初来累計値に基づく単月の試算値（3カ月後方移動
平均）。
（資料）中国財政部、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
▲ 2.0
▲ 1.5
▲ 1.0
▲ 0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
CPI
CPI
CPI（除く食品・エネルギー）
食品（右目盛）
自動車等燃料
（年/月）
（前年比、％）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（前年比、％）
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
1
▲ 8
▲ 4
0
4
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
PPI
PPI
生産財
消費財（右目盛）
（年/月）
（前年比、％）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 7

（金融） 
 金融の動向について、26 年 4 月の M2 の伸び率は、前月から小幅に高まった。 社会融資総量の伸び率
は、民間部門を中心に前月に続き低下した（図表 19）。金融政策に関して、政策金利（リバースレポ・
オペ、7 日物）は、25 年 5 月に 10bps の利下げが実施されたが、 その後は据え置きとなっている（図表
20）。それを受け、貸出金利のベンチマークとなる LPR は、1 年物、5 年物とも、25 年 5 月に 10bps 低
下した後、26 年 5 月まで横ばいで推移している。

（図表 19） （図表 20）

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
社会融資総量
M2 社会融資総量
（前年比、％）
（年/月末）
（資料）中国人民銀行、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
政策金利・LPR
リバースレポ・オペ（7日） LPR（1年） LPR（5年）
（％）
（年/月）（資料）中国人民銀行、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

---
## Document 426: 南ア下院､ラマポーザ大統領への弾劾手続き開始へ ～否決の公算も統一地方選には逆風､ランド相場は外部環境が左右する展開続く～

Source PDF: all report pdf/南ア下院､ラマポーザ大統領への弾劾手続き開始へ ～否決の公算も統一地方選には逆風､ランド相場は外部環境が左右する展開続く～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-05-13
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

World Trends

2026 年 5 月 13 日

1/3 
南ア下院､ラマポーザ大統領への弾劾手続き開始へ 
～否決の公算も統一地方選には逆風､ランド相場は外部環境が左右する展開続く～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（要旨） 
○ 南アフリカ国民議会（下院）は５月 11 日、 ラマポーザ大統領の不正資金疑惑を巡る弾劾委員
会の設置手続き開始を決定した。これは、以前の弾劾手続き見送りの判断を憲法裁判所が憲
法違反と認定したことを受けたものである。ラマポーザ氏は辞任を否定し続投の意向を示し
ており、与党ＡＮＣも弾劾否決に必要な票を確保可能であり、否決される可能性は高い。 
○ 同国では 11 月に統一地方選挙の実施が予定されているが、ＡＮＣの支持率は直近の世論調
査で30％台後半にとどまり、2021 年の前回統一地方選 （45.59％） や2024 年総選挙 （40.18％）
の得票率を下回っている。弾劾問題の行方次第では、党勢がさらに悪化する可能性もあり、
統一地方選はさらなる苦戦を強いられることも十分に考えられる。 
○ 金融市場では政局はほぼ材料視されておらず、ランド相場は外部要因に左右される展開が続
いている。金価格の高止まりが下支え要因となる一方、中東情勢の緊迫化による原油高が経
済のファンダメンタルズを悪化させるリスクがあり、先行きは不透明である。

【南ア下院、ラマポーザ大統領に対する弾劾委員会の設置手続き開始を決定】 
南アフリカ議会の下院（国民議会）は５月 11 日、ラマポーザ大統領の不正資金疑惑を追及する
弾劾委員会の設置手続きの開始を決定した。問題の発端は、2020 年にラマポーザ氏が所有する農場
内にある別荘で窃盗事件が発生したことに遡る。 その際、強盗は家具のなかに隠された多額の現金
を持ち去ったものの、 当時は事件そのものが公表されなかった。 しかし、2022 年に情報機関である
ＳＳＡ（国家安全保障局）のフレーザー元局長が、前述の窃盗事件で盗まれた400 万ドルがラマポ
ーザ氏による不正資金であったことを告発した。なお、フレーザー氏はラマポーザ氏の「政敵」で
あるズマ前大統領の側近であり、 政治的意図による告発とみなされたため、事態収拾が試みられた。 
一方、ラマポーザ氏は盗まれた金額が 58 万ドルであるうえ、農場で飼育していたバッファロー
（水牛）を売却した代金であると説明したものの、 その後も売却されたはずのバッファローが農場
にいるなど説明に疑義が生じた。さらに、盗まれた金額を巡る説明に齟齬が生じているうえ、その
申告の有無、別荘の家具のなかに隠していた理由などが疑惑として浮上し、現地報道では「ファー
ムゲート・スキャンダル」と名付けられた。こうしたことから、議会は元裁判官などで構成される

### Page 2

2/3 
独立調査委員会を設置し、ラマポーザ氏による偽証を示唆する判断を下した。 この判断を受けて、
その後の国民議会では、ラマポーザ氏に対する弾劾の是非を審議する委員会の設置案に関する審議
が行われたものの、反対多数で否決され、弾劾手続きが見送られた経緯がある（注１）。 
しかし、ラマポーザ政権を支える与党ＡＮＣ（アフリカ民族会議）内から離反の動きがみられる
など、党内結束に揺らぎが生じた。ＡＮＣは 2024 年の総選挙を前に分裂し、1994 年の民主化以降
で初めて獲得議席数が単独で半数を下回る事態に発展した（注２）。しかし、 ＡＮＣは白人主体の第
２党ＤＡ （民主同盟） や、 黒人のズールー族主体のＩＦＰ （インカタ自由党） 、 カラード （混血） 系
国民からの支持を集めるＰＡ（愛国同盟）などと連立を形成し、ラマポーザ政権は維持された。そ
の後、憲法裁判所は５月８日に国民議会の判断そのものが憲法違反とする判断を下したため、 一転
して弾劾手続きに舵を切ることとなった。

【否決の可能性は高いが、統一地方選の苦戦は必至、ランド相場は外部環境次第の展開が続く】 
今後は国民議会において弾劾手続きが開始されるものの、弾劾の可決には３分の２以上の賛成票
が必要となる。 前述のようにＡＮＣは単独で半数を下回っているものの、４割近くの議席数を確保
しており、決議が行われても否決される可能性は極めて高い。ただし、与党連立の一角を占めるＤ
Ａは弾劾委員会への積極的な関与を表明しているほか、 今後明らかになる内容によってはＡＮＣか
ら再び離反の動きが広がる可能性も否定できない。なお、前述の憲法裁判所による判断を受けて、
一部でラマポーザ氏の辞任を求める声が出ているものの、同氏は 11 日に行ったテレビ演説で「憲
法裁の判断には私が辞任することを強制する内容は一切含まれていない」 と述べ、 続投する意向を
示している。 
同国では 11 月に統一地方選挙の実施が予定されている。直近の世論調査におけるＡＮＣの支持
率は 30％台後半にとどまり、2021 年の前回統一地方選時の得票率（45.59％） 、2024 年の総選挙時
の得票率 （40.18％） をともに下回るなど、 党勢の低迷に歯止めがかかっていない。弾劾委員会の行
方によっては、ＡＮＣを取り巻く状況が一段と厳しくなる可能性も考えられる。

注１ 2022 年12 月14 日付レポート「南ア･ラマポーザ大統領は弾劾回避も､政治不安が拭えた訳ではない」 
  （https://www.dlri.co.jp/report/macro/218755.html） 
注２ 2024 年５月 31 日付レポート「南ア総選挙､与党ANC が初の半数割れへ､ランド相場は混乱必至か」 
  （https://www.dlri.co.jp/report/macro/340283.html）

### Page 3

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
3/3 
金融市場においては、政局の動きはほぼ材料視されておらず、ランド相場は外部環境に左右され
やすい展開をみせている。2025 年から 26 年初にかけては、金価格の上昇がランド相場をけん引し
てきた（図１）。しかし、 中東情勢の緊迫化を受けてランド相場を取り巻く状況は大きく変化してい
る。 同国は原油輸入の４分の１をサウジ
アラビア、 石油製品輸入の半分以上をオ
マーン、 ＵＡＥ （アラブ首長国連邦） 、 バ
ーレーンなど中東諸国からの輸入が占
めている。さらに、原油や石油製品など
エネルギー資源のほぼすべてを輸入に
依存しており、その収支 （輸出入の差し
引き）はＧＤＰ比▲3.5％の赤字と試算
されるため、 足元の原油高はマクロ経済
に下押し圧力をかける。 そのうえ、輸入
増による対外収支の悪化、 エネルギー価
格の上昇によるインフレなど経済のファンダメンタル ズ（基礎的条件）の悪化を招く懸念もある。
金価格が高止まりしていることがランド相場を下支えしているものの、 実体経済を巡る悪材料が山
積するなか、ランド相場は引き続き外部環境頼みの展開が続くとみておく必要がある。 
以 上 
図 1 ランド相場(対ドル､円)の推移

（出所）LSEG より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

---
## Document 487: 投資策略週報：AI仍是主旋律，股市逢回應加碼

Source PDF: all report pdf/投資策略週報：AI仍是主旋律，股市逢回應加碼.pdf
Report source: Fubon
Date: 2026-05-11
Pages: 23
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
投資策略週報
AI仍是主旋律，股市逢回應加碼
投資研究部
2026/5/11-2026/5/15

### Page 2

報告大綱
2
投資策略
市場訊息
總體經濟
外匯市場
3
7
債券市場
股票市場
機會市場與總結
商品地圖與產品
20
23
8
4
10
12

### Page 3

3
分散佈局掌握市場脈動，建議維持偏多操作
投
資
策
略
市場展望投資策略
 把握殖利率回彈甜甜價，分批佈局金融投等債：美債殖
利率一度飆升為投資人帶來長線債息布局的甜甜價，金
融投資等級債多為大型銀行發行，兼具高信評和穩定配
息特性，存續期短市場波動時發揮抗震效果，建議投資
人把握市況震盪利率走升時分批佈局。(詳見Page 10)
 分散佈局美日台，掌握市場輪動：美股企業無懼油價和
戰爭紛擾，財報和展望穩健，顯示美國經濟仍具韌性。
全球AI題材發酵，帶旺亞洲股市科技類股行情，台灣和
日本推動上市公司企業治理改革亦有利估值提升，建議
以分批策略進行逢回低檔佈局。(詳見Page 12-14)
 科技股為標配，亦看好工業、公用事業和金融股 ：標普
4月約漲10%，漲多難免震盪 ，可佈局高股息標 的或長
線趨勢的AI題材，建議股市逢回加碼科技類股 ，亦看好
受惠於AI基礎建設的工業、公用事業，以及財富管理 、
交易業務表現強勁的大型金融股。(詳見Page 15-18)
 匯市展望：美伊磋商和平協議 ，或為結束戰爭鋪路 ，戰

爭風險情緒緩和 。企業獲利不受中東戰火影響 、非農就
業數據優於預期 ，顯示美國經濟具韌性 ，為美元提供下
檔支撐。後續關注聯準會降息進程 ，預期本週美元指數
在97.2~98.5區間波動。
 債市展望： 美國財政部上修第二季發債至 1,890億美元 ，
美債30年期美債殖利率一度衝破 5％，反映市場對經濟
前景的擔憂，戰事降溫但談判過程仍使油價不時反彈 ，
貿易法院5/10裁定川普對全球課徵10%關稅違法，通膨
壓力減緩，預期美債殖利率4.30~4.42%區間震盪。
 股市展望 : 標普逾80%企業財報優於市場預期，AI科技
巨頭資本支出上修 ，部分雲端業務受 AI驅動表現強勁 ，
顯示AI軍備競賽投資持續且部分已轉化為實質商業獲利 。
即將舉行的川習會或為美中經貿 、關稅等議題帶來利多 。
預期標普指數落在7,250至7,500點間高檔震盪。

### Page 4

AI需求及財報加持，科技股利多頻發
4
市
場
訊
息
頭條新聞
1. 美國與伊朗就一頁式的14點備忘錄進行協議，備忘錄將
宣布停止中東戰事，並開始為期30天的談判，以討論關
於開放海峽、限制伊朗核計畫並解除美國制裁等事項 ，
但若談判破裂，美軍將恢復封鎖或重啟軍事行動 。國際
油價、美元以及美國國債殖利率應聲下跌。
2. 美國財政部長貝森特透露 ，川普無意再延後訪問北京行
程，川習會可望在5/14至15如期登場。中美財經與外交
高層已於4/30先行通話溝通，共和黨籍參議員也率團訪
中，為川普中國行鋪路 。預計川習會晤將討論伊朗戰爭
及中東情勢、台海問題、中美經貿及關稅等議題。
3. 全球主要指數發行商大幅修改規則 ，以縮短超大型股
IPO納入標竿指數的時間 。5月1日起納斯達克 100指數
正式實施「快速納入」機制，新上市企業總市值排名進
入前40超大型股票，從上市起最快15個交易日即可被納
入。標普、富時羅素亦擬修改納入規則。(詳見Page 5)
產業訊息
1. AMD*第一季表現全面優於市場預期，資料中心業務營收

年增57%成為推動成長的最大引擎 ，並在AI晶片需求推
動下釋出強勁的第二季展望 ，今年將推出 AI資料中心整
機系統 Helios，並獲OpenAI與Meta等大型客戶採用 ，
預計AI基礎設施市場滲透率將逐步提升。(詳見Page 6)
2. 美超微(SMCI)*第三季營收 102.4億美元 ，雖低於預期的
123.3億美元 ，但仍較去年同期大增 123%，且獲利優於
預期。同時釋出樂觀的第四季展望 ，財測營收 110~125
億美元、EPS0.65~0.79美元均高於市場預期 ，顯示AI伺
服器供應仍吃緊的情況下，市場需求依舊穩健。
3. 美光*市值突破 7,000億美元 ，引領記憶體族群狂飆 ，執
行長受訪時表示 ，當前記憶體供應吃緊 ，目前AI發展只
是剛起步而已 。隨著AI代理的崛起 ，更高速 、更大容量
的記憶體 ，已成為客戶的 「戰略資產 」，同時預測今年
DRAM和NAND的AI需求將超過產業總市場規模的 50％。
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 5

指數發行商改規則，為巨型IPO開綠燈
5
指數發行商修改上市規則
圖表解讀
➢ 隨Mega Cap IPO規模擴大，標普道瓊指數公司、納斯
達克、富時羅素等指數發行商試圖將超大型股 IPO納入
投資組合 ，以降低被動資金延遲配置帶來的追蹤誤差 。
➢ 納斯達克 100指數5月1日起正式實施 「快速納入 」機
制，新上市股票在掛牌後最快 15天即可被納入指數 ，
同時取消部分嚴格的流通股比例限制 ，加速資金流入 。
➢ 標普500啟動意見徵詢至 5月28日，將變更上市納入指
數所需最短時間從目前的12個月縮短至6個月，同時考
慮豁免大型公司盈利能力要求 。將在6月8日開市前實
施變更，追蹤標普500指數的基金須買入新納入的股票，
根據彭博研究約24兆美元資產與標普500指數掛鉤。
➢ SpaceX 預計於 6 月下旬進行 IPO ， 後續 OpenAI 和
Anthropic亦將陸續上市 ，可望成受惠的巨型 IPO企業。
資料來源：北富銀彙整，2026/5/4
市
場
訊
息
指數 規則變化 實施日期

納斯達克
100指數
若新上市公司的總市值進入指
數內排名前 40 名的「超大型股」
依快速納入機制，最快 15天即
有機會納入指數，打破過去通常
需要一段較長時間的慣例。
取消部分嚴格的流通股比例限
制加速資金流入。
5月1日
標普500
指數
放寬盈利能力限制，未達連續
四季獲利等標準，但符合特定市
值和規模標準企業獲入選機會。
縮短IPO與加入指數的時間，
從目前的12個月縮減至6個月。
意見徵詢
至5月28日。
任何變更
在6月8日開
市前實施。
富時羅素 探索類似的「快速納入」規則，
加速將超大型IPO納入其指數。
-

### Page 6

圖表解讀
➢ AMD是全球兩大AI圖形處理器廠商之一 ，專注於高效
能運算 、繪圖及視覺化技術 ，主要產品涵蓋桌機 、筆
電和遊戲用伺服器處理器 ，並供應資料中心處理器和
AI加速器，以及工業、汽車和醫療等領域專用晶片。
➢ AMD公佈2026Q1財報，營收、獲利全面優於市場預
期，其中AI晶片需求強勁帶動資料中心部門營收年增
57%至58億美元 。5/6股價突破 430.57美元天價 ，市
值突破7,000億美元。
➢ 展望 2026Q2 營運 ， 得 益 於AI 資 料 中 心 需 求 強 勁，
AMD預期營收中位數季增 56%、年增46%，非GAAP
毛利率預計約56%高於Q1的53%，顯示營收、獲利動
能將增強。
➢ AMD執行長蘇姿丰對後市展望正向 ，電話會議上將伺
服器CPU的市場規模預測從原先的600億美元，大幅上
調至超過1,200億美元，建議股價逢回可適度佈局。
AMD財報優於預期，市值破7,000億美元
6
AMD2026年第一季營運回顧
資料來源： Bloomberg，2026/5/6

1.25
1.3
1.35
1.4
96
98
100
102
104
實際 預估
2026財年第一季(億美元)
營收 盈餘
AMD預期本益比與30日波動率

### Page 7

關注本週CPI、PPI數據表現
7
重點提醒
➢ PPI受原物料價格上揚帶動各國 3月數據 。中國PPI已終
結自2022年9月以來負成長 ，強化企業獲利修復預期 。
美國受戰爭對生產和運輸產生影響 ，企業面臨成本上升
壓力。日本後續具通膨壓力加大日銀未來升息可能性。
➢ 美國3月CPI已較2月顯著攀升 ，中東戰事衝擊汽油價格 ，
推升整體通膨 ，4月密大消費者對未來一年通膨預期大
升至4.7%，為去年川普宣布關稅措施以來最大單月升幅 。
中國CPI仍處溫和區間 ，為貨幣政策保留充裕操作空間 。
➢ 4月中旬以來Nike*、Snap*及科技巨頭Meta*、微軟*釋
出裁員計畫 。科技業藉縮減人力尋求成本節約與效率提
升，根據Layoffs.fyi數據今年逾9.2萬名科技業員工失業 。
➢ 美國3月零售銷售升至三年新高 ，反映高油價和大規模
退稅支撐消費 ，為第一季經濟提供支撐並強化市場對
GDP回升預期 ，然高油價傷及經濟前景使 4月增幅收斂 。
央行利率政策及談話
重要經濟數據
日期 國家 數據 前期 預期

5/11 中國 4月PPI(年增) 0.5% 1.8%
5/11 中國 4月CPI(年增) 1.0% 0.8%
5/12 美國 4月CPI(年增) 3.3% 3.8%
5/13 美國 4月PPI(年增) 4.0% -
5/14 美國 5/9首次申請失業金人數 - -
5/14 美國 4月零售銷售(月增) 1.7% 0.4%
5/15 日本 4月PPI(年增) 2.6% -
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/5/5
總
體
經
濟
日期 國家 事件
5/13 美國 FED成員Goolsbee發言
5/14 日本 日銀票委Masu發言
5/15 美國 FED票委Hammack發言
*本頁面僅列示公司名稱非代表單一個股/債券推薦

### Page 8

8
中東局勢降溫，美元下跌
匯市表現說明
➢ 美元指數：美伊磋商停戰協議 ，投資人樂觀期待伊朗戰
爭即將結束，投資人風險偏好情緒改善，國際油價下跌、
美國公債殖利率下滑，對美元造成壓力。
➢ 黃金：美國和伊朗可望達成和平協議的樂觀情緒 ，加上
油價走低、通膨疑慮緩解，以及對聯準會今年後續行動
可能轉變的看法，短期為金價產生支撐。
➢ 澳幣：澳洲為抑制高通膨 ，5/5央行九名政策委員以 8
比1的票數將現金利率上調1碼至4.35%，為連續第三度
上調關鍵利率，等於完全撤回去年貨幣政策寬鬆行動。
➢ WTI原油：美國與伊朗接近達成初步和平協議 ，中東局
勢出現降溫跡象，帶動原油價格回落跌，顯示投資人提
前反映衝突緩解可能帶來的供應恢復。
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/5/11
單位：%
外
匯
市
場
外匯市場回顧
-0.26
0.56
0.21
0.35
0.61
0.50
0.07
0.81
2.19
-6.40
-0.67
0.07
1.55
0.64
1.96
0.37
0.04

1.14
-1.39
2.45
-8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4
美元指數
歐元
日圓
英鎊
澳幣
人民幣(離岸)
港幣
新台幣
黃金
WTI原油
過去一週 過去1個月

### Page 9

政府干預穩定匯市，日圓下方有守
9
圖表解讀
外
匯
市
場
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/5/7
圖表解讀
➢ 自4/30美元兌日圓盤中觸及 160.74政府疑似出手干預 。
日本財務大臣出席亞開行會後表示將依據日美去年簽
署的聲明 ，對投機性走勢採取果斷措施 。2024年日圓
跌至160.17政府多次進場穩定匯市，規模約1,000億美
元。依4/30干預規模 345億美元 ，後續仍有出手空間 。
➢ 日本春鬥連三年調薪逾 5%且失業率落在 2.4~2.7%低
位，勞動市場穩健然4月東京通膨受幼兒園學費 、耐久
財和加工食品價格走緩而意外放緩 ，後續美伊衝突和
油價高企影響逐步浮現 ，推升日本通膨的可能性猶存 。
➢ 美伊戰事降溫但談判過程仍使油價不時回彈 ，日本經
濟數據仍穩健 、通膨或有上行空間 ，日圓下方受政府
穩定匯率操作防線 ，且5/7期貨市場預估 6月日銀會議
升息機率為70%，預期日圓155~157橫盤整理。
預期日圓將橫盤整理
美日利差(L)
美元兌日圓(R)

%

### Page 10

10
債市表現說明
➢ 公債：美國財政部上修第二季發債至 1,890億美元，不過
受到美伊磋商和平協議為結束戰爭鋪路 ，短期戰爭風險
情緒和緩 ，國際油價走弱 ，市場評估通膨升溫的預期減
緩，美國各天期公債殖利率普遍下跌。
➢ 投等債：上週美國各產業投等債報酬普遍上漲 ，其中保
險、必需消費產業相對漲幅較佳 ，這些產業債存續期間
高於整體投資等級債 7年，對利率敏感度較高 ，利率下滑
時漲幅較大 。目前美國投等債具約 5%殖利率，其中金融
產業殖利率相對較高，建議利率回彈配置。
➢ 非投等債：上週美國各產業非投等債普遍呈現上漲 ，其
中科技產 業債漲 幅相對較 高 ，因 科技產業債 利差 收歛
10bps優於整體非投等債。目前美國整體非投等債殖利率
將近7%，在運輸、通訊產業殖利率超過8%相對較高。
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/5/11
債券市場回顧
單位：%
債
券
市
場
美伊和談露曙光，美債普遍上漲
0.36
0.19
0.34
0.38
0.33
0.32
0.05
0.49

0.62
0.41
0.93
0.66
0.06
0.59
0.33
0.53
1.03
0.57
0.99
1.59
1.02
0.71
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0
全球債券
美國公債
全球投資級債
美國投資級債
歐洲投資級債
全球非投等債
美國非投等債
歐洲非投等債
新興市場非投等債
新興市場美元債
新興市場當地債
過去一週 過去1個月

### Page 11

市場不確定性，吸引資金流入美國投等債
11
債
券
市
場
資料來源：JPM，2026/5/6， Bloomberg，2026/5/5
圖表解讀
➢ 今年以來美國投等債在波動中小幅上漲 ，至4/29流入
金額已達去年 35%，顯示在市況充滿不確定下 ，發行
企業體質普遍較穩定的投資等級債具高信用評級 、低
違約風險，對於投資人仍相對具有吸引力。
➢ 受到地緣地緣政治衝突影響 ，市場避險情緒上升 ，投
資人傾向出售高風險資產 ，轉向購買高安全性標的 ，
如低違約率的投資等級債券 ，頻繁調整投資組合中的
資產配置，導致投等債買賣轉手率提升。
➢ 目前美國投等債利差處於歷史低位階 ，今年以來仍小
幅收斂1個基點 ，同時整體投等債目前仍享有約 5%的
殖利率 ，金融、保險業殖利率相對整體為高 ，建議投
資人可擇優配置鎖定長期收益。
今年資金仍穩定流入美國投等債
投資等級債券週轉率(佔面額百分比)
百萬美元
-100000
100000
300000
500000
700000
2023 2024 2025 2026

非投資等級債 新興市場債 投資等級債
A
AA
BBB

### Page 12

12
股市表現說明
➢ 標普500：美伊雙方就一份一頁式的諒解備忘錄接近達
成共識、川普暫停原定協助受困船隻通行荷姆茲海峽的
計畫，地緣衝突降溫，市場風險情緒回升。企業財報陸
續出爐，目前標普500成分股約73%公司營收、約82%
獲利優於市場預期。
➢ 費半指數：AI基建需求爆發，推動企業財報表現，美光
*與Sandisk*大漲帶動記憶體與硬體設備鏈全面上行 ，
記憶體與晶片股等科技族群領漲 ，AMD*和美超微財測
優於市場預期，點燃 AI 基建與晶片族群漲勢，蘋果*評
估美製處理器帶動英特爾*上漲。
➢ 南韓Kospi：韓國上市企業獲利持續成長 ，獲利增長動
能主要來自三星電子*與SK海力士*，受益於AI資料中心
的強勁需求，記憶體晶片供不應求，拉升傳統晶片價格，
挹注今年股市漲幅約90%由基本面所帶動。
股
票
市
場
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/5/11
股票市場回顧 單位：%
科技領軍，標普上漲
*本頁面公司名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
1.78
2.33
11.14

0.51
5.38
7.63
0.38
2.39
0.54
13.63
6.88
7.00
-1.36
-5.37
0.17
-3.97
6.33
8.54
32.46
-0.25
11.02
12.65
-3.83
1.93
-0.29
33.69
17.47
19.35
0.85
-2.71
1.01
-4.86
-10 0 10 20 30 40
MSCI世界
標普500
費半指數
道瓊歐盟50
日經225
MSCI新亞
MSCI拉美
恆生指數
印度Sensex
南韓Kospi指數
台灣加權
標普科技指數
標普金融指數
標普能源指數
標普工業指數
標普公用事業指數
過去一週 過去1個月

### Page 13

AI需求俏，半導體領軍推動台股市值
13
估今年台灣半導體產業產值成長24%
股
票
市
場
圖表解讀
➢ 資策會發布半導體產業趨勢預測 ，AI發展驅動全球半
導體產業需求由景氣循環 ，轉為長期結構性成長動能 ，
預估全球市場規模將提前於 2026年突破 1兆美元 。隨
著AI應用逐漸往代理式 AI與實體 AI發展，加速滲透各
行各業，將成為半導體需求持續成長的關鍵。
➢ 全球供應鏈受地緣政治與政府政策加速產業分工重組 ，
臺灣在晶圓代工與先進封裝領域已成全球 AI供應鏈的
核心節點 。受惠於 AI需求成長強勁 ，資策會預估今年
臺灣半導體產業產值年增 24.4%達7.1兆台幣持續創高 。
➢ 今年全球半導體資本支出估成長 18%至2250億美元，
台灣指標股台積電則成長 34%至36%，顯示景氣向上 、
技術升級以及需求強勁 。台股科技類股囊括半邊天 ，
市值佔約 80%，其中半導體為最大產業別佔比 57%，
受惠產業展望正向，推動台股成為全球市值第六大。
台積電資本支出預估
資料來源：資策會，2026/4/28。富邦投顧，2026/4/27

0
20000
40000
60000
80000
產業產值 晶圓代工 IC封測 記憶體/IDM
2025 2026
億新台幣
0
500
1000
2024 2025 2026 2027
台積電資本支出(億美元)

### Page 14

日政策到位、企業成長、消費復甦吸引外資
14
今年以來外資持續流入日本股市
股
票
市
場
圖表解讀
➢ 日本高市內閣推動策略性產業投資 ，投資優先領域包
含強化國家韌性基礎建設 、國防和安全 。其中，基礎
建設涉及等眾多相關產業，具顯著的財政乘數效應。
➢ 國安則因應區域情勢 ，2026財年預算中防衛費創新高
至9兆日圓，相關國防企業被列為戰略發展核心 ，預計
將獲得更多國家技術研發或資安等補貼 ，政策面亦鬆
綁武器出口限制，可望支撐相關軍工類股業績表現。
➢ 高盛預估東證企業盈餘今年雙位數成長 。春鬥勞資談
判，平均薪資調升幅度連三年高於 5%，加上政府實施
減稅、現金補貼等措施促進消費 ，有望帶動經濟成長 。
➢ 東證持續推動企業優化資產負債表 、提高股利發放和
庫藏股回購等措施 。至4月底已公佈的股票回購總額達
到11兆日圓 。日本企業盈餘增長 、消費動能復甦以及
企業治理改革 ，今年以來持續吸引外資流入日本股市 。
日企宣佈股票回購優於同期表現
資料來源：(上)Bloomberg，2026/5/7。(下)GS，2026/5/1

-10000
-5000
0
5000
10000
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
外資投資日股(百萬美元)
兆日圓

### Page 15

AI發威，科技股仍為美股關注重點
15
市場再度上修五大科技巨頭資本支出預估
股
票
市
場
圖表解讀
➢ Google*、亞馬遜*、Meta*和微軟*人工智慧超大規模
資料中心營運商公佈 2026年第一季銷售額年增 20%、
盈餘年增 61%，Google雲端成長加速 (YoY60%)、亞
馬遜AWS成長超預期(YoY28%) ，微軟Azure成長依舊
強勁(YoY40%)。五大AI巨頭上修今年資本支出至年增
83%約7510億美元。
➢ AI資本支出預期持續上調 ，帶動2026年和2027年AI基
礎設施股票EPS預期從今年以來分別上修了20%和27%，
這也推動標普500指數EPS預期上修的動能。
➢ 季初高盛預期AI基礎設施股票將貢獻今年標普500指數
每股EPS成長約40%以及2027年成長約 30%，儘管投
入成本上升和經濟成長放緩對企業獲利構成下行風險 ，
但隨著AI推動力仍將為獲利成長帶來上行的空間 ，有
望支撐美股後市表現。
資料來源：GS，2026/5/1
10億美元

*AI基礎設施股包含高盛人工智慧半導體（GSCBSMHX）、高盛人工智慧
資料中心（GSTMTDAT）或高盛美洲能源發展（GSENEPOW）。
第一季財報季初 第一季財報公布後
資本支出上調推動AI基礎設施股EPS上修
2026年市場預估累積變動 AI科技巨頭
資本支出
AI基礎設施
股票EPS

### Page 16

記憶體漲勢持續，支持行情動能延續
16
DRAM和NAND價格突飛猛進
股
票
市
場
資料來源：MIC，2026/4/29
圖表解讀
➢ 預計2026年AI用DRAM和NAND晶圓量需求分別年增
45%和27%。龐大資料和參數模型處理量 ，使訓練端
對DRAM晶圓需求規模高 ，不過推論端因長對話 、多
輪 互 動 、 Agent 任 務 等 而 加 速DRAM 部 屬 需 求 。
NAND主要搭載於推論型 AI伺服器 ，模型、資料和內
容快速調用將持續支撐需求增長。
➢ 記憶體在 AI系統架構中提供算力 、推論與資料調用效
率的關鍵 ，AI伺服器需求旺盛以及記憶體產能移轉至
高 毛利 產 品，產 能 排擠 造 成 供應 吃緊 支 撐DRAM 、
NAND，進一步推動近期價格漲勢更勝年初表現。
➢ 雖美光*等大廠已加速擴產仍不及市場需求成長 ，短期
售價不易反轉 ，高盛上修今年 DRAM價格漲幅預測 ，
從先前約150%上調到250~280%且供應緊張或將延續
至2027年初 ，NAND價格漲幅預估由約 100%上修到

200~250%。市場供給壓力升溫支撐後續行情表現。
AI用DRAM和NAND晶圓需求看增
0
500
1000
2024 2025 2026
DRAM NAND
千片/月
0
50
100
DRAM NAND
1/2026 4/2026
YoY

### Page 17

AI需求旺+政府政策支持公用事業發展
17
數據中心到位須仰賴電力瓶頸突破
股
票
市
場
資料來源：Precedence, 2026/1/23。全球電力報告, 2026/4/25
圖表解讀
➢ 調研機構預期未來人工智慧資料中心市場規模將呈雙
位數的年複合成長率 ，今年資料中心世界大會提及 ，
電力供應仍是資料中心的最大挑戰 ，預計至2030年光
是在美國市場即有50GW的電力需求。
➢ AI高耗能需求下白宮第 14156號行政命令 ，即以美國
進入緊急狀態 ，須擴大美國國內電網基礎設施及配套
工業供應鏈 ，奠定電網基礎設施政策的法律基礎 。近
期川普再以國防生產法第303條的行政命令，將電力變
壓器、開關設備、電纜和變電站列為國防必需品。
➢ 公用事業可望獲得美國能源部提供採購承諾 、貸款擔
保、低利貸款及資金補助 ，以達到政府在電力基礎設
施安全的目標 ，有望加速電網設備部署與供應鏈產能
擴張以支援AI負載，可正向看待公用事業後市表現。
美國國防生產法第303條核心要點
0
500
1000

1500
2000
2500
2025 2030 2035
AI資料中心市場規模預估(億美元)

### Page 18

美國最佳銷售員川普，笑納波音大單
18
川普任期出訪海外期間取得波音訂單
股
票
市
場
資料來源：北富銀彙整， 2026/5/6
圖表解讀
➢ 川習會訂於 5月14日至15日在北京舉行 ，焦點為貿易
交易和採購 ，市場關注美中在三 B(波音飛機Boeing、
黃豆Beans、牛肉Beef)的貿易協議，工業指標股波音*
或有望取得近 10年來對華最大訂單 。除了川普出訪以
外、與外國元首會晤或是各國簽署貿易協議 ，皆可見
與波音*訂單掛勾，以此作為改善貿易逆差的手段。
➢ 美伊衝突大量消耗軍備帶動庫存回補需求 ，近期川普
召見洛克希德馬汀 *、雷神*、波音*等軍火廠要求提高
產量以因應持續性的軍事手段 ，挹注軍工股營運動能 。
➢ 美國國防部2027年國防預算規劃達1.5兆美元，年增約
42%至44%，成為二戰後最大規模的單年軍費增長 ，
反映川普政府以實力求和平的理念 ，透過重建國防工
業基礎與投資新興技術 ，確保美國維持全球軍事優勢 。
➢ 不只美國 ，全球國防預算創高 、地緣衝突帶來軍工增

產題材以及波音貿易訂單挹注，支撐工業類股表現。
信用卡利率上限比目前的收益率低2-12%
川普任期 交易時間 交易國家 協議內容
第一任期
(2017~2021年)
2017年5月 沙烏地阿拉伯
波音CH-47契努克直昇機和
P-8海神式巡邏偵察機約
1100億美元
2017年11月 中國 300架波音737和787，總值
約370億美元
2020年2月 印度
30架MH-60羅密歐反潛反艦
多用途直升機和AH-64E阿
帕契攻擊直升機約35億美元
第二任期
(2025~2029年)
2025年5月 卡達
160至210架波音777X和
787，金額達960至2,000億
美元
2025年5月 阿拉伯聯合大
公國
28架波音787與777X約145
億美元
2025年5月 沙烏地阿拉伯 30架波音737 MAX
2026年4月 中國 傳為500架波音737 MAX

### Page 19

圖表解讀
➢ 標普金融類股第一季財報已公佈 72%，營收、盈餘優
於預期1.44%、3.93%，優於前季表現，其中銀行股營
收、盈餘優於預期1.14%、7.66%，其中交易、投行業
務達567億美元，年增19%，顯示華爾街大型銀行受益
交易活動熱絡帶動業績走揚。
➢ 受股價修正 、戰事推升油價並加劇通膨疑慮 ，促使投
資人進行資產再平衡與避險操作 ，第一季花旗*、摩根
士丹利*分別在股票、固定收益交易業務增速高於產業
的年增25%和11%。無論市場好壞 ，都為銀行提供客
戶投資建議與服務價值的機會，進一步帶動交易量。
➢ 高盛*、摩根士丹利*參與聯合利華*食品業務與味好美*
合併等多項大型交易 ，併購顧問費用成長同時擔任
SpaceX IPO案主承銷商之一，投銀業務收入年增48%
和36%。根據Dealogic第一季全球併購交易額達 1.38
兆美元 ，並預期企業將積極利用併購實現成長與轉型 。
金融股關注銀行，交易和投行業務展望正向
19
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/5/6、2026/4/27

股
票
市
場
標普金融股營收、盈餘優於預期
*本頁面僅列示公司名稱非代表單一個股/債券推薦
美國銀行業交易、投行業務1Q年增19%
-0.17%
1.44%
3.36% 3.93%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
4Q25 1Q26
實際值與預估值差異(%)
營收 盈餘
1.14% 2.29%
-0.08%
7.66%
0.82%
6.84%
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
銀行 金融服務 保險
實際值與預估值差異(%)
營收 盈餘

### Page 20

5月機會市場亮點
20
機
會
市
場
資產別 市場 亮點
股票
市場
美國 美國就業市場持穩、受益AI發展以及消費具退稅挹效益，經濟表現具韌性。標普企業盈餘持續上修，
科技、金融產業獲利動能佳，美伊談判仍有變數但無限期延長停火，衝突降溫支撐美股走勢。
日本 新財年預算創新高，半導、AI和國防等為重點支持產業可望受惠。美國科技股獲利強勢、AI資本支
出周期延續，拉動日本上游企業先進材料需求，同時挹注企業海外業務拓展，進而帶動獲利動能。
台灣 半導體與AI供應鏈受益於強勁需求仍為台股盤面焦點。金管放寬國內股票型基金、主動式ETF投資
單一公司股票上限至25%，經證期局核准後可望推升權值股買盤將挹注未來大盤行情。
科技 科技巨頭投入巨資建設基處設施，投資力道高於華爾街預期，AI軍備競賽帶動相關供應鏈獲利動能，
AI推動科技產業盈餘增長，惟資本支出基期墊高，且高估值下波動明顯，需謹慎選股與風險管理。
公用事業 公用事業類股因數據中心帶來的龐大電力需求，已從傳統的防禦型「收息股」轉型為兼具穩健配息

與成長潛力的標的。類股具穩定現金流，但高利率環境估值壓力較大。偏防守與收益型配置。
金融 美國大型銀行首季財報獲利平穩，且資本適足率普遍較高具較強的防禦能力。併購和IPO持續熱絡
利於銀行業。金融機構投資與應用AI技術，優化風控、客戶服務和交易系統提升效率並降低成本。
工業 地緣政治衝突頻繁全球國防預算創高，美國明年預算達達1.5兆美元。美伊戰爭消耗軍備帶動庫存
回補需求，川普要求美國軍工大廠增加產出。川習會可望為波音取得近10年對華貿易大單。
債券
市場 投等債 市場風險情緒回升但不確定性猶存，發行企業體質普遍較穩定的投等債，仍獲資金持續流入，目前
殖利率尚處相對高位區間，建議投資人可擇優配置並逢利率回彈時進行佈局鎖定長期收益。
匯率
市場 人民幣 宏觀經濟驅動拖底經濟，穆迪上調中國主權信用評級至穩定，有助於減少資本外流壓力，中東局勢
趨於和緩，高科技創新技術領域需求熱絡，出口動能延續，人民幣兌美元可能相對趨升。
看好減碼 中立

### Page 21

21
資產別 市場 評論
股票
市場
歐洲 俄烏戰爭延續，加上美伊衝突引發油價高檔震盪，加劇通膨壓力，隨著戰事演進戰略儲備石油逐漸
消耗，歐洲多國著手降低部分領域需求並擬對能源企業徵收特別稅以因應戰爭引發的燃料價格上揚。
中國 新質生產力為戰略發展方向，加上基建、製造拉動GDP成長，然青年失業率仍處高位，房市政策鼓
勵收購空屋做社宅、防範房企債務違約托底。穆迪估經繼續成長且債務有效控管而調升評級至穩定。
新興
市場
受原物料價格走揚以及龐大內需市場支撐，拉美企業盈餘並帶動其股市。具AI供應鏈題材的新亞股
市漲勢較佳。今年MSCI新興市場指數盈餘估年增約40%，擇優佈局可享股市成長利益。
健護
醫療 不確定因素下類股具防禦特質，近期受益財報、會議、調漲支付費率等題材擁護，或迎短暫反彈。
能源 OPEC調升6月產量，然荷姆茲海峽持續封鎖抑制原油供給，油價高位波動，支撐類股高檔盤旋。
房地產 房市需求和交易疲弱。美國長端利率仍等待降息而回落，對地產投資的限制有望逐步趨弱。
消費 大而美法案帶來退稅效益，但高油價使廠商面臨獲利壓力，成本轉嫁推升通膨壓力，侵蝕消費力道。

債券
市場
美國
公債
美伊談判仍有變數但無限期延長停火，衝突降溫亦使油價自高點回落但仍處高檔，公債殖利率也處
高位盤旋，長天期債券仍具資本利得潛力但波動高，中短天期投資價值相對較佳。
非投
等債
發行企業基本面仍穩健，近年違約率相對低。目前殖利率處於相對高位，對投資人具投資吸引力。
非投等債普遍擁有中短存續期，在利率上升的環境下，對於利率波動的敏感性較低。
新興
市場
美伊戰事無限期延長停火資金回流新興市場債市，但仍須留意談判過程仍有變數造成波動。新債發
行有限及資產負債表更為穩健，新興市場各區息差處相對低位。偏好引領主權評級上調新興市場債。
市
場
評
論
看好減碼 中立
其它市場評論

### Page 22

逢低買、勿追高，建議操作宜偏多
22
總
結
貨幣 負向 中立 正向
美元 ●
歐元 ●
日圓 ●
人民幣 ●
澳幣 ●
黃金 ●
原油 ●
全球外匯&商品展望 全球債市展望 全球股市展望 標普產業展望
債種 負向 中立 正向
全球債 ●
美國
公債 ●
投資
等級債 ●
非投資
等級債 ●
新興
當地債 ●
國家 負向 中立 正向
美國 ●
台灣 ●
日本 ●
韓國 ●
歐洲 ●
中國 ●
產業 負向 中立 正向
科技 ●
消費 ●
工業 ●
金融 ●
健護 ●
公用事業 ●
房地產 ●
能源 ●
• 標普大漲可能迎來波動增加，然AI大趨勢不變，推動
科技股與基礎建設相關的工業、公用事業類股。
• 重點關注隨地緣政治波動的能源價格、通膨預期以及
殖利率、美元走勢，影響跨國企業獲利和股價走勢。
• 把握殖利率回彈甜甜價，分批佈局金融投等債。
• 傳美伊就諒解備忘錄達成共識，關注美伊和談進展，或
牽動航運和原油市場變化。
• 聯準會新任主席Warsh預計5月中正式上任，關注Fed
可能面臨的政策轉向。

• 川習會預訂5/15舉行，關注經貿和地緣衝突議題。
• 關注科技產業重要年會GTC大會(6/1-4)、WWDC(6/9-
13)、Computex(6/2)、SEMICON West(10/13)等。
後市觀察重點Key Notes
●  代表與機會市場不同

### Page 23

信賴該等資料做出投資決策為由，向本行主張任何權利。未經本行授權，禁止以任何形式引
用、抄襲、重製或轉寄本研究報告。
警語

---
## Document 505: 标普九周连涨、创2023年底最长，原油创六年来最大月跌幅，黄金冲高回落

Source PDF: all report pdf/标普九周连涨、创2023年底最长，原油创六年来最大月跌幅，黄金冲高回落.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-05-30
Pages: 10
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

标普 5 ⽉累涨超 5% 。绩后戴尔涨近 33% ，数据存储商 NetApp 涨超 22% 。甲⻣⽂涨超 10% ，
微软涨超 5% 。蓝⾊起源⽕箭爆炸带崩太空股， ASTS 暴跌超 14% 。⽐特币持稳于 7.35 万美
元，本⽉累跌 3.6% 、以太坊累跌超 11% 。现货⻩⾦⼀度涨超 2% ，本周累计涨 0.75% 。 WTI
原油下跌 1.73% ，布油跌 1.77% 。
摘要：
美伊停⽕延⻓预期与 AI 基础设施投资热潮共同驱动市场， 5 ⽉成为今年迄今最具标志性的⼀个交
易⽉。
油价重挫为股市上涨扫清通胀隐忧，标普 500 指数实现九周连涨，创 2023 年 12 ⽉以来最⻓周线
连胜纪录； WTI 原油则录得 2024 年 4 ⽉以来最⼤单⽉跌幅。
华尔街⻅闻提及，据新华社援引美国媒体报道，⼀名不愿透露姓名的政府⾼级官员称，美国总
统特朗普当天在⽩宫战情室同其助⼿们的会议持续约两个⼩时，但并未就与伊朗的协议作出 “ 最
终决定 ” 。
据该美媒，上述⾼官表⽰，特朗普政府认为美伊已接近达成协议，但仍有⼀些事项尚在商讨之

中，其中包括解冻伊朗⽅⾯的资⾦。
周五，美股三⼤指数⼩幅收涨，标普 500 涨 0.22% ，道指涨 0.72% ，纳指涨 0.21% 。市场从⽇内
盘中⾼点明显回落，显⽰投资者在等待官⽅确认前态度趋于审慎。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

这份谨慎背后，是对协议能否落地的切实疑虑。特朗普离开情况室时未就协议作出任何决定，
⽬前卡塔尔持有资⾦的处置⽅式据报仍是最后谈判焦点之⼀。 Miller Tabak 的 Matt Maley 指出：
周五同时创下标普 500 史上最⼤单⽇看涨期权成交量纪录。
据⾼盛顶级量化分析师 Brian Garrett ，当⽇看涨期权占全部期权成交量的 70% ， FOMO （错失恐
惧）情绪与 YOLO （全⼒押注）操作交织，折射出当前市场投机氛围之浓烈。
企业财报同样是周五的重要催化剂。戴尔科技⼤涨 33% ，华尔街⻅闻提及， Q1 公司上调了全年
营收及调整后每股盈利预期，分析师普遍称之为 " ⼜⼀个超预期季度 " ， AI 服务器需求强劲是核⼼
驱动⼒。
本周，标普 500 指数累涨约 1.5% ，录得第九周连涨，创下⾃ 2023 年以来的最⻓连涨纪录。这⼀
连胜纪录⾃ 1985 年以来仅出现过寥寥数次。
我们认为交易告吹的⻛险依然存在，不过⽬前看来，⾄少会有⼀次停⽕延⻓。唯⼀的问题是，股
市是否已经将这⼀结果定价。

### Page 3

5 ⽉份，美股市场表现在多个维度创下历史纪录或罕⻅⾥程碑。
标普 500 涨逾 5% ，并以历史新⾼⽉收盘价收官。据彭博策略师 Cameron Crise ，连续两个⽉涨幅
超过 5% 且均以历史新⾼⽉收盘收官，⾃ 1928 年以来仅发⽣过⼋次，本世纪此前只有 2020 年⼀
次。
分析认为，这两次以及当前的市场⾛势，都代表着从某种冲击中复苏。例如 1998 年 12 ⽉（⻓期
资本管理公司破产）、 2020 年（新冠冲击后），以及本次（伊朗战争冲击后）。
从板块表现看，科技股 5 ⽉⼤涨 19% ，主导全⽉⾏情；能源和公⽤事业板块跌幅均超 5% ，成为
最⼤拖累。

### Page 4

半导体板块在 4 ⽉暴涨 39% 后， 5 ⽉再涨 22% 。
Anthropic AI ⽣态系统在本⽉持续显著跑赢 OpenAI ⽣态系统。
LPL Financial 的 Adam Turnquist 指出，在地缘政治缓和与持续的企业盈利动能双重⽀撑下，股
市的强势有其基本⾯依据。
Bowersock Capital Partners 的 Emily Bowersock Hill 亦表⽰：

### Page 5

周五美债市场延续周内⾛势， 10 年期美债收益率当⽇下⾏ 1.4 个基点⾄ 4.441% ，已连续四个交易
⽇下⾏。 2 年期收益率下跌 2.9 个基点⾄ 3.996% 。
花旗利率策略师 Raghav Datla 表⽰：
本周，美债录得⾃美伊战争爆发以来最佳周表现，与⽉初债券因战争通胀担忧⽽⼤幅抛售形成
鲜明反转。停⽕谈判进展是这⼀转变的直接驱动⼒。
WTI 原油当⽇下跌 1.73% ，收报每桶 87.36 美元；布伦特原油收报 92.05 美元，当⽇跌 1.77% 。
AI 基础设施热潮持续屏蔽地缘政治⼲扰的负⾯影响，只要盈利增⻓持续，股价就有上涨空间。
很明显，他们将在未来⼀到两周内达成协议。这给市场提供了信⼼ —— 油价⾛低可能不会对核⼼
通胀产⽣⼆阶传导效应。

### Page 6

油价本周延续跌势， WTI 已连续两周⾛低，⼏乎每⽇均有 " 协议接近达成 " 的消息标题持续压制原
油期货。 Baird 投资策略分析师 Ross Mayfield 表⽰：
5 ⽉油市经历了清晰的三段式演变：
尽管如此，分析⼈⼠强调，在战争真正结束、海峡恢复正常通⾏之前，全球原油库存每天仍将
持续消耗约 1000 ⾄ 1400 万桶，实物市场基本⾯依然偏紧。
如果谅解备忘录获得特朗普批准，霍尔⽊兹海峡真正重开 60 天 ……60 天应该⾜够时间来达成⼀
项更实质性的协议。
⽉初（ 5 ⽉ 1 ⽇⾄ 6 ⽇）：油价从 4 年⾼位附近⼩幅回落，但布伦特⼀度在 OPEC+ 宣布⼩幅增产
及航运袭击事件刺激下飙升⾄约 114 美元，随后在美伊去紧张化信号出现后骤跌⾄ 101 ⾄ 106
美元区间。
⽉中（ 5 ⽉ 7 ⽇⾄ 20 ⽇）：油价随停⽕破裂与斡旋进展交替震荡，霍尔⽊兹海峡持续封锁维持
了较⾼⻛险溢价。
⽉末（ 5 ⽉ 21 ⽇⾄ 29 ⽇）：在美伊达成原则性协议以重开海峡的报道带动下，布伦特⼀度跌⾄

93 ⾄ 100 美元低位， WTI 触及 88 ⾄ 92 美元，布伦特约收于 92 美元附近。

### Page 7

油价在停⽕预期下的下跌，更多反映的是对未来供应恢复的定价，⽽⾮当前供需格局的根本改
变。
5 ⽉美元⼩幅⾛强，⻩⾦连续第三个⽉⼩幅下跌，⽉末⻩⾦报收于约 4546 美元，但周五伴随停⽕
乐观情绪升温，贵⾦属出现强劲买盘，⽩银也借此翻红。
⽐特币 ETF 创纪录连续净流出，拖累价格跌⾄ 7.2 万美元附近，⽉末在 100 ⽇移动平均线附近获
得⽀撑。
周五，微软收涨超 5.4% ， 5 ⽉份⾕歌 A 涨 21.6% 。科技⾏业 ETF 收涨超 2.2% ，领跑美股⾏业
ETF ， 5 ⽉半导体 ETF 累涨超 66% 。标普连涨九周，创 2023 年 12 ⽉以来最⻓连涨纪录。
美股基准股指：
标普 500 指数收涨 0.22% ，报 7580.06 点。本周累涨 1.80% 。
道琼斯⼯业平均指数收涨 0.72% ，报 51032.46 点。本周累涨 1.49% 。
纳指收涨 0.20% ，报 26972.62 点。本周累涨 2.58% 。
罗素 2000 指数收跌 0.59% ，报 2919.34 点。本周累涨 2.67% 。

### Page 8

意⼤利股市收涨超 0.4% ， 5 ⽉德国股指涨超 3.4% 、英国军⼯ ETF 累涨超 12.6% 。
美股⾏业 ETF ：
科技⾏业 ETF 收涨 2.23% ，全球科技股指数 ETF 、⽹络股指数 ETF ⾄少涨 1.61% ，半导体 ETF
则收跌 0.15% ，可选消费 ETF 跌 0.97% ，能源业 ETF 跌 1.11% 。
1-5 ⽉，半导体 ETF 累涨 66.31% ，全球科技股指数 ETF 、科技⾏业 ETF 、能源业 ETF ⾄少涨
26.79% ，医疗业 ETF 则累跌 3.05% ，⾦融业 ETF 跌 5.34% 。
（ 5 ⽉ 29 ⽇  美股各⾏业板块 ETF ）
科技七巨头：
美国科技股七巨头（ Magnificent 7 ）指数跌 0.31% ，报 227.26 点，本周（四个交易⽇）累计
上涨 1.23% ， 5 ⽉份累涨 6.71% 。
5 ⽉份，⾕歌 A 累计上涨 21.60% ，亚⻢逊涨 17.25% ，苹果涨 15% ，英伟达涨 13.22% ，特斯拉

累跌 3.10% ， Meta 跌 4.10% ，微软跌 6.49% 。
芯⽚股：
费城半导体指数收平，报 12829.38 点。
AMD 累涨 140.99% ，台积电涨 38% 。⾼通累计上涨 47.69% ，博通涨 29.36% 。
中概股：
纳斯达克⾦⻰中国指数⼤致收平， 5 ⽉份累跌 4.8% 。
热⻔中概股⾥，美团收涨 3.9% ，百度涨 2.4% ，拼多多涨 1.8% ，阿⾥跌 1.4% ，⼩⽶跌 2.4% ，
理想跌 3.3% ，⽇⽉光半导体跌 5.6% 。
其他个股：
礼来涨 3.17% ，伯克希尔哈撒⻙ B 类股跌 5.60% 。
甲⻣⽂涨 16.55% ，奈⻜跌 8.26% ， Adobe 跌 25.94% ， Salesforce 跌 27.68% 。
蓝⾊起源 “New Glenn” 爆炸带崩太空股， ASTS 暴跌超 14% 。

### Page 9

布伦特原油期货 5 ⽉跌超 16% 。美国 CFTC 持仓报告显⽰， 5 ⽉ 26 ⽇当周，投机者所持 NYMEX
WTI 原油净多头头⼨减少 23,012 ⼿合约，⾄ 115,792 ⼿合约，创 12 周新低。
泛欧股指：
欧洲 STOXX 600 指数收涨 0.14% ，报 626.00 点，本周累涨 0.14% ， 5 ⽉份累计上涨 2.41% 。
欧元区 STOXX 50 指数收跌 0.08% ，报 6050.54 点，本周累涨 0.52% ， 5 ⽉份累计上涨 2.87% 。
各国股指：
德国 DAX 30 指数收涨 0.05% ，报 25104.70 点， 5 ⽉份累计上涨 3.44% 。
法国 CAC 40 指数收跌 0.07% ，报 8183.34 点， 5 ⽉份累涨 0.92% 。
英国富时 100 指数收跌 0.16% ，报 10409.28 点， 5 ⽉份累涨 0.36% 。
（ 5 ⽉ 29 ⽇  欧美主要股指表现）
原油：
WTI 7 ⽉原油期货收跌 1.54 美元，跌幅 1.73% ，报 87.36 美元 / 桶， 5 ⽉份累跌超 11.88% 。

（ WTI 原油期货）
布伦特 7 ⽉原油期货收跌 1.66 美元，跌幅 1.77% ，报 92.05 美元 / 桶， 5 ⽉份累跌 16.62% 。

### Page 10

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
1134 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
8 条评论
中东 Abu Dhabi Murban 原油期货跌 1.69% ，报 92.50 美元 / 桶，本周累跌 9.50% ， 5 ⽉份累跌
14.37% 。
天然⽓：
NYMEX 6 ⽉天然⽓期货收报 3.29 美元 / 百万英热单位。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
夏天6 ⼩时前中国浙江省
1  回复
⼤ A 亏的裤衩都没有了，我就买了⼀点纳指是红的，以后就买纳指就对了
MobileUser50168 ⼩时前中国重庆
0  回复
⼤ A 这种不正规的，就该关⻔
MobileUser937416 ⼩时前中国上海
0  回复
60 天，调停书
嘶16 ⼩时前中国上海
1  回复
⼜双叕停⽕了？有完没完啊
⻅闻⽤⼾17 ⼩时前中国河南省
0  回复

特朗普⼜发财了 😂

---
## Document 538: 积极防御！美银：当前市场呈现泡沫末期特征

Source PDF: all report pdf/积极防御！美银：当前市场呈现泡沫末期特征.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-05-30
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

美银表⽰，其⽜熊指标虽回落⾄ 9.4 但仍处 “ 极度看涨 ” 区间，市场呈现泡沫后期特征。⽬前
资⾦正从科技七巨头、⽐特币等 “AI 崇拜 ” 资产，向⽩银、⼯业⾦属及⼩盘价值股等实体经济
复苏板块轮动。美银建议 2026 年采取防御策略，并看好新兴市场接棒下⼀轮⻓期⽜市。
摘要：
全球⾦融市场正处于极端看涨情绪与宏观主线切换的交汇点，资产价格的结构性轮动已然开
启。据追⻛交易台消息，美国银⾏全球研究部最新发布的报告显⽰，当前市场呈现出典型的泡
沫后期特征，投资者需从对⼈⼯智能的盲⽬狂热中抽⾝，转向积极防御的投资策略。
最新数据显⽰，美国银⾏的核⼼反向指标 “ ⽜熊指标 ” （ Bull & Bear Indicator ）⽬前回落⾄ 9.4 ，但
依然深处 “ 极度看涨 ” 区间，这意味着⾃去年 12 ⽉中旬以来的⻛险资产 “ 卖出 ” 信号依然有效。尽管
单周仍有⾼达 463 亿美元的资⾦⼤规模抄底流⼊全球股市，但市场内部分化加剧，从 “AI 崇拜 ”
向 “AI 贫乏 ” 的资⾦轮动已经出现初步迹象。

这种轮动对市场的影响正直接体现在资产价格表现上。华尔街财富热潮的代表性资产开始显现
疲态，科技七巨头（ Magnificent 7 ）和⽐特币等前期热⻔资产明显跑输⼤盘，⽽受惠于实体经
济复苏的资产如⽩银，区域性银⾏以及⼯业⾦属则表现强劲。美银警告称，⼀旦出现 AI 云服务
巨头削减资本开⽀的公告，将成为全⾯逆转这⼀趋势的最直接催化剂。
⾯对复杂多变的市场环境与估值压⼒，美银策略师  Michael Hartnett 建议投资者在 2026 年采取
更具防御性和前瞻性的资产配置。报告指出，⻓久期美国国债是当前最佳的⻛险对冲⼯具，⽽
从⻓期来看，新兴市场与⼩盘价值股将接棒⼤型科技股，引领下⼀轮⻓期⽜市。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

情绪指标极度贪婪，科技泡沫⾯临资本开⽀考验
尽管全球股市持续吸引资⾦流⼊，但美银的流动性指标显⽰出市场正在发⽣微妙变化。
美国银⾏私⼈银⾏客⼾在⼆⽉份⾸周创下了过去 14 年来最⼤规模的现⾦和中期国债净流出，资
⾦转⽽涌⼊市政债券，投资级债券以及⽇本股票 ETF 。然⽽，在整体资⾦狂欢的表象下，科技股
泡沫正⾯临基本⾯的严峻考验。
报告指出，⼀季度印度科技板块已经成为⾸个因 AI 冲击⽽受损的领域。当前⽀撑 AI 军备竞赛的成
本正急剧攀升，过去 5 个⽉内，⼤型云服务商（ Hyperscalers ）的债券发⾏量⾼达 1700 亿美元，
远超 2020 ⾄ 2024 年间年均 300 亿美元的⽔平，且其信⽤利差正在不断⾛阔。
Michael Hartnett 强调，过度拥挤的交易往往会在头⼨调整时耗尽动能，⼀旦超⼤型科技企业宣
布削减资本开⽀，科技股将⾯临重⼤的估值修正⻛险。

### Page 3

资⾦加速轮动，⻓债成为最佳⻛险对冲⼯具
在固定收益市场⽅⾯，资⾦连续 42 周流⼊债券市场，年初⾄今累计流⼊达 254 亿美元。在股市估
值⾼企的背景下，债券的避险属性再次凸显。
年初⾄今，零息国债（ ZROZ ）上涨了 4% ，⽽纳斯达克 100 指数则下跌了 2% 。美银分析认为，
如果⼤型⾦融股的下⾏引发信⽤利差整体⾛阔，债券尤其是⻓期国债，将是 2026 年最可靠的⻛
险对冲⼯具。
宏观政策层⾯上，美联储的降息周期可能已经结束，这意味着收益率曲线的陡峭化交易也已接
近尾声。考虑到美国政府需要在选举年解决住房与⽣活成本可负担性问题，以及 AI 技术带来的通
缩效应加速，国债收益率存在向下回归的动⼒。
尽管美国国家债务以每 100 天增加 1 万亿美元的速度膨胀，且 “ 除债券外买⼊⼀切 ” 仍是 2020 年代
的⻓期投资主题，但在 2025 ⾄ 2026 年的通胀间歇期，做多政府债券仍是美银⾸选的防御性敞
⼝。
宏观主线切换，⼤盘成⻓股向⼩盘价值股让位
过去 50 年的历史经验表明，重⼤的政治，地缘与⾦融事件总是会引发资产市场领导地位的更

迭。
当前，美国政策正逐渐转向关注实体经济与⽣活成本，这将深刻影响未来的资产表现。⾃美联
储降息以及政策重⼼转移以来，市场赢家主要集中在实体经济通胀繁荣的敞⼝上，例如⽩银，
韩国 KOSPI 指数，材料和能源板块；⽽华尔街财富繁荣的敞⼝则表现落后。

### Page 4

美银指出，资本市场正在经历⼀个重⼤的⻓期转折点。随着经济重⼼从服务业转向制造业，实
体经济中的⼩盘股将⽐华尔街的⼤盘股迎来更好的发展趋势。资⾦流向也印证了这⼀点，近期
美国⼩盘股迎来了过去 8 周以来的最⼤单周资⾦流⼊。
“ 除美元外⼀切 ” 交易兴起，新兴市场将迎⻓期⽜市
在全球格局重塑的背景下， “ 美国例外论 ” 正在向全球再平衡转变。
美国政府维持经济过热的政策导向，正催⽣出新的 “ 除美元外⼀切 ” （ Anything But Dollar ）交易主
线。美银预测，下⼀轮⻓期⽜市的领导者将是国际股票，尤其是新兴市场股票。逻辑在于， AI 的
发展需要⼤量消耗⼤宗商品，⽽新兴市场正是⼤宗商品的主要⽣产国。
数据层⾯，韩国股市刚刚创下了⾃ 2002 年以来的创纪录四周资⾦净流⼊（ 143 亿美元）。
同时，⽇元与⽇经指数的价格相关性⾃ 2005 年以来⾸次转正，这种 “ 汇率与股市双涨 ” 的特征是⻓
期⽜市的经典标志。但美银也警告称，短期内⽇元不能出现⽆序飙升（例如跌破 145 ），否则将
冲击全球流动性并引发全球范围内的去杠杆⻛险。

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
以上精彩内容来⾃追⻛交易台。
更详细的解读，包括实时解读、⼀线研究等内容，请加⼊【追⻛交易台 ▪ 年度会员】

### Page 6

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
365 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
2 条评论
正在加载
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 610: 金融・経済見通し

Source PDF: all report pdf/金融・経済見通し.pdf
Report source: Sony FG
Date: 2026-05-13
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026/5/13
1
issue date 2026/5/13
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社
金融市場調査部ソニーフィナンシャルグループ(株)
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
実質GDP 0.5 2.0 1.6 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
コアPCEデフレータ 2.9 3.1 3.2 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.2 3.1 2.4
実質GDP 1.3 2.0 0.1 0.3 0.6 0.8 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.7
コアCPI 2.8 1.8 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 2.3 2.1
実質GDP 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.2 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.5 0.7 1.2
CPI 2.1 2.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 2.7 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.0 2.8 2.0

実質GDP 4.5 5.0 4.6 4.7 4.7 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.7 4.4
CPI 0.6 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9
注: 実質GDPは、米国・日本・ユーロ圏は前期比年率、中国は前年比。物価は前年比。日本のコアCPIは消費増税の影響除く
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
政策金利 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.25～3.50 3.25～3.50 3.25～3.50 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.75～4.00 3.75～4.00 3.25～3.50 3.75～4.00
10年債利回り 4.17 4.32 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.55 4.60 4.60 4.65 4.50 4.60
政策金利 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 1.25 1.25 1.50 1.50 1.75 1.75 1.25 1.75

10年債利回り 2.07 2.35 2.50 2.51 2.53 2.55 2.57 2.59 2.60 2.60 2.53 2.60
政策金利 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00
独10年債利回り 2.85 3.04 3.10 3.15 3.20 3.25 3.25 3.30 3.30 3.35 3.20 3.30
中国 政策金利 3.00 3.00 2.90 2.90 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
米ドル ドル円 156 157 154 156 158 160 160 160 160 160 158 160
ユーロ円 183 182 179 178 177 176 173 176 179 182 177 179

ユーロドル 1.17 1.16 1.16 1.14 1.12 1.10 1.08 1.10 1.12 1.14 1.12 1.12
ポンド円 211 207 203 200 198 195 190 197 202 208 198 202
ポンドドル 1.35 1.32 1.32 1.28 1.25 1.22 1.19 1.23 1.26 1.30 1.25 1.26
豪ドル円 103 113 111 115 120 115 117 118 120 122 120 120
豪ドル米ドル 0.66 0.72 0.72 0.74 0.76 0.72 0.73 0.74 0.75 0.76 0.76 0.75
2027年
2027年
2027年
2026年
2026年
2026年
2026年 2027年
2026年 2027年
2026年 2027年2025年
2025年
注:全て期末値　　出所：SFGI
（％）
米国
日本
米国
日本
ユーロ圏
豪ドル
ユーロ
ポンド
注: 政策金利は、米国がFF金利、日本が政策金利残高への適用金利、ユーロ圏は預金ファシリティ金利、中国は貸出基準金利。全て期末値

ユーロ圏
経
済
見
通
し
金
利
見
通
し
中国
（％）
為
替
見
通
し
2025年

### Page 2

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ 金融市場調査部・研究員紹介
尾河 眞樹 （おがわ まき）
執行役員（金融市場調査部担当） チーフアナリスト
ファースト・シカゴ銀行、JPモルガン・チェース銀行などの為替ディーラーを経て、ソニー財務部にて為替リスクヘッジと市場調査に従事。その後シティバンク銀行（現SMBC
信託銀行） で個人金融部門の投資調査企画部長として 、金融市場の調査・ 分析を担当。2016年8月より当社執行役員。 テレビ東京 「Newsモーニングサテライト 」、日経
CNBCなどにレギュラー出演し、金融市場の解説を行っている。主な著書に『為替ってこんなに面白い！（2024年幻冬舎新書）』、『〈最新版〉本当にわかる為替相場（2023年
日本実業出版社）』などがある。ソニー銀行株式会社取締役、ウェルスナビ株式会社顧問。人生投資アカデミー® 学長。
井上 哲也 （いのうえ てつや）
金融市場調査部 シニアフェロー エグゼクティブエコノミスト
日本銀行で主として国際金融市場やそれに関する政策、2回の役員秘書（福井副総裁、植田審議委員）、IT革命の影響に関する研究等を行った後、野村総合研究所で主

要国の金融政策、デジタル通貨、地域金融の活性化等に関する調査を行い、成果を多数の報告書等の形で公表。2026年4月より現職。テレビ出演や経済メディアへの寄
稿を行っているほか、主な著書に『異次元緩和（2013年日経BP）』、『デジタル円（2020年日経BP）』、『CBDCとステーブルコインの衝撃（2026年日経BP）』がある。1985年東
京大学経済学部卒、1992年イェール大学大学院経済学修士。
渡辺 浩志 （わたなべ ひろし）
金融市場調査部長 チーフエコノミスト
1999年に大和総研に入社し、経済調査部にてエコノミストとしてのキャリアをスタート。2006年～2008年は内閣府政策統括官室（経済財政分析・総括担当）へ出向し、『経済
財政白書』等の執筆を行う。2011年からはSMBC日興証券金融経済調査部および株式調査部にて機関投資家向けの経済分析・情報発信に従事。2017年1月より当社。内
外のマクロ経済についての調査・分析業務を担当。ロジカルかつデータの裏付けを重視した分析を行っている。

石川 久美子 （いしかわ くみこ）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
森本 淳太郎 （もりもと じゅんたろう）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
みずほフィナンシャルグループにて企画業務、法人営業などを経験した後、2019年8月より現職。外国為替市場の調査・分析業務、特にユーロやポンド、スイスフランなどの
欧州通貨を専門に担当。テレビ東京「Newsモーニングサテライト」、TOKYO MX 「Stock Voice 東京マーケットワイド」、日経CNBC「朝エクスプレス」「GINZA CROSSING Talk
マーケットニュース」などにレギュラー出演し、金融市場の解説を行っている。2013年東京大学経済学部卒。
宮嶋 貴之 （みやじま たかゆき）
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
2009年にみずほ総合研究所（当時）入社以来、一貫してエコノミストとしてマクロ経済調査を担当。 2011年～2013年は内閣府（経済財政分析担当）へ出向 。官庁エコノミスト
として『経済財政白書』、『月例経済報告』等を担当。2021年4月より現職。2025年から景気循環学会・ 理事。主な著書（全て共著）は、『TPP-日台加盟の影響と展望』 （国立

台湾大学出版中心）、『激震 原油安経済』（日経BP）。日本経済・債券市場、中国などのアジア情勢が専門、セクターは不動産、観光、半導体等を分析。
商品先物専門紙での貴金属および外国為替担当の編集記者を経て、2009年4月に外為どっとコムに入社し、外為どっとコム総合研究所の立ち上げに参画。同年6月から同社研
究員として、外国為替相場について調査・分析を行う。2016年11月より現職。外国為替市場に関するレポート執筆の他、テレビ東京「Newsモーニングサテライト」など多数のメディ
アに出演し 、金融市場の解説を行う 。資源国 ・新興国通貨に強い 。著書に 『円安はいつまで続くのか 為替で世界を読む （2025年マイナビ新書 ）』がある 。Xでの情報発信
（@KumiIshikawa_FX）も行っている。

### Page 3

く、特定の金融商品の推奨や売買申し込み、投資の勧誘等を目的としたものでもありません。
 本レポートに掲載された内容は、本レポートの発行時点における投資環境やこれに関する当社の見解や予測を紹介するものであり 、その内容は変更又は修正されることがありますが、当社はかかる変更等を行い又はその変更等の
内容を報告する義務を負わないものといたします。本レポートに記載された情報は、公的に入手可能な情報ですが、当社がその正確性・信頼性・完全性・妥当性等を保証するものではありません。本レポート中のグラフ、数値等は将来
の予測値を含むものであり、実際と異なる場合があります。
 本レポート中のいかなる内容も、将来の投資環境の変動等を保証するものではなく、かつ、将来の運用成果等を約束するものでもありません。かかる投資環境や相場の変動は、お客様に損失を与える可能性もございます。
 当社は、当社の子会社及び関連会社（以下、「グループ会社」といいます）に対しても本レポートに記載される内容を開示又は提供しており、かかるグループ会社が本レポートの内容を参考に投資決定を行う可能性もあれば、逆に、グ

 ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社は、 ソニー生命保険株式会社 、ソニー損害保険株式会社 、ソニー銀
行株式会社の３社を中核とする金融持株会社です。
 当社グループの各事業は、独自性のある事業モデルを構築し、合理的かつ利便性の高い商品・サービスを個
人のお客さまに提供しています。
 当社グループの基本情報、グループ各社の事業内容などにつきましては、当社ホームページでご覧いただけ
ます。
https://www.sonyfg.co.jp
介護事業
銀行事業
損害保険事業
生命保険事業
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
（ベンチャーキャピタル事業)
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ (株)

---
## Document 612: 鉱工業生産26年4月－市場予想を上回り増産となったが、中東情勢悪化による下押し圧力が続く

Source PDF: all report pdf/鉱工業生産26年4月－市場予想を上回り増産となったが、中東情勢悪化による下押し圧力が続く.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-05-29
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

１．4 月の生産は市場予想を上回る 
経済産業省が 5 月 29 日に公表した鉱工業指数によると、26 年 4 月の鉱工業生産指数は前月比
0.8％（3 月：同▲0.4％)と 3 ヵ月ぶりに上昇し、事前の市場予想（QUICK 集計：前月比▲0.9％、
当社予想は同▲0.4％）を上回る結果となった。出荷指数は前月比1.5％と 3 ヵ月ぶりの上昇、 在庫
指数は前月比▲0.2％と2 ヵ月連続の低下となった。 
4 月の生産を業種別にみると、中東情勢悪化の影
響で無機・有機化学 （3 月：前月比▲8.6％→4 月：
同▲1.8％） 、 石油 ・ 石炭製品 （3 月 ： 前月比▲7.7％
→4 月：同▲3.4％）は前月に続き落ち込んだが、
堅調な AI 関連需要を背景に汎用・業務用機械（前
月比 1.6％） 、電気・情報通信機械（同3.5％） 、電
子部品・デバイス （同1.7％） が増加したことがそ
れをカバーした。鉱工業生産の 15 業種中、7 業種
が上昇、8 業種が低下した。 
中東情勢悪化の影響で3 月に急速に落ち込んだエチレン （3 月：前月比▲21.1％→4 月 ： 同7.5％）
は持ち直したが、 ナフサ （3 月：前月比▲21.4％→4 月 ： 同▲2.7％）は小幅な低下となった。 また、
ナフサの出荷（3 月：前月比▲14.4％→4 月：同▲16.2％）は 2 ヵ月連続で前月比二桁の大幅低下
となった。

40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604
エチレンの生産・出荷・在庫
在庫 生産 出荷
（2020年=100）
（資料）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」 （年・月）

50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604
ナフサの生産・出荷・在庫
在庫 生産 出荷
（2020年=100）
（資料）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」 （年・月）

鉱工業生産 26 年 4 月－市場予想を上
回り増産となったが、中東情勢悪化による下
押し圧力が続く

2026-05-29 ニッセイ基礎研究所 
94
96
98
100
102
104
106
108
110
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604
生産 出荷 在庫
（注）生産の26年5、6月は製造工業生産予測指数で延長
鉱工業生産・出荷・在庫指数の推移
（資料）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」
（2020年=100)
(年・月）

### Page 2

２．中東情勢悪化の影響で先行きは下振れリスクが高い 
製造工業生産予測指数は、26 年 5 月が前月比
5.1％、6 月が同▲0.4％となった。生産計画の修
正状況を示す実現率（4 月） 、予測修正率（5 月）
はそれぞれ▲2.6％、0.2％であった。 
予測指数を業種別にみると、5 月は生産用機械
（前月比 16.0％） 、石油製品（同13.6％） 、輸送
機械（同 7.5％）が高い伸びとなっている。ただ
し、 石油製品の実現率は3 月 （▲9.4％） 、4 月 （▲
10.2％）と大幅なマイナスが続いており、実際の
生産は大きく下振れる可能性が高い。

26 年 4 月の生産指数を 5、6 月の予測指数で先延ばしすると、4-6 月期は前期比 3.1％となるが、
もともと実際の生産の伸びが計画を下回る傾向があることに加え、 中東情勢の影響で通常よりも下
振れ幅が大きくなる可能性がある。 
現時点では、 中東情勢悪化を受けた素材業種への下押し圧力を、グローバルなAI 関連需要を背景
とした加工業種の堅調が打ち消す形となっている。 しかし、中東情勢の混迷が長期化した場合には、
素材産業の悪化が加工業種へ波及し、生産全体が停滞するリスクが高まるだろう。

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。 
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604
資本財（除く輸送機械）
建設財
耐久消費財
非耐久消費財
財別の出荷動向(2020年=100）
(資料）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」 （年・月）
▲6%
▲4%
▲2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604
実現率
予測修正率
最近の実現率、予測修正率の推移
(資料）経済産業省「製造工業生産予測指数」 (年・月）

---
## Document 625: （最終版）電気・ガス代補助の物価への影響 ～CPIコアを▲0.5～▲0.6％Pt、前年比で▲0.2～▲0.3％Pt押し下げか～

Source PDF: all report pdf/（最終版）電気・ガス代補助の物価への影響 ～CPIコアを▲0.5～▲0.6％Pt、前年比で▲0.2～▲0.3％Pt押し下げか～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-05-26
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Economic Trends

2026 年 5 月 26 日

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が信ず
るに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告なく変更されることがあります。ま
た、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限りません。 
1/1 
（最終版）電気・ガス代補助の物価への影響 
～CPI コアを▲0.5～▲0.6％Pt、前年比で▲0.2～▲0.3％Pt 押し下げか～ 
 経済調査部 シニアエグゼクティブエコノミスト  新家 義貴 
（℡：050-5474-7490）

昨日作成したレポート（電気・ガス代補助の物価への影響と今後の課題 ～夏で終わらず、秋以
降の支援延長・拡大の可能性も～ | 新家 義貴 | 第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所）では、今夏に
実施される電気・ガス代補助による物価への影響を試算し、今後の展望と課題について述べた。
その時点では都市ガス代の補助額が不明であったため、昨夏と同水準の補助と仮定して試算して
いたが、本日、都市ガス代の補助額についても発表があったため、改めて試算を行う。 
今回決まった補助額は、電気料金について、家庭向けで１キロワットアワーあたり７月が3.5
円、８月が4.5 円、９月が3.5 円、都市ガス代について、１立方メートルあたり７月が14.0 円、
８月が 18.0 円、９月が14.0 円である。昨年夏の支援（電気料金：７月2.0 円、８月2.4 円、９
月 2.0 円、都市ガス代：７月が 8.0 円、８月が10.0 円、９月が8.0 円）から積み増されている。 
なお、今回の支出規模は電気・ガスを含めて5,135 億円、世帯あたりの負担軽減額は３か月合
計で 5,111 円になるとされている。前年夏の支援では、支出規模が2,881 億円、標準的な世帯の
負担軽減額が３か月合計で3,000 円程度だった。これと比べると、今夏の支援は規模が大きく拡
大する。 
消費者物価指数への影響を見る際には、26 年７～９月使用分の補助は26 年８～10 月のＣＰＩ
に影響する点に注意が必要である。電気代、ガス代のＣＰＩへの反映は「使用月」ではなく「請
求月」に基づくためである。 
今回の補助による影響をみると、補助が実施されないケースと比較して、ＣＰＩコアは26 年８
月に▲0.48％Pt、９月に▲0.62％Pt、10 月に▲0.48％Pt程度押し下げられると試算される。前年
夏の支援よりも補助額が拡充されるため、ＣＰＩの押し下げ効果も大きくなる。もっとも、前年
同月にも夏場の補助が実施されていたため、前年比で見た追加的な押し下げ効果は、補助がない
場合との比較よりも小さくなる。今回の補助が前年夏よりも大きいことを踏まえると、前年比ベ
ースでは、ＣＰＩコアを８月に▲0.2％Pt、９月に▲0.3％Pt、10 月に▲0.2％Pt程度押し下げるだ
ろう。 
（電気・ガス代補助の秋以降の展望や制度の課題については前掲レポート「電気・ガス代補助の
物価への影響と今後の課題 ～夏で終わらず、秋以降の支援延長・拡大の可能性も～ | 新家 義貴 
| 第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所」をご参照ください）
