# Financial Report Source 3

## 029_Merrill_Lynch_(Viewpoint)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICE
Viewpoint

===== Page 2 =====

2 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
The Short-term: Through the balance of the year, we believe there are:
Risks elevated (headlines, geopolitics, mid-term concerns, oil/gas prices)
Robust corporate earnings (positive revisions, operating leverage increasing)
Rotation across Equities (multiple leadership groups, increased non-U.S. allocation)
Resilient consumer (attractive asset price returns helping boomers while
decent wage gains support lower-income cohorts)

Conclusion: Headline risk, mid-term election uncertainty, and potential oil and gas
price pressures are likely to lead to slower growth, which could lead to another bout of
volatility, choppy trading and some consolidation. But we believe it’s still a buying-on-
weakness environment given the strong capital investment growth, resilient consumer
and robust earnings outlook into next year.
As developments shift from the short- and medium-term to the longer-term, we

continue to expect major transformations to unfold. The transformations are likely to
be supported by a supply-driven economic cycle around the world, which we expect to
be supportive of asset price reflation. In other words, a cycle that supports an equity
overweight based on robust profits, wide margins, rising productivity, a weaker U.S.
dollar, a reindustrialization, and the need to rebalance world trade and rebuild world
infrastructure. We maintain our Equity overweight, continue with a preference for a high

level of portfolio diversification, expect interest rates to remain locked in a range, and
profits to hit record highs in the intermediate term. We are buyers on weakness in the
equity markets, as our base and bull case for Equity positioning remain firm.
CIO INVESTMENT DASHBOARD AS OF MAY 5, 2026
While uncertainty surrounding the Middle East conflict persists, underlying fundamentals remain relatively solid. We still see the potential
for a new phase of economic and market growth powered by accelerating productivity, infrastructure investment, energy transformation,

and global shifts in defense and technology. Long-term investors should remain fully invested and consider episodic weakness as a
potential buying opportunity.
Current readings on the key drivers of Equities for investors to consider, with arrows representing the recent trend:
Earnings
Our U.S. Equity overweight remains supported by a strong earnings outlook. Earnings estimates for the S&P 500 Index
have remained resilient, with the index on track for double-digit earnings growth for 2026. On a global basis, higher oil

prices and potential supply chain issues have started to dampen earnings expectations, with the BofA Global Research
Global Earnings Revisions ratio slightly declining in April.
Valuations
On an absolute basis, U.S. equity market valuations increased last month. Relative discounts remain in areas like
Small-cap and Value. Discounts also exist overseas, including for Emerging Markets (EM), underscoring the importance
of incorporating all of these areas into diversified portfolios.

U.S. Macro
U.S. economic data remains broadly healthy, with inflation-adjusted GDP increasing by an annualized 2% in Q1. In
2026, we anticipate above-average growth driven by supportive fiscal policy and resilient consumption and business
investment, bolstering corporate earnings growth.
Global Growth
In 2026, we anticipate global real GDP growth of 3.1%, though the outlook remains relatively fragile amid ongoing
geopolitical uncertainty. Regionally, the impact of the Middle East war may weigh on euro area growth, expected at

0.6%. In China, recent firmer-than-expected economic data suggests some traction from incremental stimulus efforts,
which are expected to remain modest. BofA Global Research forecasts 4.5% growth, reflecting relative strength
increasingly underpinned by innovative segments. While we remain watchful over energy price volatility affecting
regions such as Asia, improving fundamentals in EM longer term may help sustain their appeal as a portfolio diversifier.

U.S. Monetary
Policy / Inflation
The Fed interest rate policy remains in a 3.50% to 3.75% range. There was no change to this rate at the April 29 FOMC
meeting as policymakers maintained a firm pause. BofA Global Research sees the potential for two cuts later in the
year. Uncertainty about the impact of the war on core inflation remains elevated. Longer-term, easier monetary policy
should be supportive of diversified Equity portfolios.
R

===== Page 3 =====

3 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
Fiscal Policy
Fiscal stimulus, dubbed the One Big Beautiful Bill Act (OBBBA), includes new tax breaks, among other elements. This
added stimulus throughout the year should support U.S. GDP growth through stronger consumption, investment and
productivity, helping support margins and earnings and ultimately providing tailwinds for Equities.
Corporate Credit
While credit spreads for Investment-grade (IG) and High Yield (HY) corporate bonds are off their year-to-date (YTD)

lows, they remain near multi-decade tights, reflecting limited near-term market concern over an economic slowdown.
We believe that neutral positioning across these segments in low-tax all-Fixed Income portfolios is appropriate.
Yield Curve
Treasury yields were volatile in April, shifting modestly higher across the curve with some bear flattening as the front
end repriced higher amid pared back market expectations for Fed rate cuts and ongoing geopolitical risks. The curve

however remains positively sloped across all maturities. Rates appear fairly priced, providing good diversification
benefits for multi-asset class portfolios and reasonable income overall.
Technical
Indicators
The S&P 500 has recovered above its 50-day and 200-day moving averages, supporting its recent rally and additional
new all-time highs. However, relative strength indicators show the index hovering near overbought conditions,
potentially creating near-term pressures. Breadth indicators continue to show narrow conditions, in line with recent

market volatility.
Investor
Sentiment
Sentiment indicators remain mixed. The latest American Association of Individual Investors (AAII) reading showed
bears outnumbered bulls following the first positive reading in two months in the previous week. Meanwhile, the
BofA Bull & Bear Indicator remains unchanged at 6.6, below its 8.0 sell signal.
Source: Chief Investment Office. Gradient slides go from positive green, yellow neutral and negative red factors to ISC views.

EQUITIES
We are overweight Equities. While crosscurrents in the economic landscape persist,
positive global growth, better earnings trends, and increased innovation remain
supportive for global Equities. We maintain an Equity overweight relative to our
strategic targets.
We are overweight U.S. Equities. The U.S. remains our preferred Equity region.
Despite recent uncertainty, the U.S. is still among the strongest and most innovative
economies in the world. Valuations increased in April as the S&P 500 rebounded from

the brink of correction territory to reach a new all-time high above 7,000. Earnings
growth remains supportive, with the S&P 500 on track for its sixth consecutive quarter
of double-digit year-over-year (YoY) earnings-per-share (EPS) growth for Q1 2026.
Diversification across and within Equities has been valuable this year amid shifting
market leadership. Large-caps continue to exhibit strong fundamentals, solid earnings
growth, and the ability to generate substantial free cash flow (FCF). Small-caps have

seen strong performance year-to-date and may continue to benefit from a lower interest
rate environment, a more constructive earnings outlook, and increased capital markets
activity in 2026, though persistently elevated energy prices could present headwinds.
We emphasize the importance of incorporating both Large-caps and Small-caps into
strategic portfolios.
We view AI investment and deployment themes as fundamentally intact and believe
secular tailwinds related to innovation will continue to support Growth over the long

term. However, we continue to emphasize the importance of avoiding overexposure
to any one area of the market. Value-oriented Equities continue to trade at a relative
valuation discount and may offer attractive defensive characteristics against a backdrop
of elevated uncertainty. We maintain a barbell approach between Large-cap Value and
Growth in portfolios as market dynamics evolve.
From a sector perspective, we continue to recommend diversification across Equity

sectors given elevated volatility and uncertainty. Importantly, we continue to suggest
overweight exposure to Industrials, Consumer Discretionary, and Financials. Industrials
are overweight as capital expenditures (capex) budgets continue to grow, 100% bonus
EQUITY WATCH LIST
• Middle East conflict and the impact on
oil prices
• Monetary policy outlook and shifting
expectations for interest rates
• The outlook for AI investment and
competition
• Progression of global earnings

estimates
• Evolving dynamics within Private Credit
• Lingering tariff uncertainty
RISK CONSIDERATIONS
• Protracted conflict in the Middle East
• Escalation in AI concerns due to an
earnings miss, supply shock, or tighter
credit conditions
• Potential for a pullback in high-income
consumer spending
• Potential for slower-than-expected
labor market stabilization
• Global fiscal concerns, as well as sticky
inflation and its potential impact on the
Fed’s easing cycle

• Geopolitical uncertainty and heightened
global protectionism measures

===== Page 4 =====

4 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
depreciation has been enacted again, and AI-oriented infrastructure plans are not
slowing. The consumer remains resilient despite the volatility as spending and wages
continue to grow. The overall outlook for Financials remains positive, especially for banks
with tailwinds from deregulation, earnings growth, and reasonable valuations, though
the potential for fewer interest rate cuts could present headwinds. We are neutral

Information Technology (IT), Energy, Materials, Utilities, and Healthcare. IT has positive
longer-term thematic exposure, but there are near-term concerns on positioning. The
outlook for the Energy sector has improved as damaged energy infrastructure in the
Middle East and transportation bottlenecks support higher energy prices than before the
conflict. We are neutral Materials on improved pricing and demand for commodities in
general. Utilities relative valuations have moved sharply higher and no longer trade at a

discount to the market. We have underweight exposure to Communication Services, Real
Estate (RE), and Consumer Staples on weaker growth expectations in those sectors.
We are slightly overweight Emerging Market Equities. Energy supply risks
across large Asian net importers are partially offset by large China stockpiles and
index exposure to natural resource-producing markets. The Asia-Pacific market now
constitutes close to 80% of total EM market capitalization, and we view the region as a

major beneficiary of expected growth in IT-related capital spending and the expanding
adoption of AI. Asian markets, in particular, also appear well positioned to benefit from
appreciation of undervalued exchange rates. Smaller markets in Central and Eastern
Europe should benefit from increased European Union (EU) fiscal outlays, including
higher EU defense and infrastructure spending. The structural rise in EM consumer
spending remains a big reason why we believe investors should consider maintaining a

strategic allocation to EM Equities as appropriate. The emerging world now constitutes
around 40% of global personal consumption expenditure (PCE), according to the United
Nations, and ongoing convergence with developed economies should support GDP
growth and corporate earnings over the longer-term. We favor active management
1
when investing in EM, as fundamentals differ across countries based on fiscal capacity,
external funding needs, corporate governance and other factors.

We are slightly underweight International Developed Equities. European markets
should benefit from higher fiscal outlays in defense and infrastructure but remain
among the least exposed globally to IT-related market segments and are therefore
likely to experience limited gains on a relative basis from AI infrastructure spending.
Manufacturing-led EU economies also remain at risk from growing competition from
China in key industries and higher industrial energy costs. In the UK, higher business taxes

represent a headwind for the corporate sector. Sustained positive inflation and corporate
reforms remain fundamental tailwinds for Japan, with large fiscal expansion as an
additional support despite exposure to high energy prices. While we are less constructive
on International Developed Equities, we believe long-term investors should maintain
some strategic exposure, as appropriate, given that they trade at a discount relative to
U.S. Equities, contain more of a balance between Value and Growth sectors, can offer

attractive dividend yields and provide diversification for mega-cap Technology stocks.
FIXED INCOME
We are slightly underweight Fixed Income within multi-asset class portfolios.
We are constructive on Fixed Income overall but are underweight to fund our Equity
overweight. We are neutral across Fixed Income sectors in all-Fixed Income low-tax-
sensitivity portfolios given our constructive economic view, supported by stable spread
levels even in the midst of ongoing geopolitical developments. In all-Fixed Income

high-tax-sensitivity portfolios, we prefer IG and HY Tax-Exempt relative to IG Taxable,
particularly now that tax-exempt valuations have cheapened, as expected, from extremely
rich levels earlier in the year.
1 Active management seeks to outperform benchmarks through active investment decisions such as asset allocation and
investment selection.
Sector Valuations
10 15 20 25 30 35
Forward Price-to-Earnings (P/E) for S&P 500 Sectors
S&P 500
Information

Technology
Consumer
Discretionary
Healthcare
Communication
Services
Financials
Industrials
Energy
Real Estate
Consumer Staples
Materials
Utilities
Current Fwd P/E 15-Year Average
Source: Bloomberg as of May 1, 2026. Please refer to index
definitions at the end of this report. It is not possible to
invest directly in an index.
FIXED INCOME WATCH LIST
• Path of government spending and
uncertainty about fiscal policies
including tariffs
• U.S. short-term funding markets, with

the interplay of quantitative tightening
and drawdown of Treasury General
Account
• Trend and level of U.S. nominal and real
rates and inflation
• Fed and global central bank activity
• Global economic growth, especially with
trade and geopolitical concerns
• Credit spreads and Muni/Treasury ratios
RISK CONSIDERATIONS
• Resilient or accelerating inflation
• Change in Fed policy stance
• Slowing economic growth or confidence
based on uncertainty

===== Page 5 =====

5 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
In April, the Fed decided to hold rates steady with four officials dissenting against the
official decision—the most since 1992. With hawkish and dovish dissents, we expect
a dispersion of potential outcomes with accompanying volatility. Overall, we believe
the Fed is focused on the cooling (yet stabilizing) labor market along with incremental
costs passed onto the consumer. We continue to expect range-bound yields, given sticky

inflation and real GDP remaining near or above 2%.
We maintain a neutral duration stance, reinforced by the Fed’s decision and potential
changes to the FOMC. Current nominal and real yields provide reasonable compensation
for inflation and market risk; the U.S. is one of the cheapest developed-market sovereign
bond markets relative to inflation across the globe. Longer-term Fixed Income provides
meaningful returns relative to cash over longer time periods and therefore diversifies

equity risk with more stable income. We believe investors should move investment cash
to their strategic duration target.
In multi-asset class portfolios, we are slightly underweight U.S. Governments.
Real yields―that is to say, yields after expected inflation—are from 1.30% to 2.70%
across the curve, the higher end of the range since 2008. Yields substantially higher than
inflation are positive for investors.
In multi-asset class portfolios, we are slightly underweight U.S. Corporates and

High Yield, in favor of Equities. Our view reflects valuations that remain relatively
expensive amid recent technical pressures and persistent geopolitical risks, which are
partially offset by still compelling all-in yields. Despite a broader risk off tone across
markets during March, credit spreads proved resilient, retracing the majority of widening
in April. While spreads have moved off YTD tights, valuations continue to screen rich
relative to history, leaving limited scope for meaningful further compression. This lack of

upside potential is the primary factor preventing us from moving to a slightly overweight
stance, as spreads remain near multidecade tights.
That said, corporate fundamentals and earnings remain solid despite geopolitical
uncertainty. Revenue and earnings growth are healthy, margins have been resilient, and
gross leverage has remained stable even as capital expenditures increase. While demand
has moderated recently, we do not expect material outflows absent a more pronounced

deterioration in the macro backdrop. Increased issuance this year represents a modest
headwind, but one we view as manageable.
In multi-asset class portfolios, we remain slightly underweight U.S. Investment-
grade Tax Exempt and U.S. High Yield Tax Exempt. For highly tax-sensitive investors,
we maintain a preference for IG and HY tax-exempt securities. As expected, tax-exempt
munis cheapened markedly versus Treasury securities during March and early April due to

weaker technical conditions (lower redemptions and some pre-Tax Day selling). However,
munis remain one of the few tax-advantaged vehicles for high-income investors, and
now that we are past Tax Day and higher redemptions are expected beginning in May,
muni technicals have begun to strengthen again. We expect these stronger technical
conditions to persist through August.
We believe municipal credit quality will remain generally strong based on resilient state

and local government tax revenues and strong issuer balance sheets. However, we expect
idiosyncratic credit risks to emerge from time to time within the otherwise low-risk
state and local government and essential services subsectors, and certain already-
challenged municipal subsectors (e.g., higher education and not-for-profit healthcare)
will experience increasing pressures due to adverse demographic trends and less federal
government support.
Currently, we believe that munis maturing beyond 10 years are especially attractive, given

higher yields, cheaper valuations and a steeply sloped yield curve. We also like munis in
the mid-to-lower IG portion of the credit spectrum, although prudent credit selection is
important to capture excess spread while avoiding credit-related losses.

===== Page 6 =====

6 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
In multi-asset class portfolios, we remain slightly underweight U.S. Mortgage-
backed Securities, in favor of Equities. After reaching a multiyear low in January,
driven by the government-sponsored enterprises’ plan to purchase mortgage-backed
securities (MBS), spreads have drifted wider into the low-20 basis points (bps) range.
Spreads are now in line with, and in some cases slightly richer than, other high-quality

Fixed Income sectors, particularly IG Corporates. Recent geopolitical tensions have driven
modest duration extension and swings in rate volatility, though the impact on valuations
remains contained. Option-adjusted spreads are holding in the 20 to 25 bps range, still
below their 10-year average. We remain attentive to potential government-sponsored
enterprise MBS purchases, privatization efforts, and banking deregulation, all of which
could have implications for the MBS sector.

ALTERNATIVE INVESTMENTS
CIO’s Key Alternative Investment Principles
With their diverse strategies and historical progress, Alternative Investments (Alts) can
potentially enhance portfolio resilience and long-term performance for qualified investors.
However, unlike traditional assets, allocating to Alts is a long-term process constrained by
liquidity. They should be viewed primarily as strategic holdings, with tactical opportunities
playing only a secondary, incremental role for new investment.

• Think long-term: Illiquidity demands a multi-year horizon.
• Invest consistently—even in downturns: Pulling back during volatility can erode
benefits and lead to underallocation.
• Diversify: Spread across strategies, managers and vintages.
• Choose high-conviction managers: Performance varies widely; manager selection matters.
Hedge Strategies: Hedge Strategies (HS) declined 2.8% 2 in March, bringing YTD
returns to 1.0%. Equity Hedge (EH) strategies experienced deeper drawdowns, falling

an estimated 4.4% for the month and turning modestly negative YTD at -0.5%, 2 though
both HS overall and EH more narrowly continued to outperform broad U.S. Equity
indexes over the period. Managers generally navigated March’s geopolitical volatility with
relative discipline by cutting net exposure and reducing risk, which supported downside
protection during the selloff. However, the sharp rebound in risk assets during April has
left EH strategies lagging equity markets on a YTD basis, reflecting their more defensive

positioning. The pattern echoes trade-related volatility seen in 2025: HS initially
benefitted from relative drawdown protection during exogenous shocks but lagged in the
subsequent rebound. Importantly, once markets refocused on underlying fundamentals
and dispersion normalized, HS demonstrated an ability to re-engage opportunity sets and
generate attractive risk-adjusted returns over the balance of the year—such a dynamic
could present itself once again over the course of this year.

Private Equity: Private Equity (PE) strategies were unsurprisingly affected by
heightened volatility during the first quarter, yet deal activity proved more resilient than
feared, potentially laying the groundwork for a stronger second half of 2026. U.S. PE
deal volumes declined 18% quarter-over-quarter (QoQ) and 7% year-over-year (YoY) in
Q1,
3 coinciding with equity market turbulence, widening credit spreads, and mounting
concerns around Private Credit (PC) and AI-related disruption. Against this backdrop,

activity levels suggest continued engagement by sponsors and corporate management
teams. Looking ahead, deal pipelines—including several planned large-scale IPOs—point
to a renewed and increasingly robust opportunity set. Sustained elevation in oil prices
remains a wildcard, likely creating divergent outcomes across portfolios, while inflation
and interest-rate dynamics will need to remain anchored to avoid undermining what
otherwise appears to be a constructive PE environment.

2 HFR, Inc., BofA Securities, Morgan Stanley Prime Brokerage, Goldman Sachs Prime Services.
3 Cambridge Associates, LSEG, PitchBook, Inc., Bloomberg. As of May 1, 2026.
HEDGE STRATEGIES
Equity Hedge will likely benefit from decent
equity dispersion, driving alpha generation.
Micro-dominated markets should be better for
stock selection. Hedged approach is appealing
given high uncertainty
Macro is appealing for low correlations to
Equities/Fixed Income in uncertain policy

environment.
 Equity Hedge
Event Driven
Relative Value
 Macro
PRIVATE EQUITY
Venture Capital/Growth Equity expected to
benefit if AI theme proves durable. Early-stage
capital also tied to trend of companies staying
private for longer and incubating next gen
tech disruptors.
Buyout expected to benefit from lower rates,
though conflict-driven higher rates could
dampen dealmaking opportunity set.
Buyout
 Venture Capital/ Growth Equity
Special Situations


symbol indicates the strategies CIO views as having the
most favorable opportunity set for new investment within
the Alts asset classes.

===== Page 7 =====

7 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
Private Credit: 4 PC remains in a more turbulent phase, driven largely by investor
concern over software exposures amid uncertainty around AI-driven disruption. Ongoing
geopolitical risks add another layer of complexity: Slower growth and persistently
elevated inflation or interest rates would increase pressure across the asset class. As
with AI risk more broadly, outcomes will vary significantly by borrower quality, sector,

lender discipline, portfolio construction, and vintage. Direct Lending remains relatively
well positioned given moderate loan-to-value ratios, equity buffers, senior capital
positioning, and tighter credit documentation. Underlying fundamentals, including
within software, remain broadly stable to date, though dispersion of performance and
outcomes is expected to rise. Managers with rigorous underwriting frameworks and
proven restructuring capabilities are likely to navigate the cycle more effectively, a

path that may resemble the post-2022 adjustment experienced in private real estate
and retail-oriented investment vehicles. Notably, the renewed firming in broader risk
sentiment during April has helped soften the negative mood across the asset class: While
Q1 saw elevated redemptions in open-ended structures, public Business Development
Companies (BDC) rallied meaningfully during April, easing near-term concerns.
Real Assets: Private Real Estate (PRE) continued to show signs of stabilization during

the first quarter. Commercial property prices rose meaningfully, with the RCA Commercial
Property Price Index (CPPI) U.S. All-Property Index up 2.1% YoY and 1.1% QoQ, the strongest
annual increase since 2022. Investment activity totaled $135.8 billion
5 in Q1, representing
a 27% increase from a year earlier, with gains broad-based across property types. Notably,
deal flow included several take-private transactions involving publicly traded real estate

investment trusts (REIT), as institutional investors sought to capitalize on perceived
valuation dislocations. Lending channels remain accessible for PRE transactions following
March volatility, though interest-rate dynamics remain a key swing factor. Having already
undergone a multiyear valuation adjustment, PRE may be better positioned than other risk
assets, particularly given its potential inflation-beneficiary characteristics; nevertheless, a

sustained higher-rate environment could still restrain deal activity and valuation recovery.
Infrastructure posted preliminary gains of 1.6% in Q1, lifting one-year internal rate of return
to approximately 11.1% and reinforcing the asset class’s record of delivering high-single-
to low-double-digit returns across varied policy environments. Deal activity in North
America remained robust late last year, with renewable energy, clean technology, and digital

infrastructure (particularly data centers) continuing to drive opportunity. While investor
interest in data centers remains strong, execution considerations have taken on greater
importance, including access to power, water availability, equipment supply, permitting
timelines, and valuation discipline. Infrastructure’s inflation-sensitive and long-duration
characteristics remain attractive in the current environment; however, as seen during the
2022 rate cycle, a prolonged period of elevated rates could introduce temporary valuation

and transaction headwinds, underscoring the need for selectivity and operational expertise.
For Tangible Assets, the war with Iran has created extreme volatility in the energy market
until a longer-term outcome emerges. The result could end up being stabilization at
lower oil prices or an extended period of elevated prices depending on the eventual
settlement. Given the central role of energy in commodity production and transportation
costs, this is translating into broader commodity price volatility until oil prices stabilize.

The war has also arrested the dollar’s downtrend which helps restrain commodity prices.
A settlement is likely to reignite the dollar’s reversion toward fair value especially against
the major Asian currencies which are extremely undervalued.
Assuming a successful conclusion to the war would imply lower energy prices and
reduced volatility that would stimulate economic growth and restore the pre-war trend
toward a more robust global economy and manufacturing cycle supportive of commodity

prices more generally.
Precious metals have undergone a sharp correction from their record highs. A long period
of consolidation would not be surprising before their secular trend higher reasserts itself
in a world of persistent positive inflation.
4 Cambridge Associates, LSEG, PitchBook, Inc. As of May 1, 2026.
5 Cambridge Associates, LSEG, PitchBook, Inc., MSCI Real Capital Analytics, NCREIF , Preqin, BloombergNEF . As of April 2, 2026.
PRIVATE CREDIT

Neutral across PC. Direct Lending (DL) to
see declining returns with lower rates and
climbing credit losses. Primary focus on
software exposure; geopolitical volatility
could weigh further. Potential positive: More
PE deals should increase DL deployment
opportunities, potentially with wider spreads.
Direct Lending
Subordinated Capital
Asset Based/Specialty Finance
REAL ASSETS
Infrastructure tied to global trends of energy
demand and digitization, with inflation-hedge

characteristics.
PRE should continue to stabilize with outlook
improving; higher rates could slow recovery.
Private Real Estate
 Infrastructure

symbol indicates the strategies CIO views as having the
most favorable opportunity set for new investment within
the Alts asset classes.

===== Page 8 =====

8 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
MACRO STRATEGY
• Consumer spending growth remains firm as unemployment remains low and wage and salary growth remain solid. GDP growth was 2.0% in Q1,
helped by ongoing consumer and business investment spending.
• Core PCE inflation has broken out above the 2.5% to 3% range of the past year. The spike in energy prices has lifted the near-term inflation
outlook while longer-term expectations remain well anchored near the Fed’s target.

• Corporate profits are strong, fueled by the boom in AI spending and a pickup in global economic growth. Domestic profit margins remain around
a 60-year high. The profit cycle is likely to be extended by tailwinds from fiscal stimulus and deregulation, all supportive of economic growth and
risk assets. Higher energy prices are shifting the mix of profits toward that sector.
ECONOMIC FORECASTS (AS OF 5/1/2026)
Q1 2026A Q2 2026E Q3 2026E Q4 2026E 2026E 2027E

Real global GDP
(% y/y annualized) - - - - 3.1 3.4
Real U.S. GDP
(% q/q annualized) 2.0 2.5 1.9 1.9 2.2 2.2
CPI inflation
(% y/y) 2.7 4.4 4.0 3.8 3.7 2.3
Core CPI inflation
(% y/y**) 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.9 2.7 2.6
Unemployment rate (%) 4.3 4.5 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.3
Fed funds rate,
end period (%) 3.63 3.63 3.38 3.13 3.13 3.13
The forecasts in the table are the baseline view from BofA Global Research. The Global Wealth & Investment
Management (GWIM) Investment Strategy Committee (ISC) may make adjustments to this view over the course of

the year and can express upside/downside to these forecasts. There can be no assurance that the forecasts will be
achieved. Economic or financial forecasts are inherently limited and should not be relied on as indicators of future
investment performance. A = Actual. E/*= Estimate. Sources: BofA Global Research; GWIM ISC as of May 5, 2026.
Forecasts are subject to change. When assessing your portfolio in light of our current guidance, consider the tactical

positioning around asset allocation in reference to your own individual risk tolerance, time horizon, objectives and
liquidity needs. Certain investments may not be appropriate, given your specific circumstances and investment plan.
Certain security types, like hedged strategies and private equity investments, are subject to eligibility and suitability
criteria. Your advisor can help you customize your portfolio in light of your specific circumstances.

S&P 500 SCENARIOS BASED ON
FORWARD P/E AND 2026 EARNINGS
PER SHARE (EPS)
The table below provides a rough indication of
where the S&P 500 Index’s central tendency
could be, given various scenarios for EPS in
2026 and P/E ratio multiples. These scenarios
are not official price targets and are not meant
to signal levels where portfolio actions may
always be needed. However, during times of
market volatility, it’s useful to keep this basic
framework in mind when considering whether to

incrementally add to or trim risk from portfolios
while staying invested in one’s strategic asset
allocation framework.
2026
EPS
EPS Forward P/E (Next 12 months)
22.0x 23.0x 24.0x 25.0x 26.0x
$330 7,260 7,590 7,920 8,250 8,580
$320 7,040 7,360 7,680 8,000 8,320
$310 6,820 7,130 7,440 7,750 8,060
$300 6,600 6,900 7,200 7,500 7,800
$290 6,380 6,670 6,960 7,250 7,540
$280 6,160 6,440 6,720 7,000 7,280
$270 5,940 6,210 6,480 6,750 7,020
For illustrative purposes only. Source: Chief Investment

Office as of May 5, 2026.
CIO ASSET CLASS VIEWS AS OF MAY 5, 2026
Asset Class
CIO View
Underweight  Neutral  Overweight
Global Equities We are overweight Equities and continue to view weakness as a potential buying opportunity for long-term
investors. We are overweight the U.S., overweight EM, and underweight International Developed.
U.S. Large-cap
Growth Large-caps continue to look attractive on solid fundamentals, strong FCF and the ability to produce healthy

shareholder payouts. We maintain an equal balance between Large-cap Value and Large-cap Growth in
portfolios. U.S. Large-cap
Value
U.S. Small-cap
Growth
Small-caps are supported by interest rate cuts, improved earnings, potential deregulation and an uptick in
M&A activity. We continue to suggest a balance of Value and Growth factors.U.S. Small-cap
Value
International
Developed
Higher energy prices are a relative headwind given reliance on net imports. Europe likely to see limited

relative gains from expansion in AI given lack of market exposure, but fiscal easing remains supportive. Japan
to benefit from structural reforms and fiscal support
Emerging
Markets
We are slightly overweight EM overall, with the heavyweight Asia region particularly well positioned to benefit
from exposure to global IT investment and exchange rate appreciation. EM Asia import exposure to higher energy
prices partially offset by China stockpiles, with higher commodity prices a regional positive for Latin America.

===== Page 9 =====

9 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
Asset Class
CIO View
Underweight  Neutral  Overweight
International
North America The U.S. remains our preferred region relative to the rest of the world amid balance sheet strength, better
fundamentals for consumer spending and healthy shareholder payouts.
Eurozone
Expansionary fiscal policy combined with attractive relative valuations are potential market tailwinds.
Exposure to growth in AI spending is limited, while risks remain from higher energy prices and growing

competition with China in key industries.
U.K.
Lack of exposure to growth in AI spending represents a relative market disadvantage. Higher business taxes
from government budget are a headwind for the corporate sector.
Japan
Sustained positive inflation and official efforts to increase corporate returns to shareholders remain
fundamental supports. Large fiscal expansion is an additional tailwind despite the potential risks from higher
energy prices.

Asia Pac
ex-Japan*
Regional market likely to be driven in near term by slower economic growth in China and its impact on
domestic demand, with exposure to higher energy prices through Australian natural gas production.
Global Fixed
Income
Yields are attractive, providing good diversification for multi-asset class portfolios and reasonable income.
Neutral duration recommended.
U.S.
Governments
Nominal and real yields remain attractive across the curve relative to the last 10 to 15 years. A Treasury

allocation for liquidity, principal preservation and diversification is advised, as Treasurys provide the best
short-term diversification benefits to Equities among Fixed Income sectors. Rate volatility has increased and
may remain high.
U.S. Mortgages
After reaching a multiyear low in January, the lowest since 2022, spreads have drifted wider into the low
20s. They remain below their 10-year average and now largely in line with, and in some cases, richer than,

other high-quality fixed income sectors. This level reduces their relative appeal and limits potential upside
compared to Treasurys and IG corporate bonds.
U.S. Corporates
Despite the broader risk-off tone/sentiment across markets during the month of March, credit spreads were
resilient in April—retracing majority of widening. While spreads remain off YTD tights, valuations continue to
lean rich from a historical perspective and the potential for meaningful compression still appears limited. That

being said, all-in yields have moved higher amid the selloff in Treasury yields and should continue to drive
demand for high quality fixed income.
International
Fixed Income
International rates markets are at normal valuation levels on a U.S. dollar-hedged basis.
High Yield
Similar to IG, HY valuations remain expensive but have backed up modestly—led by the leveraged loan market.
However, a positive macroeconomic environment may limit spread volatility and credit losses as default rates

have begun to improve modestly. This leaves us comfortable at a neutral positioning. Within a high yield
allocation, we continue to suggest a balanced mix between loans and bonds.
U.S.
Investment-
grade Tax
Exempt
Tax-exempt munis cheapened markedly versus Treasury securities in March and early April due to weaker
technical conditions. We expect technical conditions to strengthen again from May to August. Munis still
enjoy generally stable credit conditions, although idiosyncratic risks exist, and certain sectors such as health

care and higher education face challenges. We note particularly attractive valuations for munis maturing in
10 years and longer, as well as credits in the mid-to-low portion of the rating spectrum, assuming careful
credit selection.
U.S. High Yield
Tax Exempt
High yield munis currently appear reasonably valued relative to IG, providing an opportunity for HY
outperformance if economic conditions remain favorable.
*Asia Pac ex-Japan refers to the geographic area surrounding the Pacific Ocean. The Asia Pac ex-Japan covers the western shores of North America and South America, and the shores of

Australia, eastern Asia and the islands of the Pacific. Tactical qualitative investment strategy weightings are relative in nature versus the strategic weightings for a fully diversified portfolio.
Weightings are based on the relative attractiveness of each asset class. Tactical strategy weightings are for a 12- to 18-month time horizon. CIO asset class views are relative to the CIO
Strategic Asset Allocation (SAA) of a multi-asset portfolio. Because economic and market conditions change, recommended allocations may vary in the future. Asset allocation cannot eliminate

the risk of fluctuating prices and uncertain returns. All sector and asset allocation recommendations must be considered in the context of an individual investor’s goals, time horizon, liquidity
needs and risk tolerance. Not all recommendations will be in the best interest of all investors.

===== Page 10 =====

10 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
CIO EQUITY SECTOR VIEWS AS OF MAY 5, 2026
The CIO Equity sector view is developed by applying a multi-input process combining the CIO’s factor views and fundamental bottom-up
industry outlook with top-down macro-economic changes and trends. The factor approach emphasizes valuation and momentum as key
inputs, with a fundamental overlay taking into consideration forward-looking views of growth, profits, policy, events and sentiment as well

as inclusion of certain investment themes. BofA Global Research’s sector strategy views are also captured as an input into the CIO process.
Our sector views are developed with a 12- to 18-month outlook but are revisited monthly by the GWIM Investment Strategy Committee.
Sector
CIO View
Underweight  Neutral  Overweight
Industrials
We are overweight Industrials as capex budgets continue to grow, some uncertainties have been removed,
100% bonus depreciation has been enacted again, and infrastructure plans are accelerating compared to

recent years. Longer term there are multiple thematic drivers for Industrials over the next three to five
years including multi-year backlogs for commercial aerospace, evolution of generative AI, increased power
demand and improving outlooks for defense budgets outside the U.S. Valuation is elevated, and momentum
is neutral. Risk Considerations: 1) short-cycle recovery timing continues to be pushed back, 2) inflation
resurgence drives up input costs, pressuring margins, 3) continued supply chain stress.

Consumer
Discretionary
With a resilient consumer, a relatively solid job market, potential for lower interest rates in the future,
consumer tax stimulus and a positive economic backdrop, we are overweight Consumer Discretionary.
Consumers are finding ways to alter their budgets to accommodate both experiences and necessities.
Consumer retail channels are shifting back to online spending as value-oriented consumers utilize alternative
payment methods to supplement their spending and seek out bargains. Valuation for the sector has

contracted while momentum has declined. Risk Considerations: 1) potential for an economic slowdown,
2) prolonged spikes in energy prices or interest rates, 3) sustained weakness in the job market.
Financials
We expect increased activity supported by deregulation and a positive net interest income outlook for
Financials. Potential for future interest rate cuts, along with a steeper yield curve, could help improve credit
risk and default rates going forward. Risks include persistent headline risk, the likelihood of fewer Fed rate

cuts this year, and a lower EPS growth outlook compared to the broader market. That said, we do not think
deregulatory benefits are baked into consensus estimates. Overall, valuation is attractive, and earnings-
driven momentum should continue to improve despite near term headwinds. Risk Considerations: 1) a
persistently inverted yield curve, 2) interest rate volatility, 3) private credit overhang, 4) lost market
share to non-bank lenders.
Information

Technology
We remain neutral on the IT sector due to elevated valuations, crowded positioning and margin risks, despite
strong earnings growth and AI-driven flows. Despite weakness in software, the long-term outlook remains
positive for Cloud, AI, data centers and semiconductors, but investors should focus on high-quality companies
and add on market weakness. Risk Considerations: 1) China exposure and trade wars, 2) supply chain
constraints, 3) AI monetization and overspend.

Energy
Despite concerns at the beginning of 2026 on the growing oil and liquefied natural gas supply outlooks, the
conflict in Iran has quickly erased that excess supply. Damage to energy infrastructure in the Middle East is
likely to support higher energy prices in 2026. Continue to emphasize refiners and upstream companies that
are low-cost producers with high FCF , balance sheet strength and low break-even oil prices. Energy stocks
still provide attractive valuations and strong dividends with improving momentum. Risk Considerations: 1)

lower oil and natural gas commodity prices, 2) slower global energy demand.
Materials
There is improved pricing and demand for commodities in general, and specifically for metals and mining
and more recently for chemicals due to supply disruptions. Longer term concerns remain regarding too much
new capacity in the future for petrochemicals and commodity chemicals which could turn very quickly. We
still see some longer-term tailwinds for demand, such as AI growth and power buildouts for copper demand

and strong investment flows into precious metals. The underlying sector valuation is neutral and momentum
recently improved. Risk Considerations: 1) slower global economic growth, 2) weaker residential and
non-residential construction, 3) oversupplied materials markets.
Utilities
The valuation discount closed during Q1 and valuation is no longer cheap relative to the market. We remain
positive on growing electricity demand forecasts for the first time since the early 2000s and accelerating

plans to invest in new generation, transmission and distribution infrastructure. Valuations based on
forward price-earnings multiples are now near the broader S&P 500 index and momentum is neutral. Risk
Considerations: 1) affordability concerns driving adverse regulatory or legislative solutions, 2) slower
power demand growth than forecast, 3) power outage events.

===== Page 11 =====

11 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
Sector
CIO View
Underweight  Neutral  Overweight
Healthcare
We remain neutral on Healthcare. Policy uncertainty has been a significant overhang for the Healthcare sector
for years, but following drug pricing agreements in recent months, some clarity on Healthcare issues and
policy and proposed expedited timelines for new product development provides potential upside. Hence our
upgrade to the sector from underweight to neutral in January. Utilization trends remain strong, and capital

budgets are not under serious pressure. We maintain strong conviction in Diagnostics and Labs while large
biopharma, Small-and-Mid-cap biotech and Life Science tools and equipment look to be more intriguing
areas for investment. Medtech, Managed Care/Providers and Diabetes are areas to be selective. We remain
optimistic on the long-term outlook for the Healthcare sector amid demographic changes, innovative pipelines
and a focus on driving down cost to consumers. Valuation is fair and momentum has recently stalled. Risk

Considerations: 1) policy changes that materially impact companies’ profitability; 2) a slowdown in
innovation; 3) margin and profitability pressures resulting from increased tariffs or higher labor/
supply costs.
Communication
Services
We are underweight the Communication Services sector, based on operating cash flow and FCF questions and
aggressive increases in capex spending. While valuations for top companies are rich, overall sector valuation is

aligned with the market, and momentum remains neutral. Risk Considerations: 1) regulatory and anti-trust
risks, 2) capex ramps for AI investments that limit EPS and FCF , 3) lower engagement pressuring growth.
Real Estate
We are underweight Real Estate and would be selective in Real Estate exposure. Furthermore, risks are rising
for downward pressure on rental rates as lease contracts expire and new contracts are negotiated. Continue
to emphasize longer-term secular trends in data centers, communication infrastructure (towers), storage and

industrial RE. Valuation is low and momentum stalled. Risk Considerations: 1) spike in interest rates and
borrowing costs, 2) declining demand for CRE in oversupplied markets, 3) workout problems.
Consumer
Staples
The Consumer Staples sector has faced headwinds from tariffs, higher input costs, and weaker earnings
growth, while consumers increasingly trade down and favor private labels, pressuring branded product
profitability. Although momentum is weak, fair-to-undervalued valuations and early signs of stabilization—

along with AI-driven cost efficiencies—could support better-than-expected earnings in 2026. Risk
Considerations: 1) soft demand across consumer-packaged goods, 2) consumer trade down and
substitution, 3) ongoing growth in private label and store brands.
Source: Chief Investment Office. All sector and asset allocation recommendations must be considered in the context of an individual investor's goals, time horizon, liquidity needs and risk
tolerance. Not all recommendations will be in the best interest of all investors.

CIO THEMATIC INVESTING AS OF MAY 5, 2026
The following themes and subthemes encapsulate the Chief Investment Office’s thinking on some of the most convincing undercurrents
of future areas of growth around: Transformative Innovation, Resilient Infrastructure, Future Security and Changing Demographics. These
themes carry long-term implications for economic growth, the cost of capital and global earnings. We’d consider exposure to these
themes a key ingredient to investing.

Transformative Innovation
Generative Artificial Intelligence: Power demand/generation,
productivity wave
Robotics/Automation: Industrial/service robotics
Digitization: Cloud computing, data analytics, digital payments, internet of
things, augmented reality and virtual reality, electrified transportation
Resilient Infrastructure
Energy Addition: Nuclear renaissance, solar, natural gas generation,
hydrogen, battery storage
Utility Infrastructure: Data centers, grid (transmission/distribution), thermal

management, water management, power generation
Supply Chain Reconfiguration: Onshoring/nearshoring buildout
Future Security
Aerospace & Defense: Remilitarization, space, drones
Cybersecurity: Network security, cloud evolution/security, endpoint security
Resource Protectionism: Food/agriculture/commodity scarcity (water),
natural resources, metals/mining
Changing Demographics
Healthcare Innovation: Ageing, longevity, drug discovery, biotechnology
(gene therapy, personalized medicine)

Great Wealth Transfer: Wealth creation, NextGen consumer/investor base
Global Labor Force Distribution: Immigration/migration, global fertility
bust, automation “cobots”

===== Page 12 =====

12 of 12 May 2026 – CIO Viewpoint
Index Definitions
Securities indexes assume reinvestment of all distributions and interest payments. Indexes are unmanaged and do not take into account fees or expenses. It is not possible to
invest directly in an index. Indexes are all based in U.S. dollars.
S&P 500 Index includes a representative sample of 500 leading companies in leading industries of the U.S. economy. Although the index focuses on the large-cap segment of the market,

with approximately 75% coverage of U.S. equities, it is also an ideal proxy for the total market.
S&P 500 Price Returns Index includes a representative sample of 500 leading companies in leading industries of the U.S. economy. Although the index focuses on the large-cap segment
of the market, with approximately 75% coverage of U.S. equities, it is also an ideal proxy for the total market. Price return is the rate of return on an investment portfolio, where the return

Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
This material does not take into account a client’s particular investment objectives, financial situations, or needs and is not intended as a recommendation, offer, or solicitation for the purchase
or sale of any security or investment strategy. Merrill offers a broad range of brokerage, investment advisory and other services. There are important differences between brokerage and

investment advisory services, including the type of advice and assistance provided, the fees charged, and the rights and obligations of the parties. It is important to understand the differences,
particularly when determining which service or services to select. For more information about these services and their differences, speak with your Merrill financial advisor.
Bank of America, Merrill, their affiliates, and advisors do not provide legal, tax, or accounting advice. Clients should consult their legal and/or tax advisors before making any financial decisions.

of America, Merrill or any affiliate to sell or provide, or a specific invitation for a consumer to apply for, any particular retail financial product or service that may be available.
The Chief Investment Office (CIO) provides thought leadership on wealth management, investment strategy and global markets; portfolio management solutions; due diligence; and solutions
oversight and data analytics. CIO viewpoints are developed for Bank of America Private Bank, a division of Bank of America, N.A., (“Bank of America”) and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith

The Global Wealth & Investment Management Investment Strategy Committee (GWIM ISC) is responsible for developing and coordinating recommendations for short-term and long-term
investment strategy and market views encompassing markets, economic indicators, asset classes and other market-related projections affecting GWIM.
BofA Global Research is research produced by BofA Securities, Inc. (“BofAS”) and/or one or more of its affiliates. BofAS is a registered broker-dealer, Member SIPC and wholly owned subsidiary

of Bank of America Corporation.
All recommendations must be considered in the context of an individual investor’s goals, time horizon, liquidity needs and risk tolerance. Not all recommendations will be in the best interest
of all investors.
Asset allocation, diversification and rebalancing do not ensure a profit or protect against loss in declining markets.
Dividend payments are not guaranteed, and are paid only when declared by an issuer’s board of directors. The amount of a dividend payment, if any, can vary over time.

Investments have varying degrees of risk. Some of the risks involved with equity securities include the possibility that the value of the stocks may fluctuate in response to events specific to
the companies or markets, as well as economic, political or social events in the U.S. or abroad. Small cap and mid cap companies pose special risks, including possible illiquidity and greater price
volatility than funds consisting of larger, more established companies. Investing in fixed-income securities may involve certain risks, including the credit quality of individual issuers, possible

prepayments, market or economic developments and yields and share price fluctuations due to changes in interest rates. When interest rates go up, bond prices typically drop, and vice versa.
Bonds are subject to interest rate, inflation and credit risks. Municipal securities can be significantly affected by political changes as well as uncertainties in the municipal market related to
taxation, legislative changes, or the rights of municipal security holders. Income from investing in municipal bonds is generally exempt from federal and state taxes for residents of the issuing

state. While the interest income is tax-exempt, any capital gains distributed are taxable to the investor. Income for some investors may be subject to the Federal Alternative Minimum Tax.
Investments in high-yield bonds (sometimes referred to as “junk bonds”) offer the potential for high current income and attractive total return, but involves certain risks. Changes in economic
conditions or other circumstances may adversely affect a junk bond issuer’s ability to make principal and interest payments. Treasury bills are less volatile than longer-term fixed income

securities and are guaranteed as to timely payment of principal and interest by the U.S. government. Mortgage-backed securities are subject to credit risk and the risk that the mortgages will
be prepaid, so that portfolio management may be faced with replenishing the portfolio in a possibly disadvantageous interest rate environment. Investments in foreign securities (including
ADRs) involve special risks, including foreign currency risk and the possibility of substantial volatility due to adverse political, economic or other developments. These risks are magnified for

investments made in emerging markets. Investments in a certain industry or sector may pose additional risk due to lack of diversification and sector concentration. Investments in real estate
securities can be subject to fluctuations in the value of the underlying properties, the effect of economic conditions on real estate values, changes in interest rates, and risk related to renting
properties, such as rental defaults. There are special risks associated with an investment in commodities, including market price fluctuations, regulatory changes, interest rate changes, credit

risk, economic changes and the impact of adverse political or financial factors. Investing in Gold involves special risks, including market price fluctuations, regulatory changes, interest rate
changes, credit risk, economic changes, and the impact of adverse political or financial factors.
Investments in Infrastructure Assets will be subject to risks incidental to owning and operating infrastructure projects, including risks associated with the general economic climate, geographic

in higher return potential but also higher loss potential. Changes in economic conditions or other circumstances may adversely affect your investments. Before you invest in alternative
investments, you should consider your overall financial situation, how much money you have to invest, your need for liquidity, and your tolerance for risk.
Nonfinancial assets, such as closely-held businesses, real estate, fine art, oil, gas and mineral properties, and timber, farm and ranch land, are complex in nature and involve risks including total

## 030_Mizuho_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

1

2026年以降の財政運営と金融市場 
財政懸念による「悪い金利高」リスクは燻る

○ 衆院選を経て高市政権の政策基盤は安定化。市場に配慮した財政運営の下で長期金利は日銀の利
上げに沿い緩やかに上昇（26年度末に2.6％、27年度末に2.9％程度）との見方がメインシナリオ 
○ 一方、中東情勢緊迫化に伴うエネルギー価格等の高騰で財政支出が拡大する可能性があるほか、
消費税減税の財源不透明・恒久化や高市政権の財政拡張色の強まりに対する市場の懸念は燻る 
○ 財政懸念が拡大した場合、ドル円相場は1ドル＝170円程度まで円安が加速し、長期金利は4％程度
まで急上昇する可能性。「悪い金利高」が消費税減税の効果を打ち消すリスクに要注意

１． 衆院選を経て政権基盤は安定化。財政懸念の後退で長期金利は落ち着いた動き 
衆議院総選挙は自民党が単独で衆議院定数の2/3を超える議席を獲得する大勝となった。各種報道に
よれば、選挙後も高市内閣の支持率は高水準を維持している。高市総理の求心力が高まり、政権基盤
も大きく改善したことで、安定的な政権運営が可能になった状況だ。 
財政運営の観点では、選挙前に野党を中心として広がっていた大幅減税論に伴う財政拡張リスクが
後退したと考えられる点は市場（特に債券市場）にとって安心材料として受け止められたとみられる
ほか、選挙後の高市首相の記者会見や施政方針演説・国会答弁等におけるこれまでの発言からも、積
極財政路線を掲げつつも「野放図な財政政策をとるわけではない」「消費税減税は特例公債（赤字国
債） に頼らない」 として市場に配慮する姿勢が見
受けられ、 足元の長期金利は落ち着いた動きとな
っている（図表1）。 
長期金利の推移について、 日銀による利上げや
国債保有削減、米金利の上昇、財政要因（2025年
度の大規模な補正予算編成等に伴う国の債務残
高対GDP比の押し上げ要因）で寄与度分解したも
のが図表2だ。2025年10月に高市政権が発足して
以降、 積極財政に伴う先行きの財政悪化・国債需
給の悪化への懸念（市場が要求するプレミアム）
による長期金利押し上げ幅は拡大傾向で推移し
てきた。2026年入り後も、衆議院総選挙で与野党
双方が消費税減税に言及したことで財政規律の
図表1 10 年債・20 年債・30 年債・40 年債の 
利回り推移

（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
25/10/1 25/11/1 25/12/1 26/1/1 26/2/1 26/3/1
10年債利回り
20年債利回り
30年債利回り
40年債利回り
（％）
（年）
みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ 
調査部  
080-1069-4626 
2026 年 3 月 13 日 
み ず ほ イ ン サ イ ト 日本経済 
（年/月/日）

===== Page 2 =====

2

緩みに対する市場の懸念が強まり、プレミアムの拡大が続いたが（2025年10月末～2026年1月末にかけ
てプレミアム拡大が長期金利を0.5％Pt程度押し上げたと推計）、選挙後は前述したように財政拡張リ
スクへの市場の懸念が和らいだことを受けてプレミアムがやや縮小し、長期金利も落ち着いた推移と
なっている状況だ。 
ただし、 財政に対する市場の懸念が完全に払拭されたわけではない。2026年2月末時点でプレミアム
による長期金利の押し上げ寄与度は0.3％Pt程度と推計され、財政運営に対する市場の懸念は依然とし
て燻っているとみられる。後述するように、足元では想定外の外的要因も相まって先行きの財政拡張
の可能性を示唆する材料が浮上しており、今後の展開によっては市場で財政懸念が拡大することで長
期金利の上昇が加速するリスクも考えられる点には留意が必要だ。 
本稿では、当面の財政運営と金融市場（特に長期金利）の見通し・リスクについて、足元の動向も
踏まえながら展望することとしたい。 
２．財政懸念は当面燻るも、規律ある財政運営で長期金利の上昇ペースは鈍化の公算 
今後の財政運営は、長期金利上昇・円安を高市政権が意識する結果として「安全運転」が基本線に
なる（市場が当初想定していたほどの財政拡張色が出てこない）との見方がみずほリサーチ＆テクノ
ロジーズ （2026）のメインシナリオであり、 前述した足元の長期金利の落ち着いた推移を踏まえると、
市場も概ね同様の見方が広まりつつあるのではないかとみられる。 
例えば、国会で審議中の2026年度当初予算 案をみると、当初予算 としての規模 としては過去最大
（122.3兆円） となったものの、 賃金・物価の上昇を踏まえれば予算規模が金額ベースで増加するのは
自然であり、名目GDP対比でみた2026年度当初予算規模（17.7％）は2009～25年度の平均（17.8％）程
度である。歳出の内訳をみると、増加したのは地方交付税交付金（前年度比＋10.6％、税収の増加を
自動的に反映）、国債費（同＋10.8％、金利上昇を受けた想定金利の引き上げを反映）であり、一般
歳出（同＋3.0％）は物価上昇見合いの伸びにと
どまっている。新規国債発行額も2年連続で30兆
円を割り込むなど、財政規律に 一定の配慮がな
された予算編成であった と言えよう。高市政権
発足後には円安 ・ 長期金利上昇が進んだが、 高市
政権はそうした市場の 反応（もっと言えば、円
安 ・ 金利上昇による家計 ・ 企業への負の影響と支
持率への打撃）を強く意識していると考えられ
る。 
今後の具体的な財政運営については、消費税
減税（飲食料品の消費税ゼロ）は時限措置にとど
め、高市首相の発言どおり 赤字国債の増発は回
避されることをメインシナリオとして 想定して
いる。財源が不透明である点は懸念材料ではあ
るが、 現時点では、高市政権のこれまでの説明ど
図表2 長期金利の変動要因

（注） 各要因の寄与度は、2016 年以降の金利水準変化に対する累積寄
与度。 四半期ベースの期中平均値 （2026年1～3月期は1～2月実
績値で延伸） で図示、 政策金利要因はNakajima（2025） による
推計値。財政要因は国の債務残高GDP比 
（出所） LSEG、 日本銀行、 財務省、Nakajima（2025） 、 一上 ・ 上野 （2013）
より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 3 =====

3

おり、補助金・租税特別措置の見直しや税収の上振れを主要な財源とし、税外収入等で補完すること
を見込んでいる。補助金・租税特別措置の見直しは費用対効果の低い非効率な予算の是正という観点
で市場からも評価されやすいとみられるほか、高市首相は「毎年度、補正予算が組まれることを前提
とした予算編成手法と決別する」 旨を発言しており1、近年のように大規模な補正予算を編成しないの
であれば税収の上振れを時限的な消費税減税に充てることも選択肢になり得るだろう2。その他、外為
特会の運用益（剰余金）や日銀納付金（ETF配当含む）の活用、政府資産の売却等の税外収入も時限的
な補完財源との位置づけであれば財源候補になり得るだろう。 
予算編成については、前述したとおりコロナ禍以降に急拡大した補正予算は縮小が見込まれるほか
（後述するように中東情勢の緊迫化の動向には留意する必要があるが、現時点では、新たな補正予算
の編成ではなく既存の基金や予備費を活用してガソリン価格抑制のための補助金支給等で対応する方
針とみられる）3、2027年度当初予算も危機管理投資・成長投資等の目玉施策で予算の積み増しが想定
されるものの全体としてはメリハリの効いたものになることを想定している。 
政府がこのように財政規律を意識した政策運営を行えば、財政に対する懸念は次第に後退しよう。
日銀による金融政策正常化の動きが継続的な金利押し上げ要因となることで4、 長期金利の上昇基調そ
のものは変わらないと考えられるが、財政懸念が一服してプレミアムが縮小することで緩やかな上昇
ペースに回帰する可能性が高いと予測している（ただし、消費税減税の実施などを受けて財政懸念に
対するプレミアムは完全に剥落するまでには至らないとみている）。図表2のとおり、メインシナリオ
では長期金利の水準として2026年度末に2.6％、2027年度末に2.9％程度を現時点で見込んでいる。 
３．財政懸念が拡大すれば「悪い金利高」が消費税減税の効果を打ち消すリスク も 
（１）外的な要因も相まって、財政拡張の可能性を市場が意識する状況に 
しかし、足元では想定外の外的な要因も相まって先行きの財政拡張の可能性を示唆する材料が浮上
しており、市場の財政懸念が拡大するリスクがある点には留意が必要だ。 
足元では、イラン情勢の緊迫化を受けて原油などエネルギー価格の高騰等による日本経済の下振れ
懸念が高まっており、これに対応するため財政支出が拡大する可能性がある。一時119ドル／バレル台
に急伸した原油価格は、トランプ大統領の「戦争はほぼ終了した」との発言を受けていったん下落に
転じたが、その後は国際エネルギー機関 （IEA） が過去最大規模の備蓄油放出を決定したにもかかわら
ず供給不安への懸念から再び上昇しており、依然として状況は不透明だ。今後、ホルムズ海峡の航行
制限やエネルギー関連施設攻撃の影響で原油供給が不足する状態が続き、原油価格が高止まりした場
合は、日本の景気を押し下げる要因になる。服部（2026）が指摘しているように、仮に、原油価格が
90ドル／バレル（2025年平均対比＋39％）程度で推移すれば、日本の消費者物価がエネルギーを中心
に0.6％程度押し上げられる可能性があり、家計単位では2人以上世帯の平均で年間2.2万円程度の負担
増が生じる計算となる。仮に原油価格高騰による影響が拡大・長期化する状況となれば、消費税減税
では対応が間に合わない、基金・予備費では対応しきれないとの判断から、2026年度補正予算を編成
する形で追加の物価高対策・経済対策が打ち出されることも考えられるだろう。 
また、飲食料品の消費税率ゼロについては、年間5兆円、2年間で10兆円の財源確保が難航する可能
性も否定はできない。例えば、仮にイラン情勢の緊迫化を受けたエネルギー価格の高騰や中国のレア

===== Page 4 =====

4

アース輸出規制等で景気が下振れれば税収が下振れることはあり得るほか、関連業界・省庁の抵抗等
で補助金や租税特別措置の見直しが進まないことも考えられる。 
加えて、いったん引き下げた税率を元に戻す政治的ハードルは高く、2028年には参議院選挙も控え
ている点も踏まえると、エネルギー関連の補助金が延長されてきたのと同様、消費税減税が「実質恒
久化」してしまう可能性も今後市場で意識されるようになるかもしれない。この点については、政府
が設置した社会保障国民会議(以下国民会議)で給付付き税額控除の制度設計を早急に進めていくこと
が鍵になるが、再分配の仕組みや安定財源の検討が必要となることから5、具体的な制度設計に向けた
国民会議の議論を注視していく必要がある。 
さらに、足元で高市政権の政策運営の財政拡大スタンスが強まる可能性を指摘する見方も浮上して
いる。実際、政府は日銀審議委員の後任案として、高市政権が推進する積極財政と親和的との見方が
ある浅田統一郎氏・佐藤綾野氏の2名を提示した。 浅田氏はポストケインズ派の流れを汲み、 積極財政
と金融緩和のポリシーミックスを重視している立場とみられる。佐藤氏は「責任ある積極財政を推進
する議員連盟」における講演で「政府が『貯蓄から投資』を積極的に行い、その（外為特会の）剰余
金を活用すべき」「インフレ率と長期金利が低水準である間は、国債発行の余地あり」等と主張して
いる。両氏が実際に審議委員に就任した場合にこれまでの発言と同様の主張を行うかどうかは定かで
はないが、市場はこの人事案に高市政権の政策スタンスが反映されていると解釈し、財政出動圧力が
今後強まる可能性を意識しているとみられる点には留意が必要だろう6。 
（２）財政懸念が拡大すれば 1 ドル＝170 円まで円安、長期金利は 4％まで上昇のリスクも 
仮に安定財源の確保が不透明なまま財政拡張が続いた場合、財政不安や国債需給悪化への懸念が市
場で強まり、円資産に対する投資家のリスク許容度の低下や海外投資家等が要求するリスクプレミア
ムの拡大を通じて、円の急落・長期金利の高騰につながることが懸念される（こうした局面では、格
付機関による日本国債の信用力評価を巡る議論が意識され、投資家心理に影響を与える可能性もある）。
この場合、ドル円相場は1ドル＝160円を大幅に上回る水準（1ドル＝170円程度が目安）まで円安が加
速し7、 日銀は円安対応で急速な利上げを迫られるほか、財政懸念に伴うプレミアム拡大が重なること
図表3 シナリオ別のドル円想定パス 図表4 シナリオ別の長期金利想定パス

（注）リスクシナリオの想定パスはイメージとして図示 
（出所） LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
（注）リスクシナリオの想定パスはイメージとして図示 
（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
140
145
150
155
160
165
170
24 25 26 27
（円/ドル）
（年）
見通し
【リスクシナリオ】
財政懸念が高まれば、
170円程度まで円安加速も視野
【メインシナリオ】
財政懸念は徐々にはく落、
150円台を中心に推移
0
1
2
3
4
24 25 26 27
（％）
（年）
【リスクシナリオ】
財政懸念でタ ームプレミ アム拡大。円安対応で日銀は
急速な利上げを迫られ、長期金利が4％程度まで上昇
【メ イ ンシナリオ】
財政懸念がはく落、日銀の利上げに
沿って3％程度まで緩やかに上昇
見通し

===== Page 5 =====

5

で長期金利は2026年度以降に4％程度まで急上昇する可能性があるだろう （図表3・4） 。 国債の平均残
存期間は2025年時点で約9.5年となっており長期金利が上昇しても政府の支払金利 （国債の加重平均金
利） が直ちに急上昇するわけではなく、 当面はインフレによる税収増を受けて政府の債務残高対GDP比
の急激な上昇は回避される可能性が高いと考えられるが、長期金利が名目経済成長率を下回る「財政
ボーナス」の状況が解消されれば市場における財政運営への不安は高まりやすくなるとみられる。日
本が直ちに「財政破綻」（国債のデフォルト）に至る可能性は低いとしても、市場は投資家心理やス
トーリーで左右される側面があり、円安（及びそこから波及するインフレ）・金利上昇が国民生活に
打撃を与えるリスクがある点には十分に注意する必要がある。 
前述したように、規律ある財政運営が行われることを想定したメインシナリオでは長期金利は日銀
の利上げに沿って2026年度後半から2027年度にかけて2％台後半～3％弱での推移を見込んでいるが、
市場が財政運営に対する懸念を強める場合はプレミアムの拡大や日銀の急速利上げで長期金利がメイ
ンシナリオのパス対比で＋1％Pt以上の幅で上昇する可能性がある。みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジー
ズのマクロモデルを用いた試算では、長期金利がメインシナリオ対比で＋1.0％Pt上振れることでGDP
を0.3％程度、＋1.5％Pt程度上振れることで0.5％程度下押しする計算となる（図表5）。 
みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ （2026） は時限的な消費税減税 （飲食料品の消費税ゼロ） がGDPを
＋0.2％Pt程度押し上げると試算しているほか、 内
閣府のマクロモデルを踏まえると恒久的な消費税
減税（飲食料品の消費税ゼロ）が実施される場合
はGDPを＋0.4％Pt程度押し上げると見られるが、
「悪い金利高」による住宅投資や設備投資への負
の影響が消費税減税による個人消費の押し上げ効
果を打ち消してしまう可能性がある点には注意が
必要だ。 
2026～27年は、政府による財政運営が「責任あ
る」ものになるかどうかの分岐点として市場の注
目が集まる。まずは、国民会議における消費税減
税・給付付き税額控除を含めた社会保障と税の一
体改革についての議論の動向や、2027年度概算要
求前に公表される骨太方針等に注目したい。

［参考文献］ 
Nakajima, J.(2025) “Impact of US monetary policy spillovers and yield curve control policy,” 
Discussion Paper Series A.760, Institute of Economic Research, Hitotsubashi University 
一上響 ・ 上野陽一（2013）「ゼロ金利下におけるタームプレミアムの推計 ： 日米英の長期金利の分析」、
ワーキングペーパーシリーズ No.13-J-6、日本銀行 
酒井才介（2025a） 「高市政権の経済対策の効果と懸念～円安・インフレが経済効果を減殺するリスク
～」 、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ『みずほインサイト』 、2025年11月25日 
図表5 長期金利上昇による GDP 等への影響

（注） 財政インフレ・円安対応の日銀の利上げや、財政懸念に伴う
プレミアム拡大により、財政不安が後退する場合のパス対
比で長期金利が1.0％Pt、1.5％Pt上昇すると想定し、 みずほ
リサーチ＆テクノロジーズのマクロモデルを用いて試算 
（出所）みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
▲ 0.3
▲ 0.6
▲ 0.2
▲ 0.5
▲ 0.9
▲ 0.4
▲ 1.0
▲ 0.9
▲ 0.8
▲ 0.7
▲ 0.6
▲ 0.5
▲ 0.4
▲ 0.3
▲ 0.2
▲ 0.1
0.0
GDP 住宅投資 設備投資
長期金利１％上昇
長期金利1.5％上昇
（財政不安が後退する場合のパスからの乖離率、％）

===== Page 6 =====

6

酒井才介 （2025b） 「大規模補正予算で国債依存が継続～懸念される金利上昇リスクへの脆弱性～」 、 み
ずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ『みずほインサイト』 、2025年12月2日 
対木さおり・服部直樹・越山祐資・井上淳・今井大輔・池田亮平（2025）「日本経済の持続的・包摂的
成長に向けた処方箋 （家計編）～消費の長期低迷の背景にある3つの構造的課題をどのように打
破するか～」 、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ『みずほリポート』、2025年12月15日 
服部直樹（2026）「年率＋1.3％と1 次速報から上方修正（10～12月期2次QE）」 、 みずほリサーチ＆テク
ノロジーズ『QE解説』、2026年3月10日 
みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ（2026）「2026・2027年 内外経済見通し 二極化する世界～深まる
「分断」と重み増す政府の役割～」、2026年2月26日

1 この点については財政ガバナンス上の観点から望ましい方向性であるとして市場からも評価されやすいだろう。 
2 税収の上振れは過去年度において大規模な補正予算編成の財源に充てられてきた経緯がある。ただし、税収の上振れは安定財
源とは言えないため、あくまで時限措置として位置付けられることが市場の理解を得る上で重要である。 
3 近年の補正予算編成の動向とその評価については酒井（2025a） 、酒井（2025b）を参照されたい。 
4 みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ（2026）は、日銀は今後概ね半年に 1 回の利上げペースを維持し、2027 年度半ばにかけて
政策金利を少なくとも 1.5％まで引き上げ、2027 年度後半以降は、経済・物価動向の様子を見つつ追加で最大 2 回（1.5％→
2.0％）の利上げを実施すると予測している。 
5 対木他（2025）は、日本は先進国対比で再分配機能に弱さがあり、とりわけ年収 400 万円台以下の所得層向けに再分配機能
を強化する必要がある点を指摘している。再分配機能を強化する観点からは富裕層課税強化等も選択肢となるが、国民の所得・
資産情報の把握に関するインフラ整備を含めて政治的なリーダーシップが求められ、相応にハードルは高いと考えられる点には
留意が必要だ。 
6 日銀の金融政策運営については、浅田氏・佐藤氏の過去の発言等を踏まえれば今後日銀ボードメンバーのバランスはハト派色
がやや強まる可能性があるとみている。もっとも、高市政権が利上げに消極的との見方が強まる場合や両候補からハト派色の強
い発言が目立つ場合は円安・金利上昇要因になることから、現実的には両候補とも極端な金融緩和志向を強く打ち出す可能性は
限定的とみられる。当面、浅田氏・佐藤氏の所信聴取や質疑に注目していきたい。 
7 財政懸念がはく落すると想定するメインシナリオの下では、実質金利の低さが意識される中で金利差縮小による円高圧力は限
定的との見方から、ドル円相場は 1 ドル＝150 円台での推移が継続すると予測している（図表 3。詳細はみずほリサーチ＆テク
ノロジーズ（2026）を参照） 。

===== Page 7 =====

© 2026 Mizuho Research & Technologies, Ltd.
2026年3月13日【みずほリポート】原油高だけではない中東情勢緊迫化の試練～3つの経路からみた世界経済・産業への影響～

===== Page 8 =====

蓋然性のあるシナリオに基づき経済影響を試算
影響試算
本レポートの趣旨
1
中東情勢緊迫化による経済波及経路の確認
現状把握
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
原油や天然ガスの価格上昇・供給途絶に注目が集まっているが、ほかに留意すべき点はないか確認経済に影響を与える3つの経路を分析① 中東からの輸入② 中東への輸出③ 金融市場
湾岸戦争やウクライナ戦争を参考に、蓋然性のあるリスクシナリオを想定（影響の大きさ、長さ、落ち着きどころ）国・地域や業種による影響を分析し、脆弱性を評価

===== Page 9 =====

02468101214
タイEUﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ韓国 日本 米国
(％)
▲100
▲50
0
50
100
台湾日本韓国EUタイフィリピン
ベトナム
インド中国マレーシア
米国インドネシア
その他石炭天然ガス石油製品原油
（エネルギー総供給比、％）
経路①中東からの輸入：資源価格高騰は世界的なインフレ要因。経済影響は国・地域でまちまち中東情勢緊迫化によるエネルギー価格上昇は各国共通のインフレの押し上げ要因―EUやアジア諸国はCPIに占めるエネルギーのウェイトが高く、インフレ上昇圧力が相対的に大一方、資源の調達構造に応じて、エネルギー価格高騰が景気へ与える影響は国・地域によりまだら模様― 台湾、日本、韓国やEUは化石燃料の輸入依存度が高く、価格上昇による経済への影響を受けやすい― 一方、米国・インドネシアなどのエネルギー資源の純輸出国には恩恵
2
（注） 「光熱費」「燃料」に該当する項目ウェイトを集計。米国、マレーシアは2025年、他は2026年2月時点（出所） 各国・地域統計局、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

CPIに占めるエネルギー比率エネルギー貿易収支（総供給熱量比）
（注）熱量ベース。（エネルギー輸出－エネルギー輸入）÷エネルギー総供給で計算（出所）IEAより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
経済に対する下押し影響大
エネルギー価格上昇で恩恵
いずれの国でも一定のインフレが発生するが、景気影響は国ごとに差異
天然ガス石油製品原油
その他石炭
エネルギー貿易収支

===== Page 10 =====

代表的な品目 全世界 インドマレーシアシンガポールタイベトナムインドネシアフィリピン日本 中国 韓国 香港 EU 豪州 米国
原油30.42759 6921854982 953462-7 6 6液化天然ガス（LNG）24.26027 0 - 0 25 0 11 27 35649 0 0液化プロパン27.499 91 8538760904 34 3 0 0 0 0硫黄46.59619 27234 9 2 0 47 2 0 5 7 5石灰石56.1920 0 32 1 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0尿素肥料35.272 7427 0 0 18 14 6 0231 06836メタノール36.64561 9139 26551450 6530 0 7 - 0エチレングリコール50.810048 161 65 761 156244 0 46 6 0希ガス38.372 5513 7 368922 3262498230919ジエチレングリコール55.690196626 9880 08923 0600 0シクロヘキサン75.60 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0 0640 6高密度ポリエチレン30.584265416 327713 7 44 15 34 36 0 0ポリプロピレン25.05514 42 8 19 38 11 16 21 1 9 35 0 4アルミニウム合金29.4425814 40 9 12 30 38 1 45 0 217229直接還元鉄（DRI）32.41065 84 8336 0 0970 0 - 1 0 0鉄鋼製橋梁・橋梁部材28.0520 0 2 0 1 0 - 0 0 0 7 1 2

鉱物性産品
化学
一次金属
プラ・ゴム
エネルギー以外でも湾岸諸国は素材供給で存在感、アジアは供給網で高い依存GCCは鉱物性生産品のほかにも、化学、一次金属、ゴム・プラ等の貿易シェアが大。アジアで依存度が高い傾向
3
湾岸諸国（GCC）の輸出シェア：主要分類・品目別
（注） 世界の輸入総額、および各国の輸入総額に占めるGCC参加国（サウジアラビア、アラブ首長国連邦（UAE）、バーレーン、オマーン、カタール、クウェート）の輸出総額。ベトナムは2023年、世界・その他各国は2024年時点（出所）UN Comtradeより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
分類
33％
19％
9％
世界の中東依存度
19％
原油やLNG以外でも素材系を中心に中東依存度の高い品目が存在
アジア（特にインド）で高い中東依存度
輸出シェア（中東からの輸入額／全世界からの輸入額、％）

===== Page 11 =====

石油化学製品のサプライチェーン
【参考】中東情勢緊迫化による減産・生産停止は石油製品から誘導品、そして素材・加工品へ
4（出所） 経済産業省（2021）「化学産業の現状と課題」、その他各種資料・報道等より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
原油
ナフサ
ガソリン
灯油
軽油
重油
ガス
エチレン
石油製品化学誘導品素材・加工品最終製品
プロピレン
ブタジエン
ベンゼン
トルエン
キシレン
プラスチック
化学繊維
ゴム
塗料・溶剤
洗剤
輸送機械
電気・電子機器
建設資材
医療・介護用品
包装・容器
日用品・雑貨
アパレル・雑貨
産業資材
工業部品
・・・ほか ・・・ほか ・・・ほか ・・・ほか
石油化学製品のサプライチェーン
石油化学製品のサプライチェーンは裾野が広く、原油や石油製品の調達減は化学誘導品や素材・加工品など広範に影響― エチレン等の化学誘導品は、日本企業をはじめ、世界中で原料調達難による減産や生産停止等の影響が顕在化
減産や生産停止等の影響が顕在化
素材等にも徐々に波及

===== Page 12 =====

818
370
01002003004005006007008009001,000
2/7 2/14 2/21 2/28 3/7
（隻）
（月/日）
経路②中東への輸出：足元で貿易取引は半減。南・東南アジアでは輸出を介した下押しが大湾岸諸国（GCC）の到着船隻は、ホルムズ海峡が実質的に閉鎖されて以降に半減― サウジアラビアやオマーンの貿易は継続している一方で、ペルシャ湾内に位置するUAEなどの貿易は大幅に停滞南・東南アジアはGCCに対して一定の輸出規模を有しており、貿易を介した影響を受けやすい構造― 相対的に東南アジアの対中東依存度が高く、インドネシア・タイからは乗用車、ベトナムからは携帯電話等を輸出― 一部日系自動車メーカーでも、ホルムズ海峡の実質的閉鎖を受け中東向け製品を減産するなど、影響が顕在化
5（出所）IMFより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
GCCの到着船隻数 GCC向け輸出（対GDP比、2024年）
（出所）Lloyd’s List Intelligence、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

ホルムズ海峡の実質的な閉鎖以降中東の貿易は半減
南アジア・東南アジアでは経済規模に対するGCC向け輸出の比率が高い⇒取引半減の影響は他国・地域に比べ大

===== Page 13 =====

020406080100
ベトナム インド タイ マレーシア中国 韓国 日本 ユーロ圏 インドネシア台湾 米国 フィリピン
食料品
一般機械
電子機器
輸送機械
その他
(％)
アジアの中東向け輸出は機械系が中心。輸出企業への下方圧力が相対的に高い可能性
6
（注） ベトナムは2023年、その他の国・地域は2024年時点。GCC6カ国への輸出額（HSコード6桁ベース）を、RIETI-TIDに基づき分類したもの。HSコー ドが改定された品目は、改定内容に鑑み補正した。その他にはどの産業にも分類されない品目も含まれる（出所）UN Comtrade、RIETIより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
各国・地域について産業別の内訳をみると、輸送用機械、電子機器、一般機械の比率が高い― タイ・日本・インドネシアでは輸送機械が主力輸出品― ベトナムは携帯電話等の電子機器がほぼ半分を占める
湾岸諸国（GCC）向け輸出の産業別割合ベトナムでは携帯電話等が主力タイや日本、インドネシアでは輸送機械が主力製品

===== Page 14 =====

▲12▲10▲8▲6▲4▲20
台湾日本韓国ユーロタイフィリピン
ベトナムインド中国マレーシア
米国インドネシア
（2月27日→3月12日の変化率、％）
▲4▲3▲2▲1012
台湾日本韓国ユーロタイフィリピン
ベトナムインド中国マレーシア
米国インドネシア
（2月27日→3月12日の変化率、％）
経路③金融：非資源国に資本流出圧力。株安通貨安が進展、資源インフレ増幅の懸念も中東情勢悪緊迫化を受け、世界の株価・為替は下落。資源輸入国・地域では、エネルギー調達不安の高まりで下落圧力が集中― エネルギー貿易収支が赤字のアジア諸国やユーロ圏で株価・為替の下落圧力が大•こうした国・地域では為替下落が資源の輸入価格を膨張させ、国内の資源インフレを増幅するリスク
7
（注） 株価指数は右の通り。米：S&P500、日：日経平均、ユーロ：ユーロストックス50、中国：上海総合、韓国：KOSPI、台湾：加権、シンガポール：STI、インドネシア：ジャカルタ総合、タイ：SET、マレーシア：KLCI、フィリピン：フィリピン総合、ベトナム：VN指数、インド：SENSEX。台湾のみ2月26日～3月12日の変化率（出所） 各国・地域統計、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

株価 為替
（注） 各国・地域の対米ドルレート騰落率。米国のみ米ドルインデックス（出所） 各国・地域統計、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
赤字 エネルギー貿易収支 黒字
赤字 エネルギー貿易収支 黒字
資源国だがリスクオフの動きが出た模様
資源輸入地域から資本が流出株安・通貨安が進展

===== Page 15 =====

想定シナリオ：戦闘は数カ月で小康状態も、地政学的不透明感は残存。新たな均衡に
8（注） 開戦2カ月前を100とした指数。原油はWTI、ブレント、ドバイの平均。天然ガスは米国（Henry Hub）、欧州（TTF）、日本（LNG）の平均。株価はS&P500（出所） 世界銀行、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
試算想定（影響の大きさ/影響の長さ/落ち着きどころ）原油
天然ガス
株価
原油価格のピークは湾岸戦争で軍事作戦前比2.3倍、ロシアのウクライナ侵攻で1.6倍の水準いずれの戦争も2～4カ月でピークアウト。戦闘は数カ月程度で一先ず小康状態と想定エネルギー価格は落ち着きをみせるものの、地政学的な不透明感は残るため、価格や貿易量は軍事作戦開始前の水準には戻らず
先進国を中心に株価下落による逆資産効果が経済を下押し。現状の株価下落率はエネルギーの海外依存度によって差があるが、本試算ではリスクケースとして資源国も含め一律で株価10％下落を想定新興国は自国通貨安によるインフレ圧力の高まりが購買力を抑制。ただし現時点で新興国通貨の下落率は限定的。試算に際しては足元の動きを反映し5％の下落を織り込みなお、エネルギー価格の上昇は政府の財政出動圧力となるが今回はその影響を織り込んでいない

価格 ⇒軍事作戦開始前比2割高
価格 ⇒軍事作戦開始前比2割高
貿易量⇒軍事作戦開始前比2割減
貿易量⇒軍事作戦開始前比2割減
80100120140160180200220240-2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
湾岸戦争（1990～91）ウクライナ戦争（2022～）
（開戦2か月前=100）
（経過月）
406080100120140160180200-2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
湾岸戦争（1990～91） ウクライナ戦争（2022～）
（開戦2か月前=100）
（経過月）
60708090100110120-2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
湾岸戦争（1990～91） ウクライナ戦争（2022～）
（開戦2か月前=100）
（経過月）
数か月でピークアウト
ロシアのガス供給が段階的に削減。供給不足が徐々に深刻化
株価は2割前後下落。ウクライナ戦争は戦闘継続で底這い推移

===== Page 16 =====

▲1.0▲0.8▲0.6▲0.4▲0.20.00.2
日本韓国EUフィリピン
ベトナムインド中国マレーシア
米国インドネシア
（％）
0.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.41.61.8
日本韓国EUタイフィリピン
ベトナムインド中国マレーシア
米国インドネシア
CPI総合コアCPI（％）
（注） 各要素の試算前提は次の通り。 ①中東からの輸入（所得影響と供給制約影響の和）：所得影響は、原材料価格の高騰による所得流出入に限界消費性向（0.5）を乗じた値。調達制約影響は、鉱物燃料・石油製品・化学・一次金属の調達制約を想定。②中東への輸出：GCC諸国の最終需要が20％減少したと想定。③金融：株価下落による逆資産効果と、為替変動による交易利得の合計値（出所）ADB、IMF、UN Comtradeより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
経済影響：アジアを中心に景気を押し下げ。先進国では株価下落の影響が大エネルギー価格ショックは世界全体のインフレ要因に― 中東産エネルギーに依存するアジアを中心に物価が上振れ。スタグフレーション懸念が高まる形に景気は日本・アジア中心に下振れるとの試算― 中東への貿易依存度が高い日本やアジアは、エネルギー価格上昇や中東産の原材料不足で悪影響を受けやすい構造

9
中東情勢緊迫化による消費者物価への影響中東情勢緊迫化による景気への影響
（注） エネルギー価格ショック・為替変動の影響。エネルギー価格ショックは、鉱物燃料生産に占める原油・LNGの割合が30％以上の国について、鉱物燃料の価格が20％上昇したと仮定。均衡価格モデルで計算される産出価格上振れ幅を家計の需要構成で加重平均。為替変動の影響は、ECB（2020）をもとに為替レートに対する消費者物価の感応度を設定のうえ、国際産業連関表を用いた均衡価格モデルにより算出（出所）ADB、ECB（2020）” Estimating the elasticity of consumer prices to the exchange rate: an accounting approach”より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
②中東への輸出①中東からの輸入（数量）
①中東からの輸入（価格）影響合計（①＋②）
③金融
景気悪化も利下げは困難
※資源国にも株価下落が波及した場合

===== Page 17 =====

業種別では化学・金属製品・空運で影響大
10
（注） 輸出ショック・供給制約・エネルギー価格ショックによる影響の合計。ただし、エネルギーショック影響は、中間財貿易の比率を用いて国別の交易利得を産業に按分した値であり、必ずしもそのまま産業の付加価値に影響を与えるわけではない点には留意（出所）ADBより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
国・産業別付加価値の変化（影響合計、付加価値変化率に応じた色分け）
マイナス プラス
化学ゴム・プラスチック一次金属金属製品一般機械 電気機械 輸送機械 空運
日本
韓国
EU
フィリピン
ベトナム
インド
中国
マレーシア
米国
インドネシア

===== Page 18 =====

蓋然性のあるシナリオに基づき経済影響を試算戦闘継続能力には一定の限界。戦闘は数カ月程度で小康状態に移行するシナリオを想定。エネルギー価格は落ち着きをみせるものの、地政学的な不透明感は残るため価格は高止まり（軍事作戦開始前対比2割高）。中東との貿易量も同2割減を想定加えて、資源国も含めた株価下落（一律▲10％）や、新興国を中心とした通貨安（一律▲5％）など、金融を通じた影響もリスクとして考慮このシナリオに基づく試算の結果、アジアを中心に景気を押し下げ。業種では化学や金属、輸送用機械、一部運輸サービスへの影響が顕著
影響試算
まとめ
11
中東情勢緊迫化による経済波及経路の確認原油・天然ガスに加え、石油化学製品など中間財でも中東依存が大湾岸6カ国の年間輸入額は日本に匹敵。自動車や機械などでは重要市場の１つにエネルギーの輸入依存度が高い国では、交易条件の悪化を見込んで株安・通貨安が進展。金融市場を通じて経済を下押し
現状把握
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 19 =====

みずほリポート2026年の米経済は雇用を伴う成⾧へ回帰～財政政策と対米投資が国内需要を喚起～（2025年12月26日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2025年12月作成
URLQRコードポイント① 2025年は『雇用なき成⾧』ポイント② 2026年は『雇用を伴う成⾧』へポイント③ 迫る中間選挙レポート
トランプ政権が各国と結んだ対米投資案件は、徐々に実行段階へ。大規模な減税政策も内需の押し上げ要因となり、小規模企業の雇用マインドも上向きに
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2025-0164/index.html

===== Page 20 =====

みずほリポート政権発足1年からみえた『トランプ流国家資本主義』の正体～日本企業が生き抜くための「攻め」と「守り」の戦略～（2026年1月20日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2026年1月作成
URLQRコード
ポイント①新自由主義の反動から生まれた『トランプ流国家資本主義』とは？ポイント② 『トランプ流国家資本主義』は米経済・ビジネスをどう変えるのか？ポイント③新たな米資本主義体制の中で、日系企業に求められる対応は？ポイント④ポスト・トランプで国家資本主義はどう変わるか？レポート
大統領権限を活用し経済安保分野の成⾧を促す一方、政策不確実性や物価高を助⾧。日本企業には同分野で好機だが、情報収集やコスト対応等が課題
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2026-0004/index.html

===== Page 21 =====

===== Page 22 =====

1

Mizuho RT EXPRESS

原油高の長期化が企業業績に与える影響 
～原油価格 100 ドル継続で付加価値額は 1.2%減～

調査部 主任エコノミスト 東深澤武史 
080-1069-4919 takeshi.higashifukasawa@mizuho-rt.co.jp 
■ イラン情勢は先行き不透明、原油高は長期化のリスクも 
2月28日、 トランプ米大統領はイスラエルと共同で、 イランに対する軍事作戦の開始を発表した。 両
軍の戦闘激化や、ホルムズ海峡の事実上の封鎖、サウジアラビアやカタール、UAEなどの周辺国にお
ける石油・天然ガス関連施設の被害を受けて、金融市場では、株価の大幅安や有事のドル買いが優勢
となるなど、リスク回避の動きが強まった。2月末に1バレル＝60ドル台半ばだったWTI原油価格は、3
月9日に一時1バレル＝119.48ドルの高値をつけ、2倍近い水準まで高騰した。その後、トランプ大統領
の 「戦争はほぼ完了した」 との発言が伝わると、原油価格は一時急落したものの、本稿執筆時点では、
1バレル＝90ドル台の高値圏での水準で推移している。 
既に米国 ・ イスラエルとイランの軍事衝突に留まらず、 周辺諸国を巻き込んだ事態に発展しており、
いつどのような形で終結を迎えるのか、依然として不確実性の高い状況が続いていることを織り込ん
で、原油価格は高止まりしている模様だ。軍事衝突が終結してホルムズ海峡の自由な航行が可能とな
った後も、原油供給が抑制される状況が長期化するリスクが高まっているとみられる。資源輸入国で
ある日本にとって、原油価格上昇は、石油・
石炭製品価格 の上昇を通じて 企業のコスト
増に直結する（図表1）。今後、原油価格が
一段と上昇する、 あるいは高止まりが継続す
れば、幅広い企業にとってコスト増加要因と
なり、日本経済にとっては下押し圧力とな
る。そうした問題意識のもと、 本稿では、 原
油高が長期化した場合の 日本経済への 影響
を展望する。

図表1 WTI原油価格と企業物価（石油・石炭製品）

（注） WTI原油価格は先物（期近物）の価格 
（出所） 日本銀行、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
図表 3 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数  図表4 民間総賃金指数

2026 年 3 月 13 日 
0
50
100
150
200
0
50
100
150
200
00 05 10 15 20 25
WTI原油価格
企業物価（石油・石炭製品）（右目盛）
（ドル） （2020年=100）
（年）

===== Page 23 =====

2

■ 原油高は製造業中心に業績下押し圧力、全体では付加価値額を▲1.2％程度押し下げ 
本稿では、原油価格の上昇が各産業の付加価値額に与える影響を、産業連関表1を用いて、3つの経
路に分けて試算した。①各産業が直接投入する石油・石炭製品の価格上昇によるコスト増のうち、価
格転嫁せずに自産業で負担する分、②石油・石炭製品の価格上昇によるコスト増のうち、他産業が価
格転嫁を行った結果、仕入価格の上昇という形で自産業に波及する分、③企業の価格転嫁によって、
家計消費、設備投資、輸出といった最終需要が減少し、その需要減を通じて付加価値額が押し下げら
れる分である。すなわち、原油高の影響は、直接的なエネルギーコストの増加だけでなく、企業間取
引を通じた間接的なコスト波及と、価格上昇に伴う需要減少を通じて発現するものと想定した。 
図表2・3は、2026年の原油価格が1バレル=100
ドルで推移した場合の、付加価値額減少率を示
している。全体の付加価値額減少率は▲1.2％で
あり、特に製造業（▲2.3％）の下押し圧力がよ
り強い結果となった。製造業は原油高による直
接・間接のコスト増が大きいことに加え、価格
転嫁が進むことで 最終需要の下押し圧力が強
まり、業績への影響がコスト負担と需要減少の
両面から表れやすい。 
製造業の個別業種をみると、石油・石炭製品
（▲7.4％）、化学（▲6.3％）、鉄鋼（▲4.7％）
の落ち込みが目立つ。これらの業種は石油・石
炭製品を中間投入として多く用いるため、他産
業に相応の価格転嫁をしても 自産業に 負担が
図表2 原油高による企業の付加価値額減少率 
（1バレル＝100ドルの場合）

（出所） 日本銀行、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
図表3 原油高による業種別の付加価値額減少率（1バレル＝100ドルの場合）

（出所） 内閣府、日本銀行、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
▲ 1.2
▲ 3.4
▲ 2.0
▲ 6.3
▲ 7.4
▲ 2.6
▲ 4.7
▲ 1.9
▲ 1.8
▲ 1.3▲ 1.3
▲ 0.9
▲ 1.6
▲ 2.0
▲ 3.2
▲ 2.0
▲ 1.6
▲ 0.5
▲ 1.9
▲ 1.1▲ 1.6
▲ 0.1
▲ 0.5
▲ 0.8▲ 1.6
▲ 1.3
▲ 0.9
▲ 0.9
▲ 9
▲ 8
▲ 7
▲ 6
▲ 5
▲ 4
▲ 3
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
食料品
繊維製品
紙製品
化学
石油・石炭製品
窯業・土石製品
鉄鋼
非鉄金属
金属製品
一般機械
電気機械
情報通信機械
輸送用機械
農林水産
鉱業
建設
電力・ガス
情報通信
運輸・郵便
卸売
小売
不動産
物品賃貸
学術・専門・技術
宿泊・飲食
生活関連・娯楽
教育・学習支援
医療・福祉
製造業 非製造業
①コスト増のうち、自産業負担分
②他産業からの価格転嫁分
③価格転嫁による最終需要減
合計
（％）
▲ 1.2
▲ 2.3
▲ 1.0
▲ 3
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
全体 製造業 非製造業
①コスト増のうち、自産業負担分
②他産業からの価格転嫁分
③価格転嫁による最終需要減
合計
（％）

===== Page 24 =====

3

残りやすい（図中の①）。また、石油・石炭製品では他産業からの価格転嫁分（図中の②）が大きく
なっているが、これには原油高に伴う輸送費の上昇や、精製・流通工程で用いる化学製品、電力など
のコスト上昇が、運輸・郵便、化学、電力・ガスといった業種から価格転嫁されることが反映されて
いるとみられる。 
対照的に、製造業のなかでも輸送用機械や一般機械といった最終財に近い川下業種では、石油・石
炭製品の投入が川上業種ほど多くなく、原油高の直接的な影響（①）は小さい。幅広い川上業種から
の価格転嫁を受けるため、他産業からの価格転嫁による付加価値減（②）は相対的に大きいが、全体
としてみた付加価値額減少率はエネルギー多消費型の川上業種に比べると限定的だ。 
非製造業のなかでは、鉱業（▲3.2％）、建設（▲2.0％）、運輸・郵便（▲1.9％）、宿泊・飲食（▲
1.6％）などが相対的に大きな影響を受ける。鉱業は石油・石炭製品の投入比率が高く、原油高による
直接的なコスト増加の影響（①）を受けやすい。建設は主に燃料として石油・石炭製品を投入するほ
か、原油高の影響を受けやすい鉄鋼業がコスト増の一部を価格転嫁し、建設資材価格が上昇すること
などを受けて、付加価値額の下押し圧力が強まると考えられる。運輸・郵便は輸送にかかるエネルギ
ーコストの上昇が負担増に直結するほか、宿泊・飲食も電気・ガス代の上昇に加えて食料品や運輸な
どの値上がりが間接的に波及する。その他の非製造業種については、石油・石炭製品の直接的な投入
が限られるほか、素材の中間投入比率も低いため、原油高の影響は限定的とみられる。 
以上を踏まえると、原油高の影響は、石油・石炭製品の投入比率が高い製造業の川上業種で大きく
なると予想される。輸送用機械や一般機械など製造業の川下業種では、石油・石炭製品の直接投入よ
り川上業種からの価格転嫁がコスト増加要因になる。また、非製造業においても一部の業種では無視
できないほどに業績の下押し圧力が強まるだろう。 経済全体の付加価値額は1.2％減少すると試算され、
原油高が長期化するほどに、企業業績と経済全体に相応の下押し圧力をもたらすリスクが高まろう。

1 本稿の試算方法の概要は下記の通り。まず、原油価格の上昇を、産業連関表における石油・石炭製品部門の価格上昇ショック
として与えた。具体的には、各産業が石油・石炭製品をどの程度投入しているかを示す投入係数を用いて、原油高による直接的
なコスト上昇を算出した。そのうえで、各産業が受けたコスト増の一部を価格転嫁し、その価格上昇が取引先産業のコストをさ
らに押し上げるという産業間の価格波及を考慮した。ここでは、通常の産業連関分析で用いる投入係数行列に加え、産業別に設
定した価格転嫁率を対角成分に持つ行列を組み込み、価格転嫁が不完全であることを反映した。次に、こうして得られた各産業
の総コスト上昇を、①直接投入した石油・石炭製品価格の上昇のうち自産業で負担する部分、②他産業からの価格転嫁として受
けるコスト上昇のうち自産業で負担する部分、自産業で負担せず価格転嫁する部分、の 3 つに分解した。このうち、自産業で負
担せず価格転嫁する部分については、各産業の産出額に対する最終需要額の比率を用いて家計消費、民間総固定資本形成、輸出
の各最終需要に価格転嫁される金額を求め、産業別に設定した需要の価格弾力性を用いて需要減少額を試算した。さらに、需要
減少額に対して、輸入係数を考慮したレオンチェフ逆行列を用いて産出額への波及効果を計算し、最後に付加価値率を掛けるこ
とで、③価格転嫁による付加価値の減少額を計算した。なお、各産業の価格転嫁率や需要の価格弾力性については、業種特性な
どを考慮しつつ、生成 AI を活用して設定した。需要減のインパクトは、酒巻ほか（2022）「短期日本経済マクロ計量モデル
（2022 年版）の構造と乗数分析」の乗数を用いて求められる結果と概ね一致することを確認した。

===== Page 25 =====

© 2026 Mizuho Research & Technologies, Ltd.
2026年3月10日MHRT Global Watch 3月10日～米消費の行方を左右する2つの動き～投資の歪み①米企業で続くAI実装の模索。労働市場にAI投資の歪み

===== Page 26 =====

実績 予想米 ＩＳＭ製造業指数（2月） 52.4 51.8米 ＩＳＭ非製造業指数（2月） 56.1 53.5米 ADP民間雇用者数（2月） 前月差（万人） 6.3 5.0米 失業率 （2月） ％ 4.4 4.3米 非農業部門雇用者数（2月） 前月差（万人） ▲ 9.2 5.5米 時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（2月） 前月比（％） 0.4 0.3米 小売売上高（1月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.3欧 ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（2月） 前年比（％） 2.4 2.2欧 欧州委員会、産業加速法案を公表欧 ユーロ圏小売売上高（1月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.1 0.3中 製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） 49.0 49.1中 非製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） 49.5 -中 財新製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） 52.1 50.2中 財新サービス業ＰＭＩ（2月） 56.7 -中 中国全国人民代表大会（全人代）開幕（北京）中 消費者物価指数（2月） 前年比（％） 1.3 0.8日 法人企業統計・設備投資（全産業）（Q4） 前年比（％） 6.5 -日 名目賃金（現金給与総額）（1月） 前年比（％） 3.0 -

経済指標
足許の経済・金融状況と注目ポイント
2
（注）予想はLSEG、ブルームバーグが取りまとめた予想コンセンサス（出所）LSEG、ブルームバーグより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2026. 3. 10
企業景況感は製造業・非製造業とも事前予想を上回る堅調な結果。一方で雇用統計は予想外の悪化。労働市場の底入れ期待に冷や水もストライキや悪天候といった一時的な要因が下押しした可能性米国足許の経済・金融状況（総合評価）コア消費者物価は小幅加速。サービスが押し上げ。小売売上高はドイツの不振で5カ月ぶりのマイナス。欧州委員会は産業加速法案を公表。米中の産業政策に対抗する保護主義的な政策との位置づけ欧州2月の総合PMIは2カ月連続の50割れ。春節の時期ずれが影響。政府は2026年の成⾧率目標を「＋4.5～5.0％」に設定。積極的な財政と適度に緩和的な金融政策を維持する方針中国2025年10～12月期の経常利益は3期連続の増益を確保。限界利益率悪化も、売上増や人件費抑制が奏功。2026年の個人消費はまずまずのスタート。インフレ鈍化による消費マインドの改善が後押し日本

先週（3/2～3/10）発表の主な経済指標
①
②
企業の採用意欲は低調ながらも賃金の伸びは底堅さを維持。インフレ鈍化と相まって実質賃金の増加が消費を下支え。確定申告シーズン本格化で還付金の動向も消費の行方を左右
日本企業は内外需要の回復の追い風を受けて増益を確保。設備投資もAI関連や都市開発を中心に拡大。一方、中東情勢の緊迫化を背景とした原油高は企業コスト増に直結
注目点② 増益基調の中で浮上する油価高騰リスク注目点①米消費を左右する2つの動き

===== Page 27 =====

今週発表される経済指標（1）
（注）予想はLSEGが取りまとめた予想コンセンサス。矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成3
日付 実績 予想3/10 (火) 日本 ＧＤＰ（2次速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）- 1.2 0.23/10 (火) 日本実質消費支出（二人以上の全世帯）（1月） 前年比（％） - 2.5 ▲ 2.63/10 (火)米国 週間小売売上高（3月7日） 前年比（％） - - 7.03/10 (火)米国中古住宅販売戸数（2月） 万戸（年率） - 389 3913/10 (火)中国 貿易収支（2月） 10億ドル - 181.6 114.13/10 (火)中国輸入総額（ドル建て）（2月） 前年比（％） - 6.0 5.73/11 (水) 日本 国内企業物価指数（2月） 前年比（％） - 2.1 2.33/11 (水)米国 消費者物価指数（2月） 前年比（％） - 2.4 2.43/11 (水)米国消費者物価指数（前月比）（2月） 前月比（％） - 0 0.23/11 (水)米国消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（2月） 前年比（％） - 2.5 2.53/11 (水)米国 消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（2月）前月比（％） - 0.2 0.33/11 (水)米国財政収支（2月） 10億ドル - ▲ 67 ▲ 953/12 (木) 日本 法人企業景気予測調査（大企業・製造業）現状判断（Q1） ％Pt - - 4.73/12 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（3月7日） 万人 - 21.5 21.33/12 (木)米国貿易収支（1月） 10億ドル - ▲ 68.0 ▲ 70.33/12 (木)米国住宅着工件数（1月） 万戸（年率） - 135.0 140.43/12 (木)米国住宅着工許可件数（1月） 万戸（年率） - 140.5 145.5

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 28 =====

今週発表される経済指標（2）
（注）予想はLSEGが取りまとめた予想コンセンサス。矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成4
日付 実績 予想3/13 (金) 米国 耐久財受注（1月） 前月比（％） - 0.8 ▲ 1.43/13 (金)米国耐久財受注（除く輸送機器）（1月） 前月比（％） - 0.5 1.03/13 (金)米国非農業部門求人件数（JOLTS）（1月） 前月差（万件） - 670.0 654.23/13 (金)米国ミシガン大消費者信頼感指数（速報値）（3月） - 55.0 56.63/13 (金)米国個人所得（1月） 前月比（％） - 0.4 0.33/13 (金)米国消費支出（1月） 前月比（％） - 0.3 0.43/13 (金)米国実質消費支出（1月） 前月比（％） - - 0.13/13 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（1月） 前年比（％） - 2.8 2.93/13 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（1月）前月比（％） - 0.3 0.43/13 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前年比（％） - 3.0 3.03/13 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月）前月比（％） - 0.4 0.43/13 (金)米国ＧＤＰ（改定値）（Q3） 前期比年率（％）- - 4.33/13 (金)米国企業収益(税引後・速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）- - 4.73/13 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） - 0.5 ▲ 1.43/16 (月) 米国 鉱工業生産（2月） 前月比（％） - - 0.73/16 (月)米国設備稼働率　（2月） ％ - - 76.23/16 (月)米国ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数（3月） - - 7.13/16 (月)米国景気先行指数（1月） 前月比（％） - - ▲ 0.23/16 (月)中国 鉱工業生産（2月） 前年比（％） - 5.0 5.23/16 (月)中国小売売上高（2月） 前年比（％） - 2.5 0.93/16 (月)中国固定資産投資（2月） 前年比（％） - 1.5 ▲ 3.83/16 (月)インドネシア インドネシア金融政策決定会合（16･17日）

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 29 =====

米国：雇用統計は予想外の大幅減。ストライキや悪天候が下押しした面も2月の非農業部門雇用者数は前月差▲9.2万人と予想に反して大幅マイナス（市場予想：同＋5.5万人）― 過去2カ月も下方修正。製造業やサービス業など幅広いセクターで減少しており、足元で労働市場は安定化しつつあるとの見方に冷や水を浴びせる結果― ただし、これまで雇用増をけん引してきたヘルスケアについては、ストライキの影響が大きいとみられることに加え、建設や娯楽・宿泊では悪天候が下押ししており、その点は割り引く必要あり。来月以降で労働市場の実勢を見極め
5（出所）米労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
非農業部門雇用者数 天候・ストの影響が出やすい業種の雇用者数増減
（出所）米労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成▲ 20▲ 15▲ 10▲ 505101520
25/2 25/4 25/6 25/8 25/10 25/12 26/2
（前月差、万人）1月速報値
教育医療
娯楽・宿泊
建設
その他
▲ 25▲ 20▲ 15▲ 10▲ 505101520

25/9 25/10 25/11 25/12 26/1 26/2
（前月差、万人）
雇用者数は予想対比大きく下振れ
天候要因やストライキが影響した模様
注目点① 米消費の行方を左右する2つの動き
(年/月) (年/月)

===== Page 30 =====

米国：総じて弱い雇用統計の中でも賃金は堅調さを維持失業率は4.4％と前月（4.3％）から上昇― 離職による失業は減少したものの、一時的を含む解雇の増加や新たに職探しをする人の増加が失業者数を押し上げ―27週以上の長期失業者は189.9万人（1月181.3万人）と増加。労働者が失業状態から脱しにくい状況は継続時間当たり賃金は減速予想に対して前月比＋0.4％（1月同＋0.4％）と伸び横ばい― 前年比では＋3.8％（1月同＋3.7％）と小幅ながら伸び加速。インフレ鈍化も相まって実質賃金は堅調な伸びを維持しており、消費を下支え
6（出所）米労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
失業率 時間当たり賃金と物価の伸び
（出所）米労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
4.32%
4.44%
3.9%
4.0%
4.1%
4.2%
4.3%
4.4%
4.5%
4.6%
4.7%
25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
平均時給
インフレ率
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%

6%
7%
8%
22/1 22/7 23/1 23/7 24/1 24/7 25/1 25/7 26/1
（前年比）予想外の上昇も天候要因やストライキによる一時的解雇が押し上げた可能性
インフレ減速も相まって実質賃金の伸びは堅調
注目点① 米消費の行方を左右する2つの動き
(年/月) (年/月)

===== Page 31 =====

0102030405060708090
1月 2月 3月 4月 5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月11月12月
2024年2025年2026年
（10億ドル）
（各月）
▲ 0.8▲ 0.7▲ 0.6▲ 0.5▲ 0.4▲ 0.3▲ 0.2▲ 0.10.00.10.20.30.4
▲200
▲150
▲100
▲50
0
50
100
70 80 85 90 100 110 120 130
税還付総額―家計負担増GDP比（右軸）
（10億ドル）
（原油価格、ドル）
（％）還付額は前年をやや上回るペースで推移
米国：確定申告がスタート。家計所得増が見込まれるも、原油急騰が懸念材料1月下旬から確定申告のシーズンに突入。減税政策を背景に、還付総額は増加―2月の還付総額は、前年を小幅ながらも（前年差＋120億ドル程度）上回り始めている。税還付は今後本格化し、最終的な還付総額は前年差＋800億ドル程度（GDP比＋0.3％）となる見通しただし、イラン情勢により長期間の原油高が続けば、税還付による恩恵を帳消しに― 原油価格が85～90ドルを超え続けると年間800億ドル程度の家計負担増に。税還付による所得押し上げ効果を相殺。なお、足元の原油価格（同110ドル）が続く場合、税還付を含めても家計所得を下押し（GDP比▲0.3％Pt程度）へ

7
（注）原数値。2026年2月は、25年2月の個人向け税還付額（財務省）に、2月終盤時点までの税還付額（IRS）を足して計算した試算値（出所）米国財務省、IRSより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
個人向け税還付額の推移税還付総額―原油高による家計負担増
（注）原油価格（前年比）・失業率（前年差）・インフレ率（前年比）の3変数VARモデルを推計（月次データ） 。原油価格とインフレ率の関係性から家計負担増の規模を計算（出所）IRS、米国商務省、米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
注目点① 米消費の行方を左右する2つの動き
原油価格が85～90ドルを超え続けると、税還付を上回る家計負担増に

===== Page 32 =====

売上高限界利益率
人件費
減価償却費
営業外利益経常利益
▲ 15▲ 10▲ 505101520
24 25
（前期比、％）
（年）▲5▲4▲3▲2▲1012345
24 25
（前期比、％）
（年）
製造業ソフトウェア投資非製造業ソフトウェア投資
非製造業実物投資
製造業実物投資
設備投資計
日本：2025年10〜12月期は3期連続の増益。投資はAI関連や都市開発関連などで増加
8
2025年10～12月期は前期比＋1.6％と製造業中心に増益を確保―売上高が製造業・非製造業とも底堅い結果となったほか、情報通信やサービス業の人件費減少も経常利益を押し上げ― 一方、限界利益率は5四半期ぶりに悪化。非製造業の限界利益率の上昇一服が主因。一方、製造業は限界利益率が改善しており、9月の米国自動車関税引き下げに伴う輸出価格の上昇が一因と思料― 当面は内・外需の回復を背景に増益基調を見込むも、原油高や米国関税動向、日中関係悪化などのリスクには留意― 設備投資は情報通信や不動産の実物投資を中心に増加。データセンターや都市開発関連の投資が押し上げ

（注）季節調整値ベース（出所） 財務省「法人企業統計調査」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
経常利益（全規模・全産業）
売上増や人件費減が増益に寄与
設備投資（全規模・全産業）
（注）季節調整値ベース（出所） 財務省「法人企業統計調査」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
非製造業の実物投資が増加
注目点② 増益基調の中で浮上する油価高騰リスク

===== Page 33 =====

05010015020005010015020000 05 10 15 20 25
WTI原油価格企業物価（石油・石炭製品）（右目盛）（ドル） （2020年=100）
（年）
▲0.34▲0.83▲1.16▲2.14▲2.5▲2.0▲1.5▲1.0▲0.50.0
75ドル 90ドル 100ドル 130ドル
（％）
日本：油価高騰はコスト増に直結。WTIが90ドルなら付加価値額を最大0.83％Pt押し下げ
9
原油価格上昇はコスト増に直結。WTI原油価格が1％上昇すると、石油・石炭製品の企業物価は0.65％Pt程上昇― 石油・石炭製品の企業物価は、コロナ禍後の油価高騰を受けて急上昇した後、人件費増加等もあって高止まり。今後、原油価格が一段と上昇すれば、石油・石炭製品価格がさらに上昇し、幅広い企業のコスト増要因にWTI原油価格が1バレル＝90ドルまで上昇すると、コスト増を通じて企業の付加価値額を最大0.83％Pt押し下げ― 一義的には石油・石炭製品の投入割合が高い化学、鉄鋼、電力・ガス、運輸・郵便などの業種で、コスト負担が増加

（注）WTI原油価格は先物（期近物）の価格（出所） 日本銀行、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
WTI原油価格と企業物価（石油・石炭製品）
原油価格と石油・石炭製品の企業物価は連動
原油価格上昇による企業の付加価値額の減少幅
（注）原油価格が各水準で推移した場合の付加価値額（産出額－中間投入）の下振れ幅。原油価格上昇によるコスト増を転嫁せず、企業が全て負担すると仮定した場合の最大の付加価値の下振れ幅、原油価格はWTI原油価格の先物（期近物）（出所） 内閣府、日本銀行、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
原油価格が1バレル＝90ドルで推移した場合、付加価値額を最大▲0.83%押し下げ
石油・石炭製品の企業物価は、油価高騰を受け急上昇後、人件費増加等もあり高止まり
注目点② 増益基調の中で浮上する油価高騰リスク

===== Page 34 =====

020406080100
韓国 台湾ｲﾝﾄﾞタイ
その他海外中東由来(％)
アジア：中東情勢悪化の長期化はエネルギー価格の上昇を通じてインフレ再加速要因にアジアはエネルギー供給において中東に大きく依存― 韓国・台湾、ASEAN5、インドなど多くの国・地域で、エネルギーの中東からの輸入依存度が高い中東情勢悪化が長期化した場合、エネルギー価格上昇がインフレの押し上げ要因に― 韓国・台湾は石油備蓄が厚く、供給途絶への耐性は比較的高いものの、価格上昇は避け難い状況― 原油価格が10％上昇した場合、アジア新興国のインフレ率は0.2％Pt程度押し上げられる可能性。リスクオフ局面で通貨安が重なれば、輸入インフレ圧力は一段と強まるおそれ
10
（注）10％の原油価格上昇が、CPI総合に与える影響を、原油価格（WTI）、対米ドル為替レート、CPIを用いたVAR（コレスキー分解も同じ順番、ラグは2期）により試算。データ期間は2012年1月～25年9月、20年1月～22年12月を除く。90％信頼区間を表示（出所）各種報道、IEA、APERC、ERIA、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

アジアの資源供給構造：純輸入割合各国・地域の石油備蓄量と10％原油高の物価への影響度
（注）「中東由来」は、純輸入割合と輸入に占める中東比率（数量ベース）の積として算出。純輸入割合は、石油：（輸入－輸出）÷（生産＋輸入－輸出－在庫変動）から算出（バレルベース）、液化天然ガス：純輸入÷国内供給（実績、エネルギー量ベース）より算出。中東比率は、輸入数量に占める中東 （サウジアラビア、UAE、クウェート、イラク、オマーン、カタール）の割合（出所）UN Comtrade、台湾財政部、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
エネルギーの中東依存度が高い【液化天然ガス】【石油】 【石油備蓄量】【インフレ率への影響度】
耐性
国・地域 日数 年韓国210日以上2025台湾90日以上2023タイ61日2026フィリピン60日2026インド50日2026ベトナム46日2024マレーシア30日2022インドネシア20日2026
大
020406080100
韓国 台湾ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝｲﾝﾄﾞタイﾏﾚｰｼｱ

その他海外中東由来(％)
0.000.050.100.150.200.250.30NIEs ASEAN5
(水準への影響、12か月後、％)

===== Page 35 =====

米国56.1
ﾕｰﾛ圏51.9
日本53.8
中国49.549505152535455565724/10 24/12 25/2 25/4 25/6 25/8 25/10 25/12 26/2
（Pt）
（年/月）
米国52.4
ﾕｰﾛ圏50.8
日本53.0
中国49.045464748495051525324/1024/1225/225/425/625/825/1025/1226/2（年/月）
（Pt）
世界経済：製造業景況感は米欧日で節目50超え。非製造業は米で大きく上昇2月の製造業景況感は米国・ユーロ圏・日本が揃って節目50超え。一方、中国は低迷継続― 米国は前月から低下も高水準を維持し、欧州は大幅改善。一方、金属価格上昇等から共にコスト指数が急上昇― 日本は生産拡大を受け、前月の高水準からさらに改善。テクノロジー・自動車などで今後の需要増に前向きな声非製造業景況感は米国で急上昇。ユーロ圏・中国・日本は小幅に改善― 米国は新規受注の大幅上昇（58.6、1月：53.1）がけん引。幅広い業種で事業活動が拡大― ユーロ圏は前月からわずかに上昇。スペインが失速する一方、ドイツの改善が顕著（53.5、1月：52.4）

11
製造業の景況感（購買担当者景気指数）非製造業の景況感（購買担当者景気指数）
（注）米：ISM、日欧：S&P Global、中：国家統計局。購買担当者景気指数：企業に対するアンケート調査結果から作成した指数。新規受注や生産高、雇用、出荷遅延などの指数に一定のウエイトを掛けて算出。50が景気拡大・縮小の分岐点（出所）S&P Global、ISM、中国国家統計局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成（注）米：ISM、日欧：S&P Global、中：国家統計局。購買担当者景気指数（非製造業）：企業に対するアンケート調査結果から作成した指数。50が景気拡大・縮小の分岐点（出所）S&P Global、ISM、中国国家統計局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 36 =====

説明•公共調達・補助金において、鉄鋼、アルミ、セメント、自動車、ネットゼロ技術等を戦略分野に特定•鉄鋼、アルミ、コンクリート、モルタルに低炭素・「Made in EU」要件を義務化•蓄電池、太陽光発電、原子力技術、EV等に「Made in EU」要件を設定し、公共調達・補助金に連動• FTA、関税同盟、GPAに基づき、EUに対し市場開放している国の製品をEU産とみなす相互主義を採用•単一デジタル許可窓口と統合申請を導入し簡素化• EV、蓄電池、太陽光発電、重要原材料において世界生産の40％超を占める国に本拠を置く企業による1億ユーロ超のFDIに条件（EU資本過半、技術移転、EUバリューチェーン統合、欧州人雇用50％以上等）
内容
• 2030年までに鉄鋼、アルミ、セメント産業で6億ユーロ超、自動車バリューチェーン全体で最大105億ユーロの付加価値創出（合計でEUのGDPの約6％）•バッテリー（8万5000人）や太陽光発電（5万8000人）を含む数万人の雇用創出するほか、脱炭素過程での雇用保護•手続き簡素化により2億4,000万ユーロの行政コスト削減

経済効果
020406080100
土石・セメント
鉄鋼
風力発電機
リチウムイオン電池
太陽光パネル
自動車
その他インドASEAN米国日本中国
（％）
欧州：産業加速法は脱中国と第三国連携の両立を目指す方向性欧州委員会は産業加速法案を公表（3/4）。米中の産業政策に対抗する保護主義的な政策との位置づけ―3度の延期を経てようやく発表。2035年までに製造業GDPシェア20％超が目標（2024年：14.3％）産業加速法は脱中国を意識しつつも、貿易協定締結国にも配慮した内容に― 戦略分野の公共調達・補助金にEU産や低炭素要件。重要原材料やEV等で世界シェア40％超の企業によるFDIを制限―FTA等を締結する域外国にはEUへの市場開放等の要件を満たせば当該国製品をEU産とみなす相互主義を採用― ただし、FDI減少懸念やEU産要件の適用を巡り加盟国や英国等は反発。今後、保護主義的内容が緩和される可能性
12（出所） 欧州委員会より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
産業加速法のポイントEU：戦略分野に指定された代表的な品目の輸入シェア

（出所）Eurostatより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ネットゼロ技術を中心に中国依存大

===== Page 37 =====

サービス業平均
サービス業
RatingDogサービス
建設業4849505152535455565724/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
（％Pt）
（年/月）
製造業平均
総合
製造業
RatingDog製造業
48495051525324/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
（％Pt）
（年/月）
中国：PMIは国家統計局版と民間版で対照的な動き。季節調整で大きな差異が生じた可能性2月の総合PMI（国家統計局版）は49.5と、2カ月連続の50割れ。ただし、春節（旧正月）時期のずれが大きく影響― 建設業は48.2と、前月（48.8）から一段と悪化。現場労働者の帰省や建設プロジェクトの一時停止が響いた製造業PMIは、国家統計局版と民間版（RatingDog）で真逆の動き。季節調整で大きな差異が生じた可能性― 統計局版ではこれまで堅調だった生産が50割れ（49.6）。一方、民間版では輸出を含む新規受注が力強かった模様― 民間版は季節調整前の原系列データも公表されているが、こちらは前月から下落と統計局版に近い動きサービスPMIも同様に対照的で差異がより大きい。ただし、いずれも旅行業は春節の賑わいを受けて堅調だった

13
（注） 製造業平均は国家統計局版とRatingDogの単純平均（出所） 中国国家統計局、S&P Global、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
総合・製造業PMI（国家統計局版、RatingDog） サービス業・建設業PMI（国家統計局版、RatingDog）
（注） サービス業平均は国家統計局版とRatingDogの単純平均（出所） 中国国家統計局、S&P Global、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
製造業は、統計局版では生産が節目割れ、民間版では新規受注が強かった春節の影響で旅行業が堅調だった一方、建設業は停滞

===== Page 38 =====

中国：2026年の成長率目標は「＋4.5～5.0％」。補助金継続も、需要先食いで高い効果見込めず全人代が3/5に開幕し、李強総理が政府活動報告を発表。2026年の成長率目標を「＋4.5～5.0％」のレンジに設定― ただ、「より良い結果に努力」と目標超えにも意欲。「より積極的な」財政政策と「適度に緩和的な」金融政策を維持― 特別国債から2,500億元を充てて消費財の買い替え補助金を継続も、すでに需要を先食いしており高い効果見込めず― 金融政策は直面するデフレ圧力を意識し、預金準備率の引き下げや利下げなどの金融緩和を機動的に実施へ第15次五カ年計画（2026～30年）の策定に当たり、2035年に1人当たりGDPを2020年対比で倍増させる目標に言及― ハイテク技術の「自立自強」を意識しつつも、内需拡大で消費主導型への構造転換を図れるかが実現のカギに
14
（注） 地方政府専項債の発行実績は、次年度分の前倒し発行を含む（出所） 新華社、財政部、中国人民銀行、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

2026年の経済目標 2026年の経済運営方針
（注） 「両重」は国家重要戦略の実施と重点分野の安全能力の建設を、「両新」は耐久消費財の買い替え補助金と製造業などへの設備更新支援策を指す（出所） 新華社より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2025年実績2026年目標項目 ＋5.0％＋4.5～5.0％実質GDP成長率 ＋0.0％＋2.0％前後消費者物価指数（CPI） 1,267万人1,200万人以上都市部新規就業者数5.2％5.5％前後都市部調査失業率5.66兆元（4.0％）5.89兆元（4.0％）一般公共財政赤字（対GDP比） 1.8兆元1.6兆元特別国債 4.6兆元4.4兆元地方政府専項債8.5％8.3％経済成長と物価水準の目標と一致マネーサプライ（M2）社会融資総額残高
政策内容項目•「質の高い発展」。内需拡大と供給最適化•雇用・企業・市場・先行き期待の安定に注力基本方針•財政：より積極的。財政支出の規模を維持。「両重」プロジェクトと「両新」政策を継続•金融：適度に緩和的。物価の合理的な上昇を勘案し、機動的・効率的に利下げなど実施

マクロ政策
•強大な国内市場の建設。消費促進、投資拡大•新興産業など成長源の育成。「AI＋」の展開•科学技術の「自立自強」。コア技術の突破•重点領域の改革。全国統一大市場の建設•高水準の対外開放。「一帯一路」の共同建設
産業政策

===== Page 39 =====

非耐久財耐久財
サービス
旅行収支要因
消費活動指数（実質消費）
▲6
▲4
▲2024623 24 25 26
（2022年10～12月期対比、％）
（年）
連合方針連合方針
連合方針
組合要求組合要求6.09％ 組合要求5.94％最終回答
最終回答5.25％
0123456789
22 23 24 25 26
（％）
5％以上
5％以上
（年）
日本：労組は強気の賃上げ要求。賃上げ継続は消費の追い風となるも、原油高が懸念材料
労働組合は実質賃金の増加を目指す強気の要求。26年は3年連続となる5％台の賃上げが実現する可能性― 人手不足に直面する企業は人材確保や労働意欲維持の観点から、実質賃金増加の必要性を労組と共有1月の消費活動指数は前月比＋0.4％と消費はサービス消費主導で回復。今後も賃上げ継続とインフレ鈍化で回復継続へ―インフレ鈍化に伴うマインド改善も消費の押し上げ要因。食品など非耐久財の下振れも徐々に緩和へ― ただし、足元の原油高には留意。90ドル以上の原油高が長期化すれば、実質賃金のプラス転化が実現しない可能性― 原油高は消費マインドの悪化を介して消費下押しのリスク。原油高で企業収益が悪化すれば27年度の賃上げにも影響

15（出所） 連合「春季生活闘争」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
春闘賃上げ率 消費活動指数の推移（四半期データ）
（注）消費活動指数は旅行収支調整済の実質ベース。2026年1～3月期は1月の実績値（出所）日本銀行「消費活動指数」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
サービス消費主導で消費回復。インフレ鈍化で非耐久財消費の下振れも徐々に緩和労組は強気の賃上げ要求26年も5％台の賃上げ実現へ

===== Page 40 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（1）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成16
日付 実績2/10 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（2月2日） 前年比（％） 6.5 6.72/10 (火)米国小売売上高（12月） 前月比（％） 0.0 0.62/10 (火)米国雇用コスト指数（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.7 0.82/11 (水) 米国 失業率 （1月） ％ 4.3 4.42/11 (水)米国非農業部門雇用者数（1月） 前月差（万人） 13.0 4.82/11 (水)米国時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（1月） 前年比（％） 3.7 3.72/11 (水)米国 時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（1月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.12/11 (水)米国財政収支（1月） 10億ドル ▲ 95 ▲ 1452/11 (水)中国 消費者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 0.2 0.82/12 (木) 日本 国内企業物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.3 2.42/12 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月2日） 万人 22.9 23.22/12 (木)米国中古住宅販売戸数（1月） 万戸（年率） 391.0 427.02/13 (金) 米国 消費者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.4 2.72/13 (金)米国消費者物価指数（前月比）（1月） 前月比（％） 0.2 0.32/13 (金)米国消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.5 2.62/13 (金)米国 消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月）前月比（％） 0.3 0.22/13 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏ＧＤＰ（2次速報値）（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.3 0.32/16 (月) 日本 ＧＤＰ（1次速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）0.2 ▲ 2.32/16 (月) 日本設備稼働率（12月） 前月比（％） 1.3 ▲ 5.32/16 (月)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏鉱工業生産（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 0.3

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 41 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（2）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成17
日付 実績2/17 (火) 米国 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数（2月） 7.1 7.72/18 (水) 日本 貿易収支（貿易統計）（1月） 億円 ▲ 11,527 1,135 ↑2/18 (水) 日本輸出（1月） 前年比（％） 16.8 5.12/18 (水) 日本輸入（1月） 前年比（％） ▲ 2.5 5.2 ↓2/18 (水)米国 週間小売売上高（2月9日） 前年比（％） 7.2 6.52/18 (水)米国鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） 0.7 0.22/18 (水)米国設備稼働率　（1月） ％ 76.2 75.72/18 (水)米国耐久財受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 5.4 ↑2/18 (水)米国耐久財受注（除く輸送機器）（12月） 前月比（％） 0.9 0.5 ↑2/18 (水)米国ネット対米長期証券投資（12月） 10億ドル 28.0 206.6 ↓2/18 (水)米国住宅着工件数（11月） 万戸（年率） 132.2 127.22/18 (水)米国住宅着工許可件数（11月） 万戸（年率） 138.8 141.12/18 (水)インドネシア インドネシア金融政策決定会合（18･19日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/19 (木) 日本 機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（12月） 前年比（％） 16.8 ▲ 6.42/19 (木) 日本 機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（12月）前月比（％） 19.1 ▲ 11.02/19 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月9日） 万人 20.6 22.92/19 (木)米国貿易収支（12月） 10億ドル ▲ 70.3 ▲ 53.02/19 (木)米国中古住宅販売仮契約指数（1月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.8 ▲ 7.4 ↑2/19 (木)米国フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数（2月） 16.3 12.62/19 (木)米国景気先行指数（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.32/19 (木)フィリピン フィリピン金融政策決定会合

4.75%に据え置き
経済指標等 前回
0.25%引き下げて4.25%

===== Page 42 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（3）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成18
日付 実績2/20 (金) 日本 全国消費者物価（総合）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.5 2.12/20 (金) 日本全国消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.0 2.42/20 (金)米国 ミシガン大消費者信頼感指数（確報値）（2月） 56.6 57.32/20 (金)米国個人所得（12月） 前月比（％） 0.3 0.42/20 (金)米国消費支出（12月） 前月比（％） 0.4 0.42/20 (金)米国実質消費支出（12月） 前月比（％） 0.1 0.22/20 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（12月） 前年比（％） 2.9 2.82/20 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（12月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.22/20 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月） 前年比（％） 3.0 2.82/20 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.22/20 (金)米国新築住宅販売戸数（11月） 万戸（年率） 75.8 65.62/20 (金)米国ＧＤＰ（速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）1.4 4.42/20 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏総合ＰＭＩ（速報値）（2月） 51.9 51.32/23 (月) 米国 製造業新規受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.7 2.72/23 (月)ドイツ 独ｉｆｏ企業景況感指数（2月） 88.6 87.6

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 43 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（4）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成19
日付 実績2/24 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（2月16日） 前年比（％） 6.7 7.22/24 (火)米国カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数（2月） 91.2 89.0 ↑2/24 (火)米国S&P/ケース・シラー住宅価格（20都市）（12月） 前年比（％） 1.4 1.42/25 (水) ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（改定値）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.7 1.72/25 (水)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（改定値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.2 2.22/25 (水)タイ タイ金融政策決定会合2/26 (木) 米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月16日） 万人 21.2 20.82/26 (木)韓国 韓国金融政策決定会合2/27 (金) 日本 鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） 2.2 ▲ 0.12/27 (金) 日本百貨店・スーパー販売額（1月） 前年比（％） 3.0 1.0 ↓2/27 (金) 日本新設住宅着工戸数（1月） 前年比（％） ▲ 0.4 ▲ 1.32/27 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（総合）（2月） 前年比（％） 1.6 1.52/27 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）　（2月） 前年比（％） 1.8 2.02/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.9 3.02/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（1月）前月比（％） 0.5 0.42/27 (金)米国生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前年比（％） 3.6 3.32/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月）前月比（％） 0.8 0.62/27 (金)米国シカゴ地区購買部協会景気指数（ＰＭＩ）（2月） 57.7 54.03/2 (月) 米国 ＩＳＭ製造業指数（2月） 52.4 52.6

0.25ポイント引き下げて1.00％
2.5%に据え置き
経済指標等 前回

===== Page 44 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（5）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成20
日付 実績3/3 (火) 日本 完全失業率（1月） ％ 2.7 2.63/3 (火) 日本有効求人倍率（1月） 倍 1.2 1.2 ↑3/3 (火) 日本法人企業統計・設備投資（全産業）（Q4） 前年比（％） 6.5 2.93/3 (火)米国 週間小売売上高（2月23日） 前年比（％） 7.0 6.73/3 (火)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（2月） 前年比（％） 1.9 1.73/3 (火)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（2月） 前年比（％） 2.4 2.23/4 (水) 日本 消費者態度指数（2月） 40.0 37.93/4 (水)米国 ＩＳＭ非製造業指数（2月） 56.1 53.83/4 (水)米国ADP民間雇用者数（2月） 前月差（万人） 6.3 1.1 ↓3/4 (水)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏総合ＰＭＩ（確報値）（2月） 51.9 51.93/4 (水)中国 製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） 49.0 49.33/4 (水)中国非製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） 49.5 49.43/4 (水)中国財新製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） 52.1 50.33/4 (水)中国財新サービス業ＰＭＩ（2月） 56.7 52.33/5 (木) 米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月23日） 万人 21.3 21.33/5 (木)米国労働生産性（速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）2.8 5.2 ↑3/5 (木)米国単位労働コスト（速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）2.8 ▲ 1.8 ↑3/5 (木)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏小売売上高（1月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.1 0.2 ↑3/5 (木)マレーシア マレーシア金融政策決定会合（6日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　3/6 (金) 米国 失業率 （2月） ％ 4.4 4.33/6 (金)米国非農業部門雇用者数（2月） 前月差（万人） ▲ 9.2 12.6 ↓3/6 (金)米国時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（2月） 前年比（％） 3.8 3.73/6 (金)米国 時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（2月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.43/6 (金)米国小売売上高（1月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.2 0.03/6 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏ＧＤＰ（改定値）（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.2 0.33/9 (月) 日本 経常収支（1月） 億円 9,416 7,2883/9 (月) 日本景気ウォッチャー調査（2月） 現状判断ＤＩ 48.9 47.63/9 (月)中国 消費者物価指数（2月） 前年比（％） 1.3 0.2

2.75%に据え置き
経済指標等 前回

===== Page 45 =====

巻末資料 日本 四半期スケジュール（3～6月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
3月 4月 5月 6月2 新車販売台数(2月) 1 日銀短観(3月調査) 1 消費者物価(4月都区部) 1 法人企業統計調査(1～3月期)3 労働力調査(1月) 1 新車販売台数(3月) 1 新車販売台数(4月) 1 新車販売台数(5月)3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 7 家計調査(2月) 7 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨 5 毎月勤労統計(4月速報)3 一般職業紹介(1月) 7 景気動向指数(2月) 8 毎月勤労統計(3月速報) 5 景気動向指数(4月)3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 8 国際収支(2月速報) 12 景気動向指数(3月) 5 家計調査(4月)4 消費動向調査(2月) 8 景気ウォッチャー調査(3月) 12 家計調査(3月) 8 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期2次速報)9 景気動向指数(1月) 8 毎月勤労統計(2月速報) 13 国際収支(3月速報) 8 景気ウォッチャー調査(5月)9 国際収支(1月速報) 9 消費動向調査(3月) 13 景気ウォッチャー調査(4月) 8 国際収支(4月速報)9 景気ウォッチャー調査(2月) 10 企業物価指数(3月) 14 マネーストック(4月速報) 9 マネーストック(5月速報)9 毎月勤労統計(1月速報) 13 マネーストック(3月速報) 15 企業物価指数(4月) 10 企業物価指数(5月)10 家計調査(1月) 14 設備稼働率(2月) 19 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期1次速報) 11 法人企業景気予測調査(4～6月期)10 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期2次速報) 15 機械受注統計(2月) 19 設備稼働率(3月) 12 設備稼働率(4月)10 マネーストック(2月速報) 22 貿易統計(3月) 21 貿易統計(4月) 15 日銀金融政策決定会合(15・16日)11 企業物価指数(2月) 24 消費者物価(3月全国) 22 消費者物価(4月全国) 16 日銀総裁定例記者会見12 法人企業景気予測調査(1～3月期) 27 日銀金融政策決定会合(27・28日) 29 消費者物価(5月都区部) 17 貿易統計(5月)17 第3次産業活動指数(1月) 28 日銀｢経済･物価情勢の展望」(基本的見解) 29 労働力調査(4月) 19 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨18 貿易統計(2月) 28 日銀総裁定例記者会見 29 一般職業紹介(4月) 19 消費者物価(5月全国)18 資金循環統計(10～12月期速報) 28 労働力調査(3月) 29 消費動向調査(5月) 25 資金循環統計(1～3月期速報)18 日銀金融政策決定会合(18・19日) 28 一般職業紹介(3月) 29 鉱工業生産(4月速報) 26 消費者物価(6月都区部)19 設備稼働率(1月) 30 住宅着工統計(3月) 29 商業動態統計(4月速報) 29 商業動態統計(5月速報)19 日銀総裁定例記者会見 30 消費動向調査(4月) 30 労働力調査(5月)19 機械受注統計(1月) 30 鉱工業生産(3月速報) 30 一般職業紹介(5月)24 消費者物価(2月全国) 30 商業動態統計(3月速報) 30 鉱工業生産(5月速報)25 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨31 労働力調査(2月)31 消費者物価(3月都区部)31 商業動態統計(2月速報)31 鉱工業生産(2月速報)31 住宅着工統計(2月)31 一般職業紹介(2月)

日 本

===== Page 46 =====

巻末資料 米国・欧州 四半期スケジュール（3～6月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
3月 4月 5月 6月2 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(2月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(3月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(4月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(5月)4 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(2月) 2 貿易収支(2月) 5 貿易収支(3月) 3 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(5月)4 ベージュブック(地区連銀経済報告) 3 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(3月) 5 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(4月) 3 ベージュブック(地区連銀経済報告)5 労働生産性(10～12月期改定) 3 雇用統計(3月) 5 貿易収支(3月) 4 労働生産性(1～3月期改定)6 雇用統計(2月) 7 FOMC議事録(3/17・18分) 7 労働生産性(1～3月期暫定) 5 雇用統計(5月)6 小売売上高(1月) 7 米3年国債入札 8 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月速報) 9 中古住宅販売件数(5月)10 中古住宅販売件数(2月) 8 米10年国債入札 8 雇用統計(4月) 9 貿易収支(4月)10 米3年国債入札 9 個人所得・消費支出(2月) 11 中古住宅販売件数(4月) 9 米3年国債入札11 ＣＰＩ(2月) 9 米30年国債入札 11 米3年国債入札 9 貿易収支(4月)11 米10年国債入札 10 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月速報) 12 ＣＰＩ(4月) 10 ＣＰＩ(5月)12 貿易収支(1月) 10 ＣＰＩ(3月) 12 米10年国債入札 10 米10年国債入札12 ＰＰＩ(2月) 13 中古住宅販売件数(3月) 13 ＰＰＩ(4月) 11 ＰＰＩ(5月)12 米30年国債入札 14 ＰＰＩ(3月) 13 米30年国債入札 11 米30年国債入札12 住宅着工・許可件数(1月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(5月) 12 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(6月速報)13 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月速報) 15 ネット対米証券投資(2月) 15 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(4月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(6月)13 耐久財受注(1月) 15 ベージュブック(地区連銀経済報告) 18 ネット対米証券投資(3月) 15 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(5月)13 個人所得・消費支出(1月) 16 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 19 FOMC議事録(4/28・29分) 16 FOMC(16・17日)13 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期暫定) 16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(3月) 19 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(4月) 16 米20年国債入札16 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 21 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(3月) 20 米20年国債入札 17 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(5月)16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(2月) 22 米20年国債入札 21 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(5月) 18 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(6月)17 FOMC(17・18日) 24 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月確報) 22 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月確報) 18ネット対米証券投資(4月)17 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(2月) 27 米5年国債入札 25 経常収支(10～12月期) 24 経常収支(1～3月期)17 米20年国債入札 27 米2年国債入札 26 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(3月) 24 米5年国債入札18 ネット対米証券投資(1月) 28 FOMC(28・29日) 27 米5年国債入札 25 個人所得・消費支出(5月)18 製造業新規受注(1月) 28 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(2月) 28 個人所得・消費支出(4月) 25 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期確定)19 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 28 米7年国債入札 28 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期暫定) 25 米7年国債入札19 新築住宅販売件数(1月) 30 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(4月) 28 米7年国債入札 25 個人所得・消費支出(5月)24 米2年国債入札 30 個人所得・消費支出(3月) 28 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期暫定) 26 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(6月確報)25 米5年国債入札 30 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期速報) 29 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(5月) 30 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(6月)26 米7年国債入札 30 雇用コスト指数(1～3月期) 30 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(4月)27 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月確報)27 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期確定)31 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(3月)31 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(1月)

18 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(18・19日) 29 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(29・30日) 10 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(10・11日)19 英中銀金融政策委員会(19日) 30 英中銀金融政策委員会(30日) 18 英中銀金融政策委員会(18日)
米　国
欧　州

===== Page 47 =====

みずほリポート政権発足1年からみえた『トランプ流国家資本主義』の正体～日本企業が生き抜くための「攻め」と「守り」の戦略～（2026年1月20日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2026年1月作成
URLQRコード
ポイント①新自由主義の反動から生まれた『トランプ流国家資本主義』とは？ポイント② 『トランプ流国家資本主義』は米経済・ビジネスをどう変えるのか？ポイント③新たな米資本主義体制の中で、日系企業に求められる対応は？ポイント④ポスト・トランプで国家資本主義はどう変わるか？レポート
大統領権限を活用し経済安保分野の成⾧を促す一方、政策不確実性や物価高を助⾧。日本企業には同分野で好機だが、情報収集やコスト対応等が課題
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2026-0004/index.html
23

===== Page 48 =====

みずほリポート2026年の米経済は雇用を伴う成⾧へ回帰～財政政策と対米投資が国内需要を喚起～（2025年12月26日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2025年12月作成
URLQRコードポイント① 2025年は『雇用なき成⾧』ポイント② 2026年は『雇用を伴う成⾧』へポイント③ 迫る中間選挙レポート
トランプ政権が各国と結んだ対米投資案件は、徐々に実行段階へ。大規模な減税政策も内需の押し上げ要因となり、小規模企業の雇用マインドも上向きに
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2025-0164/index.html24

===== Page 49 =====

===== Page 50 =====

1

年率＋1.3％と1 次速報から上方 
修正（10～12 月期2 次QE）

○ 2025年10～12月期の実質GDP（2次速報値）は前期比＋0.3％ （年率＋1.3％）と、1次速報の前期比＋
0.1％（年率＋0.2％）から上方修正 
○ 設備投資の大幅な上振れに加えて、1次速報で精彩を欠いた個人消費も上方修正。総じてみれば10
～12月期の日本経済は緩やかに拡大したと評価 
○ 中東情勢の悪化による原油価格の高騰が今後も続く場合、主に4月以降の景気下振れリスクに。原
油価格が90ドル／バレル程度で推移すると、GDPを0.2％程度下押しする可能性

10～12月期の実質GDP（2
次速報値）は1次速報から
上方修正。設備投資の上
振れが主因 
2025年10～12月期の実質GDP成長率（2次速報値）は、前期比＋0.3％（年
率＋1.3％）と、1次速報の前期比＋0.1％ （年率＋0.2％） から上方修正とな
った（図表）。法人企業統計調査の結果を受けて、設備投資のプラス幅が大
きく拡大したことが主な要因である。また、GDPの約半分を占める個人消費
も1次速報から上方修正された。総じてみれば、10～12月期の日本経済は緩
やかに拡大したと評価できる。以下、 需要項目別に10～12月期の経済動向に
ついて見ていこう。

図表 2025 年 10～12 月期GDP（2 次速報）

(注) 図の項目別寄与度の合計は、誤差により実質GDP に完全に一致しない。表の値は、言及がない限り実質前期比（％） 、括弧内は実質GDP
前期比に対する寄与度（％Pt） 。最新四半期の赤色は上方修正、青色は下方修正を意味する 
(出所) 内閣府「四半期別GDP 速報」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
▲0.8
▲0.6
▲0.4
▲0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2024 2025
（前期比、％）
設備投資
個人消費
公的
需要
在庫投資
実質GDP
外需
（四半期）
（年）
住宅投資
2024 2025
10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12
実質GDP 0.5 0.3 0.6 ▲0.7 0.3 0.1 
（前期比年率） 1.9 1.1 2.4 ▲2.6 1.3 0.2 
（前年比） 0.6 1.6 2.1 0.7 0.4 0.1 
内需 ▲0.3 0.9 0.5 ▲0.4 0.3 0.0 
民需 ▲0.4 1.2 0.5 ▲0.4 0.4 0.1 
個人消費 0.0 0.7 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.1 
住宅投資 0.6 ▲0.2 0.0 ▲8.4 4.9 4.8 
設備投資 ▲0.5 0.5 1.2 ▲0.0 1.3 0.2 
在庫投資 (▲0.2) (0.4) (0.0) (▲0.2) (▲0.3) (▲0.2)
公需 ▲0.2 ▲0.1 0.5 ▲0.1 0.2 ▲0.2 
政府消費 0.0 ▲0.2 0.7 0.1 0.4 0.1 
公共投資 ▲0.5 ▲0.1 0.2 ▲1.3 ▲0.5 ▲1.3 
外需 (0.8) (▲0.6) (0.1) (▲0.3) (▲0.0) (0.0)
輸出 1.7 ▲0.2 1.9 ▲1.4 ▲0.3 ▲0.3 
輸入 ▲1.9 2.5 1.4 ▲0.1 ▲0.3 ▲0.3 
名目GDP 1.1 0.9 2.2 ▲0.0 0.9 0.6 
GDPデフレーター（前年比） 3.0 3.6 3.2 3.5 3.4 3.4 
1次QE
図表 3 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数  図表4 民間総賃金指数

2026 年 3 月 10 日 
Ｑ Ｅ 解 説 
調査部  
チーフ日本経済エコノミスト 
服部直樹 
080-1069-4667 
naoki.hattori@mizuho-rt.co.jp

===== Page 51 =====

2

設備投 資が大きく 上方修
正 
法人企業統計 調査 の結果 を受けて 、10～12月期の 設備投資は 前期比＋
1.3％と、1次速報（同＋0.2％）から大きく上方修正された。今回の公表に
あわせて7～9月期も同▲0.3％から同▲0.0％へ上方修正されており、 設備投
資が拡大基調を維持していることを示す結果だ。 
法人企業統計 調査を用いて10～12月期の設備投資額 （ソフトウェアを含
む、 金融・ 保険を除く、 季節調整値）を業種別にみると、製造業が同▲0.2％
（7～9月期 ： 同▲5.6％）とわずかに減少した一方、 非製造業が同＋5.4％（7
～9月期：同＋1.5％）と大きく増加して全体を押し上げた。7～9月期は米国
関税政策による不確実性の高まりが製造業を中心に設備投資の抑制要因に
なったが、7月の日米関税合意やその後の対米輸出回復を受け、10～12月期
は製造業の投資減少が概ね一服した格好だ。 非製造業では主に実物投資が増
加しており、 旺盛なAI関連需要を受けてデータセンター関連の投資が進捗し
たとみられる。 
日銀短観12月調査では、大企業・製造業の業況判断DIが3四半期連続で改
善したほか、 大企業・非製造業の業況判断DIも高い水準が続いており、企業
の景況感は堅調だ。同調査では、2025年度の設備投資計画も良好な水準を維
持しており、 企業の投資意欲は引き続き旺盛である。 とりわけ、 中小企業の
ソフトウェア投資計画の伸び率が高く、 人手不足のなかでDX・ 省力化需要が
根強いことを示している。 
10～12月期の企業業績についてみると、 法人企業統計調査では 経常利益
（金融・保険を除く全産業、季節調整値）が前期比＋1.6％（7～9月期：＋
3.8％）と3四半期連続で増加した。業種別では、製造業が同＋9.8％と大幅
に増加した。AI関連需要の好調さを背景に、半導体の製造装置や素材、デー
タセンター関連設備などが押し上げ要因になったとみられる。他方で、非製
造業は同▲2.6％と5四半期ぶりに減少した。人手不足を受けた省力化投資や
DX投資のニーズからIT関連業種が好調に推移した一方、食品を中心に消費者
の節約志向が高まり、コストの価格転嫁ペースが鈍って小売業の利益率を圧
迫した可能性がある。 
在庫投資は 1次速報から
下方修正 
民間在庫投資は、法人企業統計調査による原材料在庫や仕掛品在庫の推計
値が新たに反映され、実質GDP前期比に対する寄与度が▲0.3％Ptと、1次速
報（同▲0.2％Pt）から下方修正された。 
個人消費 は1次速報 から
上方修正 
10～12月期の個人消費は前期比＋0.3％と、1次速報（同＋0.1％）から上方
修正された。同時に、7～9月期も同＋0.4％から同＋0.5％へと小幅に上方修
正されている。10～12月期の個人消費について、1次速報段階では「力強さ
を欠いた」と評価していたが、2次速報の結果は消費が緩やかな拡大傾向を
維持していることを示していると言えよう。

===== Page 52 =====

3

2次速報の結果を品目別にみると、耐久財消費が前期比＋2.0％と堅調に増
加した。スマートフォン新製品の販売が好調だったほか、自治体の補助制度
を受けたエアコン購入の増加や、OSのサポート終了に伴うPC買い替え需要の
継続が押し上げ要因になったとみられる。冬季ボーナスの高い伸びや、 株価
の上昇による消費性向の高まり （資産効果） も、高額品の消費拡大に影響し
た可能性があろう。 また、 サービス消費は前期比＋0.3％と、小幅ながら4四
半期連続で増加した。家族客などを中心に外食需要が良好であったことに加
え、年末年始の輸送需要も底堅く推移した。 
一方、非耐久財消費は前期比▲0.4％、半耐久財消費は同＋0.0％と、弱い
動きになった。非耐久財では食品を中心に価格が相対的に高まっており、 家
計が財布のひもを締めて購入数量を減らしているようだ。半耐久財では衣料
品関連が伸び悩んでおり、 年末にかけて平年より気温が高く冬物の売れ行き
が鈍ったとみられるほか、 食品などの価格上昇による節約志向が影響した可
能性がある。 
所得面では、12月の所定内給与 （共通事業所ベース、確報）が前年比＋2.3％
（11月：同＋2.0％） と、2％前後の緩やかな上昇傾向を維持している。ただ
し、物価上昇の影響を除いた実質ベースの所定内給与は、昨年末時点ではま
だはっきりとしたプラスにはなっていない。12月の消費者物価指数 （持家の
帰属家賃を除く総合） が前年比＋2.4％と、11月 （同＋3.3％）から減速した
ものの、引き続き賃金上昇率を超えているためだ。消費がさらに力強く拡大
するためには、インフレを上回る賃金上昇による実質賃金の継続的な改善が
不可欠といえる。 
住宅投資は 1次速報と同
様に前期の落ち込みから
回復 
住宅投資は前期比＋4.9％と、 ほぼ1次速報 （同＋4.8％）通りの結果になっ
た。住宅市場では、2025年4月から新築住宅の省エネ基準適合が義務化され
たことで、 着工の駆け込みと反動減が発生し、 建設進捗ベースで7～9月期の
住宅投資が大幅に落ち込んだ。10月にはようやく着工件数が駆け込み前の水
準近くまで回復し、10～12月期の住宅投資を支える要因になった。 
公的需要では、公共投資・
政府消費ともに上方修正 
公共投資では、底堅い結果になった12月分の建設総合統計の結果が反映さ
れ、前期比▲0.5％と1次速報（同▲1.3％）からマイナス幅が縮小した。建
設労働者の人手不足 や建設コストの上昇 などが引き続き下押し要因になっ
たものの、 防災 ・減災や国土強靭化の推進に関する公共事業が徐々に進捗し
つつあるとみられる。 
また、政府消費も前期比＋0.4％と1次速報 （同＋0.1％） から上方修正され
た。医療関連需要などの増加が影響したとみられる。 公的需要全体では前期
比＋0.2％と、1次速報（同▲0.2％）から上振れした。

===== Page 53 =====

4

外需は輸出入ともに 1次
速報通りの結果 
外需は、 輸出が前期比▲0.3％、 輸入が同▲0.3％と、ともに1次速報通りの
結果になった。 
財輸出は前期比▲0.3％と、1次速報同様に小幅減少となった。10～12月期
の財輸出動向について、日本銀行が公表する実質輸出指数では中国向けが前
期比▲1.3％と減少しており、特に機械関連の輸出が伸び悩んでいる。中国
国内の景気減速に伴う設備投資の抑制や、 現地企業との競争激化が影響した
可能性があろう。一方、米国向けは前期比＋3.3％と増加しており、なかで
も自動車などの輸送用機器が牽引役となった。7月の日米関税合意を受けた
自動車関税の引き下げが9月に実施されたことに加え、米国のEV購入補助廃
止がハイブリッド車に強みをもつ日本車メーカーの現地販売増加につなが
り、輸出を促した可能性がある。 
サービス輸出も前期比▲0.4％と小幅に減少した。GDP統計でインバウンド
需要を表す「非居住者家計の国内での直接購入」が、前期比▲0.6％（7～9
月期：同▲8.6％）とマイナスになったことが影響した。10～12月期の訪日
外客数は、日本の地震関連情報の拡散を受けた7～9月期の落ち込みから回復
したものの、 日中対立の影響で中国からの訪日客が減少し伸び悩んでいる状
況だ。 また、10～12月期における訪日客の消費単価は、 前年に比べて▲0.5％
と小幅に下落した。特に、中国人訪日客の買物代の落ち込みが顕著であり、
いわゆる 「おひとりさま」旅行や 「コト消費」の増加といった中国人訪日客
の行動変化が現れている可能性がある。 
輸入面では、1次速報と同様に、デジタル関連を中心としてサービス輸入
が前期比＋1.1％と増加した一方、 財輸入が同▲0.8％と減少した。財輸入を
国・地域別にみると、 特にEUからの輸入が足元で減少している。また、 品目
別では主に輸送用機器や化学製品、食料品が輸入の押し下げ要因になった。 
2次速報でも1次速報と同様に、 輸出・輸入が同程度の減少幅になったこと
から、実質GDP成長率に対する外需の寄与度は▲0.0％Ptと1次速報からほぼ
変化しなかった。 
GDP デフ レータ ー は高い
伸びが継続 
GDPデフレーターは前年比＋3.4％と、1次速報から変わらず高めの伸びに
なった。GDPの控除項目である輸入のデフレーターが、昨年末の原油価格の
落ち着きなどを受けて 前年比▲0.1％と3四半期連続のマイナス になったほ
か、 価格転嫁の広がりなどを通じて国内で生産される財 ・ サービスの価格上
昇が続いたことが背景にある。 
輸入デフレーターが低下した一方、 欧州・アジア向けを中心とした輸出価
格の引上げを背景に輸出デフレーターが上昇したことで、10～12月期の交易
条件 （輸出デフレーターと輸入デフレーターの比率） は前年対比で改善した。
こうした交易条件の改善は、 国内生産の採算性向上や、 輸入産品の相対的な

===== Page 54 =====

5

価格抑制を通じて、企業業績や実質賃金にもプラスに寄与したと考えられ
る。 
2026年1～3月期もプラス
成長が続くと予測 。原油
価格上昇の影響は、 1～3
月期時点では限定的 
以上のとおり、10～12月期の2次速報では設備投資を中心に実質GDP成長率
が上方修正された。GDPの約半分を占める個人消費も1次速報から上振れてお
り、日本経済全体としては緩やかに拡大したことを確認する結果になった。 
先行きについてみると、2026年1～3月期の実質GDPは個人消費や設備投資
などの内需を中心に緩やかな拡大ペースを維持すると予想する。足元では米
国・ イスラエルのイラン攻撃により原油価格が急上昇したが、海外における
原油価格の変動が国内のエネルギー価格に反映されるまでには、ガソリンで
半月～1カ月程度、電気料金で4～9カ月程度のタイムラグがある。ガソリン
価格上昇の一部や、株価下落を受けた消費マインドの悪化が3月後半にかけ
て景気の下押し要因になる可能性があるものの、1～3月期全体では経済への
影響は限定的だろう。今後、原油価格の上昇が続いた場合、影響が本格的に
表れるのは4月以降になるとみられる。 
1～3月期の個人消費は、 実質賃金の改善が追い風になると見込む。 名目賃
金の上昇傾向が続く一方、 食料インフレの減速や政府の物価高対策を受けて
物価の伸びが抑制されるためだ。2025年末にいわゆるガソリン暫定税率が廃
止されたことに加え、2025年度補正予算に盛り込まれた電気 ・ガス代支援の
効果が2026年2～4月のインフレ率を押し下げる （支援実施期間は1～3月）要
因になる。 実際、2月の都区部コアCPI（生鮮食品を除く総合） は前年比＋1.8％
（1月：同＋2.0％）と、2024年10月以来の2％割れとなった。こうした実質
賃金の改善に加えて、 足元のいわゆる 「高市トレード」 による株高も資産効
果（消費性向の高まり）を通じて個人消費を支える要因になろう。 
設備投資は、企業の堅調な景況感・業績や、省力化・DX関連投資といった
構造的な投資需要を背景とする旺盛な設備投資意欲を受け、 拡大傾向が続く
だろう。なお、米国の関税政策については、2月20日の米連邦最高裁判所の
判決を受けて相互関税が廃止され、 新たな追加関税が発動された。 日本から
の輸出品に対する関税率は大きく変化しない見通しだが、 新たな追加関税が
時限的な措置であり、今後も米国関税政策に関する不確実性が残る点には注
意が必要だ。 
2026 年度 は前年比＋ 1％
前後の堅調な成長を予想
するが、油価高騰による
下振れリスクに注意 
2026年度の日本経済は、 こうした個人消費や設備投資の拡大に、 高市政権
の総合経済対策の効果も本格的に加わり、前年比＋1％前後の堅調な成長に
なると見込んでいる。ただし、 中東情勢と原油価格の動向次第で景気が下振
れるリスクには注意が必要だ。一時119ドル／バレル台に急伸した原油価格
は、トランプ大統領の「戦争はほぼ終了した」（日本時間3月10日未明）と
の発言を受けて 下落に転じているが、現時点ではまだイラン攻撃前の水準

===== Page 55 =====

6

（60ドル台）まで戻っていない。 
今後、ホルムズ海峡の航行制限やエネルギー関連施設攻撃の影響で原油供
給が不足する状態が続き、原油価格が高い水準を維持した場合、 日本の実質
GDPを押し下げる要因になる。仮に、原油価格が90ドル／バレル（2025年平
均対比＋39％）で推移すれば、日本の消費者物価が0.6％程度押し上げられ
る可能性がある。 実質賃金の改善が抑制されて消費が下振れすることなどか
ら、 実質GDPを0.2％程度押し下げる影響があるだろう。 家計単位では、 エネ
ルギー価格の上昇などを通じ、2人以上世帯の平均で年間2.2万円程度の負担
増が生じる計算になる。 
原油価格の高騰が続いてエネルギー価格が本格的に上昇すると、即効性が
ある支援として、政府がガソリンや電気・ ガスの価格高騰対策を追加で実施
する可能性がある。現時点では、 新たな補正予算の編成ではなく、2026年度
予算案に計上された予備費（1兆円）などを活用する方針とみられる。 
景気下振れリスク次第で
は、利上げが後ろ倒しさ
れる可能性も 
金融政策については、経済・物価や為替の動向などを踏まえ、日本銀行が
今後半年に1回程度のペースで計3回の追加利上げを行い、2027年度半ばにか
けて政策金利が1.5％の水準に到達すると現時点で見込んでいる。ただし、
原油価格の高騰を受けて、個人消費や設備投資が弱まるリスクが大きくなれ
ば、2025年前半の米国関税引き上げ時と同様に、 日銀が様子見姿勢を強め利
上げが後ろ倒しされることも考えられる。 
今後、 中東情勢の悪化が早期に終息し、 原油価格が再び落ち着くかどうか
が、2026年度の日本経済、 財政・金融政策を見通すうえで極めて重要である
と言えるだろう。 
 なお、弊社では2月26日に最新の内外経済見通し「2026・2027年 内外経済
見通し ─ 二極化する世界  深まる「分断」と重み増す政府の役割  ─」
（https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2026-0019/index.html ）
を発行している。 経済見通しの詳細についてはこちらもあわせてご覧いただ
きたい。

===== Page 56 =====

1

Mizuho RT EXPRESS

中国が試される内需拡大の本気度 
～全人代が開催、成長率目標を引き下げ～

調査部 主任エコノミスト 月岡直樹 
080-1069-6684 naoki.tsukioka@mizuho-rt.co.jp 
■ 成長率目標を「＋4.5～5.0％」に引き下げ。2020～35 年の所得倍増目標を明記 
中国で第14期全国人民代表大会第4回会議（国会に相当。以下、全人代）が2026年3月5日に開幕し、
国務院の李強総理が政府活動報告（以下、報告）を行った。李氏は報告において、2026年の実質GDP
成長率の目標を 「＋4.5～5.0％」のレンジに設定した上で、マクロ経済政策について前年の「より積極
的な」財政政策と「適度に緩和的な」金融政策を維持する方針を明らかにした。 
実質GDP成長率の政府目標は、2023～25年まで3年連続で「＋5.0％前後」としていたが、2026年は
「＋4.5～5.0％」に引き下げた（図表1）。中国経済の潜在成長率が低下傾向にあることを踏まえた現
実的な目標といえるが、「実際の活動においてより良い結果を努力して獲得する」と但し書きを入れ
ており、習近平指導部がなお「＋5.0％前後」の成長を志向している様子がうかがえる。報告は、今回
の全人代で可決される予定の第15次五カ年計画 （2026～30年）について触れ、「2035年に1人当たりGDP
を2020年対比で倍増させる」目標を明記し、そのために「（今後5年間は）GDP成長率を合理的なレン
ジに保持する」必要性を強調している。所得倍増の実現には、2026～35年の10年間に年平均で＋4.17％
の成長が必要となるが、中国経済が今後、さらに減速する可能性が高いことを考えると、2026年は目
標値を引き下げはしたものの、レンジの上限に近い成長率で着地させたい思惑があると考えられる。 
図表1 全人代で発表された経済目標と実績値

（注） 地方政府専項債の発行実績は、次年度分の前倒し発行を含む 
（出所） 政府活動報告、国家統計局、財政部、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
2024年
（実績） （目標）
2025年
（実績） （目標）
2026年
（目標）項目
＋5.0％前後＋5.0％＋5.0％前後＋5.0％＋4.5～5.0％実質GDP成長率
＋3.0％前後＋0.2％＋2.0％前後＋0.0％＋2.0％前後消費者物価指数（CPI）
1,200万人以上1,256万人1,200万人以上1,267万人1,200万人以上都市部新規就業者数
5.5％前後5.1％5.5％前後5.2％5.5％前後都市部調査失業率
4.06兆元
（3.0％）
4.06兆元
（3.0％）
5.66兆元
（4.0％）
5.66兆元
（4.0％）
5.89兆元
（4.0％）
財政赤字
（対GDP比）
1.0兆元1.0兆元1.8兆元1.8兆元1.6兆元特別国債（超長期含む）
3.9兆元4.02兆元4.4兆元4.6兆元4.4兆元地方政府専項債
2026 年 3 月 10 日

===== Page 57 =====

2

■ 「より積極的な」財政政策と「適度に緩和的な」金融政策を前年から維持 
マクロ経済政策のうち、「より積極的な」 財政政策では、前年と同水準の支出規模を確保した上で、
財政規律を強めて無駄遣いを減らし、消費の振興や人への投資、民生（生活）の保障などに資金を割
く方針である。一般公共財政予算の赤字を前年と同じ対GDP比▲4.0％（5.89兆元）としたほか、中央
政府性基金（中央特別会計）に算入される超長期特別国債の発行枠も前年と同じ1.3兆元とし、「両重
（国家重要戦略の実施と重点分野の安全能力の建設）」プロジェクトと「両新（大規模設備更新と消
費財買い替え）」政策を継続する。このうち、8,000億元を「両重」プロジェクトに充当し、2,500億元
を「両新」の消費財の買い替え補助金に、2,000億元を大規模設備更新の支援にそれぞれ充てるとして
いる。また、超長期特別国債とは別に3,000億元の特別国債を発行し、国有大手銀行に対して予防的な
資本注入を行って、 金融システミックリスクを未然に防止する。中国政府は2025年にも5,000億元の特
別国債を発行し、国有大手4行に資本注入を行っているが、これを継続する。 
インフラ投資の原資となる地方政府専項債 （特別債）の発行枠も、前年と同額の4.4兆元に据え置き、
重要プロジェクト建設のほか、地方の隠れ債務の借り換えや地方政府の未払い代金の返済などにも充
てるとした。「隠れ債務」とは「融資平台」と呼ばれる地方政府傘下企業が抱える債務を指し、全人
代常務委員会が2024年11月、2028年までの5年間で計10兆元の「隠れ債務」を公的な債務に置き換える
ことを承認している（月岡（2024）参照）。専項債はこのほか、不動産不況対策として国有地の買い
戻しや住宅在庫の買い取り、さらに、経営が悪化している中小銀行への公的資金の注入にも充てられ
ている。月岡（2025a）が指摘しているとおり、こうした景気浮揚の「真水」にならない支出は高止ま
りするとみられ、そのあおりでインフラ投資に回せる資金が制約を受けるため、景気の押し上げは限
定的になるであろう。 
一方、「適度に緩和的な」金融政策では、景気動向をにらみつつ機動的に金融緩和を実施し、十分
な流動性を維持する方針である。報告は「経済の安定成長と物価の合理的な上昇の促進を金融政策の
重要な勘案材料とし、機動的・効率的に預金準備率引き下げ・利下げなどの多様な政策ツールを運用
する」と明記した。中国経済がデフレ圧力に直面していることを強く意識したものといえ、2026年は
「物価の合理的な上昇」 を目指して金融緩和を活用するシーンが増えそうである。現在の政策金利 （7
日物リバースレポ金利）水準は1.4％と、ある程度の利下げ余地を有している。中国人民銀行はゼロ金
利政策のような非伝統的な金融政策にまで踏み込むことはないであろう。 
■ 「内需の拡大」が第一ながら政策の裏付け乏しく。追加の経済対策も選択肢に 
報告は、2026年の政府活動任務として、①強大な国内市場の建設（内需の拡大）、②新たな成長源
の育成、③科学技術の「自立自強」、④重点領域の改革（全国統一大市場の建設など）、⑤高水準の
対外開放、 ⑥農村の全面的な振興、⑦新型都市化と地域間の協調発展、⑧民生の保障と改善、⑨GX（グ
リーントランスフォーメーション）の推進、⑩重点分野のリスク防止・解消と安全能力の建設、の10
項目を掲げている。表現は異なるものの、前年に引き続き「内需の拡大」を第一の任務に位置付け、
「消費振興特別行動を実施」し、「有効投資の潜在力を発掘・解放」するとしている。 
上述のとおり、中国政府は超長期特別国債を活用し、「両重」プロジェクトと「両新」政策を継続

===== Page 58 =====

3

する構えである。加えて、1,000億元の特別資金枠を設置し、利子補給や融資保証などに活用するほか、
8,000億元の政策融資枠を新たに確保し、 これをテコに民間資本の投資を呼び込むことで、 内需の拡大
につなげるとしている。だが、既存政策の継続や、利子補給のような及び腰の支援策だけでは、内需
の底上げには力不足であろう。ましてや、 消費財の買い替え補助金は、過去2年間の実施ですでに需要
を先食いしてしまっており、2026年はその反動減すら見込まれる状況である。 
みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズでは、2026年の中国の実質GDP成長率を＋4.1％と見込んでいる。
長引く不動産市場の低迷が景気の足を引っ張る上に、住宅価格の下落による逆資産効果が消費を下押
しし続けるためである。インフラ投資は上述の理由で景気の押し上げ要因となることを期待できず、
製造業投資も過当競争で企業収益が弱っていることから力強さを欠くとみられる。輸出は前年に引き
続き堅調に推移するとみられるものの、中国の「デフレ輸出」により貿易摩擦が強まる中での外需頼
みには限界がある。「＋4.5～5.0％」の成長は決して容易に達成できるものではなく、景気の動向によ
っては追加の経済対策も選択肢となる。中国政府の内需拡大に向けた本気度が試される展開となろう。 
ただ、習近平政権は家計への現金直接給付などの大規模な財政出動には極めて後ろ向きである（月
岡（2023）参照）。となれば、即効性に欠けることは否めないが、消費主導型経済への構造転換を急
ぐほかはない。それは、年金の支給水準の引き上げといった社会保障の充実によって消費者の将来不
安を払拭することであり、居住地の戸籍を有していなければ十分な行政サービスを受けることができ
ない戸籍差別の解消によって移住先で安心して消費できる環境を整備し、人口の都市化を加速させる
ことである。 また、累進課税の強化や不動産税 （固定資産税） の導入によって所得再分配機能を高め、
消費性向の高い低中所得者層が使えるお金を増やすことであり、「自立自強」に必要な製造業だけで
なく、雇用創出力が高いサービス業を育成し、若年失業率を引き下げて雇用の安定化を図ることも不
可欠である。 
報告は、こうした構造改革について具体策あるいは方針そのものを示さなかった。だが、消費主導
型経済への構造転換こそが所得倍増目標実現のカギとなることは間違いないであろう。

===== Page 59 =====

© 2026 Mizuho Research & Technologies, Ltd.
2026年3月3日MHRT Global Watch 3月3日～中東情勢緊迫化と原油価格上昇リスク～投資の歪み①米企業で続くAI実装の模索。労働市場にAI投資の歪み

===== Page 60 =====

実績 予想米 製造業新規受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.7 ▲ 0.6米 米最高裁、IEEPAに基づく関税措置に違法判決米 週間小売売上高（2月16日） 前年比（％） 6.7 -米 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数（2月） 91.2 87.0米 S&P/ケース・シラー住宅価格（20都市）（12月） 前年比（％） 1.4 1.4米 一般教書演説米 新規失業保険申請件数（2月21日） 万人 21.2 21.5米 生産者物価指数（1月） 前月比（％） 0.5 0.3米 生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前月比（％） 0.8 0.3米 米・イスラエル、イランへの攻撃実施と発表欧 独ｉｆｏ企業景況感指数（2月） 88.6 88.4欧 ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（改定値）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.7 1.7中 春節期間中の国内旅行者数 前年比（％） 19.0 -日 天皇誕生日（日本休場）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　日 政府、日銀審議委員人事案を衆参両院に提示日 鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） 2.2 5.3日 百貨店・スーパー販売額（1月） 前年比（％） 3.0 -日 東京都区部消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）　（2月） 前年比（％） 1.8 1.7

経済指標
米・イスラエルは共同でイランへの攻撃を開始。イランも報復攻撃を行うなど中東情勢は緊迫化。ホルムズ海峡は実質閉鎖。石油施設への攻撃激化により油価高騰が⾧期化するリスク
違法判決を受けてトランプ政権は新たな関税を導入。各国一律の税率が適用されるため、高い税率を課されていた国と、通商交渉で低めの税率が適用されていた国で影響に濃淡
注目点②米最高裁の違法判決で揺れる通商合意
足許の経済・金融状況と注目ポイント
2
（注）予想はLSEG、ブルームバーグが取りまとめた予想コンセンサス（出所）LSEG、ブルームバーグより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2026. 3. 3
消費者信頼感は前月から上昇。労働市場に対する認識の改善が背景。トランプ大統領の一般教書演説はこれまでの政策の成果をアピール。とりわけ、関税に対する揺るぎない執着を印象付ける内容米国足許の経済・金融状況（総合評価）ドイツの製造業PMIは2022年6月以来の50超。財政支出の効果が顕現しつつあることを確認。2月のユーロ圏PMIの改善をけん引。ただ建設業の人手不足感は強く、財政支出の効果を削ぐ要因に欧州春節期間中の国内旅行は、連休が過去最⾧となったことも相まって活況。旅行者数、旅行支出とも2桁増の高い伸び。アウトバウンドに加え、インバウンドも堅調。各国に対する短期ビザ免除措置が奏功中国/APAC生産は3カ月ぶりにプラス転化。自動車が増産に寄与。小売業販売額も２カ月ぶりに前年比プラス。値上げに加え、自動車や家電などの販売好調も寄与。物価高対策で都区部コアCPIは2％割れ日本

注目点①中東情勢緊迫化と原油価格上昇リスク
先週（2/23～3/3）発表の主な経済指標
②
①

===== Page 61 =====

今週発表される経済指標
（注）予想はLSEGが取りまとめた予想コンセンサス。矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成3
日付 実績 予想3/3 (火) 日本 完全失業率（1月） ％ 2.7 2.6 2.63/3 (火) 日本有効求人倍率（1月） 倍 1.18 1.19 1.2 ↑3/3 (火) 日本法人企業統計・設備投資（全産業）（Q4） 前年比（％） 6.5 - 2.93/3 (火)米国 週間小売売上高（2月28日） 前年比（％） - - 6.73/3 (火)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（2月） 前年比（％） - 1.7 1.73/3 (火)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（2月） 前年比（％） - 2.2 2.23/4 (水) 日本 消費者態度指数（2月） - - 37.93/4 (水)米国 ＩＳＭ非製造業指数（2月） - 53.5 53.83/4 (水)米国ADP民間雇用者数（2月） 前月差（万人） - 5.0 2.23/4 (水)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏総合ＰＭＩ（確報値）（2月） - 51.9 51.93/4 (水)中国 製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） - 49.1 49.33/4 (水)中国非製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） - - 49.43/4 (水)中国財新製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） - 50.2 50.33/4 (水)中国財新サービス業ＰＭＩ（2月） - - 52.33/5 (木) 米国 労働生産性（速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）- 1.9 4.93/5 (木)米国単位労働コスト（速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）- 2.0 ▲ 1.93/5 (木)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏小売売上高（1月） 前月比（％） - 0.3 ▲ 0.53/5 (木)マレーシア マレーシア金融政策決定会合（6日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　3/6 (金) 米国 失業率 （2月） ％ - 4.3 4.33/6 (金)米国非農業部門雇用者数（2月） 前月差（万人） - 6.0 133/6 (金)米国時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（2月） 前年比（％） - 3.7 3.73/6 (金)米国 時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（2月）前月比（％） - 0.3 0.43/6 (金)米国小売売上高（1月） 前月比（％） - ▲ 0.3 0.03/6 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏ＧＤＰ（改定値）（Q4） 前期比（％） - 0.3 0.33/9 (月) 日本 経常収支（1月） 億円 - - 7,2883/9 (月) 日本景気ウォッチャー調査（2月） 現状判断ＤＩ - - 47.63/9 (月)中国 消費者物価指数（2月） 前年比（％） - - 0.2

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 62 =====

0.0 0.0 0.1
▲ 0.2▲ 0.3
▲ 0.5
▲ 0.2▲ 0.3▲ 0.5▲ 0.6▲ 0.4▲ 0.20.00.2
シナリオ① シナリオ② シナリオ③
米国日本欧州
（％）
0.5 0.7 1.20.6 0.8
1.5
0.7 1.0
1.9
0.00.51.01.52.0
シナリオ① シナリオ② シナリオ③
米国日本欧州
（％）
中東：イランへの軍事作戦を受けて原油価格に上昇圧力。日欧経済に一定の悪影響米軍とイスラエル軍は共同でイランへの攻撃を開始（2/28）。イランが周辺国へ報復攻撃を行うなど中東情勢は緊迫化― トランプ大統領は、作戦終了まで「4週間程度」を要するとの見方を表明要衝のホルムズ海峡は事実上閉鎖、足元では原油（WTI）価格が70ドル/バレル前後で推移―CSISは、ホルムズ海峡の閉鎖に伴い油価が90ドル/バレルまで上昇する可能性を指摘。エネルギーの輸入依存度が高い日本や欧州では、インフレ率が押し上げられ、消費には0.2％Pt程度の下押し圧力がかかる計算に

原油価格上昇が各国のインフレ率や個人消費に与える影響
4
米戦略国際問題研究所（CSIS）による原油価格の想定
（注）原油価格の括弧内の変化率は、2025年平均（64.8ドル/バレル）からの上昇率を計算（出所）CSISより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
原油価格シナリオ
90ドル超（＋約39％）
ホルムズ海峡を通過する湾岸諸国の輸出フローを標的。日本を含む諸外国の原油調達に影響数百万バレル/日の供給が数週間にわたり混乱
シナリオ①イランがアラブ湾岸の石油輸送を妨害
100ドル超（＋約54％）
ハールク島のイラン製油所を攻撃。中国は代替供給の確保に動き、世界の油価に影響インフラの損傷・破壊により市場から原油が長期間失われる可能性
シナリオ②米国またはイスラエルがイラン石油施設を直接攻撃
130ドル超（＋約101％）
生産油田、集積・処理拠点、輸出ターミナルを攻撃。日本を含む諸外国の原油調達に影響②と同様に、インフラの損傷・破壊により市場から原油が長期間失われる可能性
シナリオ③イランがアラブ湾岸石油施設を直接攻撃

原油価格上昇によるインフレ率への影響
交易条件の変化を通じた個人消費への影響
エネルギーの輸入依存度が高い日本や欧州の個人消費を下押し
原油価格上昇は各国のインフレ率を押し上げ
（注）上段は、原油価格（前年比）・失業率（前年差）・インフレ率（前年比）の3変数VARモデルにより推計（月次データ） 。下段は、交易条件（前年比）、失業率（前年差）、実質個人消費（前年比）の3変数VARモデル（四半期データ）を推計。原油価格と交易条件の関係を踏まえ、油価変動による個人消費への影響を試算。原油価格と交易条件の変化から1年間の平均的な影響（出所）米国商務省、米国労働省、Eurostat、日本銀行、総務省、EIA より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
注目点① 中東情勢緊迫化と原油価格上昇リスク

===== Page 63 =====

15.4
36.8
26.3
14.9
12.8
11.7
8.3
13.2
29.712.8
15.4
13.4
12.5
10.30 10 20 30 40
世界
中国
ブラジル
日本
韓国
欧州連合
イギリス
従来最新
（％）
▲ 0.10.00.10.20.30.40.50.6
▲1000100200300400500600
中国 ブラジル
日本 韓国 欧州連合
イギリス
対米輸出増減（左軸）各国GDP対比（右軸）
（億ドル） （％）
米国：相互関税に違法判決。変わる米国と各国間の「損得勘定」IEEPAに基づく相互関税は違法との最高裁判決を受けて、トランプ政権は通商法122条による追加関税を全世界に適用― 米国の平均関税率は15.4％から13.2％に低下（通商法122条に基づく関税率は15％と想定）。米国内の輸入企業にとっては、290億ドル（GDP比0.1％）程度の減税となる計算高税率を課されていた中国やブラジルの税率は大きく低下。一方で通商合意を結んだ英国や欧州などでは税率が上昇― 中国やブラジルでは関税率の低下に伴い対米輸出の増加が見込まれる状況。欧州は「基本条件が変わった」として通商合意の見直しを求める可能性を示唆

5
（注）「従来」はIEEPAに違法判決が下される前の関税率。「最新」はIEEPAによる相互関税が廃止され、通商法122条による追加関税（15%）が適用された後の関税率（出所）Global trade alertより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
新旧関税率（国別） 各国の対米輸出額への影響
（注） 第二次トランプ政権で導入された関税率と対米輸出額の関係性から試算（出所）Global trade alert、米国商務省、IMFより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
中国・ブラジルでは関税率低下で対米輸出が増加する計算
注目点② 米最高裁の違法判決で揺れる通商合意
日本・欧州・英国などは小幅ながら関税率が若干上昇
高関税を課されていた中国・ブラジルは関税率が低下

===== Page 64 =====

家具・家電その他耐久財
飲食料品
▲202468Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q424 25
（前年比、％）
（期）（年）
家具・家電その他耐久財
飲食料品
▲4▲2024Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q424 25
（前年比、％）
（期）（年）
全体サービス
財
0%1%2%3%4%5%1 2 3 4 1 2 3 424 25
（前年比）
（年）（期）
米国：関税による価格上昇で財消費は伸び悩み。政府閉鎖の影響も相まって成長率は急低下2025年10～12月期の実質GDP成長率は前期比年率＋1.4％と前期（同＋4.4％）から大きく減速―43日間続いた政府閉鎖の影響により政府消費が大幅減となったことが主因（寄与度▲0.9％Pt）。また、個人消費の伸び鈍化も成長率を下押し― サービス消費は株高による資産効果を背景に底堅く推移した一方、財消費は関税による物価上昇もあり大きく減速― 通商法122条への適用変更によって小幅ながらも税率が低下するほか、OBBBAによる税還付などもあることから、個人消費の減速は一時的との見立て

6（出所）米商務省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
財・サービス別個人消費主要品目の物価と個人消費
（出所）米商務省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
サービス消費は底堅い一方、財消費は大きく減速
消費
物価
物価が上昇している品目で消費が減速
注目点② 米最高裁の違法判決で揺れる通商合意

===== Page 65 =====

建設業人手不足感（右）
国内資本財受注
建設許可金額
0510152025303540
708090100110120130140150
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
（2021年=100）
（年）
（％）
欧州：財政拡張を受けて景況感は改善も、人手不足が景気拡大の制約に年明け以降景況感の改善が顕著に。財政政策の影響が出始めたとの評価― ドイツの製造業PMIは2022年6月以来の50超となり、2月のユーロ圏PMI改善をけん引ドイツでは設備投資の先行指標が急増。ただし、人手不足が生産活動の制約要因に― ドイツの建設許可金額や国内資本財受注が昨年末に急増。先行きは設備投資がGDPにプラス寄与の見込み― ただし、建設業の人手不足感は2022年以降高水準。建設工事の進捗が遅れる要因に―1・2月のユーロ圏PMIが示唆する1～3月期のGDP成長率は前期比0.3％と、前四半期と同様に潜在成長率並みを予測
7
（注）50が景気判断の境目（出所）S&P Globalより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

ユーロ圏・ドイツPMIドイツ：建設許可・資本財受注、建設業の人手不足感
（注） 建設許可、資本財受注は3カ月後方移動平均。建設業人手不足感は、人手不足が建設活動の制約要因になっていると回答した企業の割合（出所）Eurostat、欧州委員会、Bundesbank、独連邦統計局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ユーロ圏
ドイツ
ドイツ製造業
404244464850525456
24/02 24/08 25/02 25/08 26/02
（DI）
（年/月）
ドイツ製造業中心に改善
投資の先行指標が足元で大幅増

===== Page 66 =====

旅行者数旅行支出
506070809010011012013014015016019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2019年＝100）
（年）
出入国者数
コロナ禍前の水準
05010015020025019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（万人/1日あたり）
（年）
中国：春節中の国内旅行は総じて活況。伝統イベントが人気。中国のインバウンドにも賑わい春節（旧正月）期間中の国内旅行は、法定休日が過去最長の9連休となったことも手伝い、総じて活況だった― 旅行者数は前年比＋19.0％、旅行支出は同＋18.7％と高い伸び。ただ、1人当たり消費額は同▲0.2％と伸びず― 無形文化遺産などの伝統イベントが人気博す。混雑を避け、地方に住む家族を都市に呼ぶ「逆帰省」もトレンドに春節期間中の出入国者数（1日当たり、延べ人数）は前年比＋10.1％。アウトバウンド、インバウンドともに賑わう― 中国人の人気旅行先は、バンコク、クアラルンプール、シンガポール、ソウルなど。日本は渡航自粛で圏外に― 外国人の出入国者数は同＋21.8％。各国に対する短期ビザ免除措置が奏功し、インバウンドが拡大傾向

8（出所） 中国文化観光部、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
春節休暇期間中の旅行者数・旅行支出春節休暇期間中の出入国者数
（注） 延べ人数。2020年、2021年は非公表（出所） 国家移民管理局、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
9連休だったこともあり、高い伸びを記録 ビザ免除措置が奏功し、外国人出入国者が大幅増

===== Page 67 =====

価格要因
数量
要因
輸出額
▲50
0
50
100
150
25 26
(前年比、％)
(年)
アジア：AI需要や春節要因を受け輸出は堅調。メモリ価格の高騰が韓国の輸出を押し上げASEAN＋NIEsの輸出は2026年1月も堅調。AI関連需要に加え、春節の時期ずれも一時的に中国向け輸出を押し上げ―AI関連需要を受けて台湾はサーバー輸出、マレーシアは電気機械・電子部品の輸出が堅調― ベトナムからの携帯電話輸出などを背景に持ち直しが続く中国向けの輸出は、春節の時期ずれも伸び拡大要因に韓国は、メモリ半導体（中国・香港・台湾）、メモリモジュールを中心とするサーバー・PC向け部品（米国）が伸びを拡大― メモリ半導体は、前年比＋154％と高い伸び。AIサーバー需要の高まりを背景とした需給ひっ迫を受け、メモリ半導体の市況上昇が加速。先行き、PCやスマホなど最終製品へ価格が転嫁される可能性
9
（注）インドネシア・フィリピンは2026年1月計数が未公表のため、前月の前年比を用いた推計値（出所）各国・地域統計、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

ASEAN＋NIEs：国・地域別輸出韓国：総額輸出、メモリ半導体輸出
（注）右図については、HS854232について、輸出額の前年比を、輸出価格指数、輸出数量の前年比で分解して算出。輸出価格指数はDRAMとFlashメモリの輸出価格指数の単純平均を使用。なお、交差項があるため、合計は一致しない（出所）韓国税関、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
【総額輸出】【メモリ半導体】
足元で韓国も好調 価格要因が輸出額を押し上げ

===== Page 68 =====

輸出向け出荷輸出向け出荷（輸送機械工業）
輸出数量（対世界）
輸出数量（対米国）
95100105110115120125130
24/1 24/4 24/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
（2020年=100）
（年/月）
鉱工業
生産用機械工業
輸送機械工業
909510010511011512012513013524/1 24/4 24/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
（2020年=100）
（年/月）
日本：生産は3カ月ぶりにプラス転化。出荷が国内・海外ともに堅調だった自動車が増産に寄与
10
1月は前月比＋2.2％と3カ月ぶり増産。自動車や化学関連などが寄与。一方、半導体製造装置などが減産― 輸送機械工業の出荷は同＋7.5％と大幅増。欧米向け輸出が増加したほか、国内向けも底堅く、自動車増産の要因に2月の生産予測指数（補正値）は同▲1.9％と減産見込みだが、均してみれば生産は緩やかな回復基調を維持する見通し― 日本の実質賃金の先行きプラス転化や、米国経済の底堅さなど、内・外需の回復継続が背景― なお、1月の対中レアアース輸入数量は前年比▲5.7％と、日中関係の緊張状態が続くなかでも大幅減を回避。国内在庫が厚めに保有されているとみられ、今後もレアアース輸入が小幅減にとどまれば、生産への下押し圧力は限定的に

（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業生産」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
鉱工業計および主要業種の生産指数
生産は極めて緩やかながら回復基調
輸出数量と輸出向け出荷
（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業生産」、内閣府「輸出・輸入数量指数」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
1月は自動車の増産が全体を押し上げ輸出数量が回復するもと、輸出向け出荷も増加

===== Page 69 =====

一般サービス
高校授業料公共サービス
コメ食品
エネルギー
その他財コアCPI
コアCPI（制度要因除く）
▲2▲101234523 24 25 26
（前年比、%）
（年）
コアCPI
一般サービス物価
1.01.52.02.53.03.54.025/3 25/9 26/3 26/9
（前年比、％）
（年/月）
日本：物価高対策でコアCPIは2％割れ。制度要因が縮小する26年後半は2％前後で推移
11
2月の都区部コアCPIは前年比＋1.8％と24年10月以来の2％割れ。物価高対策が主因― 昨年を上回る規模で実施している電気・ガス代補助の影響で、エネルギーが同▲9.2％（前月：同▲4.2％）と下落幅拡大― 食料（生鮮除く）は同＋5.5％（前月：同＋5.6％）とやや鈍化。コメ前年比は10%台まで減速制度要因の影響が縮小する26年後半以降、全国コアCPIは前年比＋2％前後で推移する見通し― 一般サービス物価は賃上げ率に沿って同＋2％前後で推移。食品物価も同＋3％台まで徐々に低下する見通し― 今後、公共サービス（鉄道運賃、固定電話、診療報酬等）の値上げはあるが、2％程度のインフレ傾向は変わらず

（注） 食品は生鮮、コメ及び外食除く食料。制度要因は、電気・ガス代補助、ガソリン補助・暫定税率廃止、高校授業料無償化、第一子保育料無償化（出所） 総務省「消費者物価指数」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
都区部コアCPI全国コアCPIの先行き
（注）四半期ベース。二重線部分は見通し部分（出所） 総務省「消費者物価指数」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
見通し
コアCPIは前年比＋2％割れ制度要因除くベースも同＋2.4%まで減速
コアCPIは前年比＋2％前後で推移する見込み

===== Page 70 =====

政策委員 政策スタンス合成スコア田村 直樹 タカ派90高田 創 タカ派80氷見野 良三 中立～ややタカ派40内田 真一 中立～ややタカ派25小枝 淳子 中立～ややタカ派20中川 順子 中立15増 一行 中立10植田 和男 中立5野口 旭 ややハト派-20
日本：日銀審議委員の後任案はハト派に傾斜。金融政策運営で「高市カラー」が強まる可能性も
12
政府は日銀審議委員の後任人事案を提示― 野口委員（任期：～3月末）、中川委員（同：～6月末）の後任案。候補2名の過去の発言等を踏まえれば、今後日銀ボードメンバーのバランスはハト派色がやや強まる可能性に留意― もっとも今後、高市政権が利上げに消極的との見方が強まる場合や、両候補からハト派色の強い発言が目立つ場合は円安・金利上昇要因になることから、両候補とも極端な金融緩和志向は打ち出しにくいとの見立て― 国会承認に向け、参院過半数の賛成を得られるかが次の焦点。当面は候補者の所信聴取や質疑に注目
（出所） 各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

審議委員候補のプロフィールと過去発言浅田統一郎氏（野口旭委員の後任候補）経済学者・中央大学名誉教授。専門はマクロ経済学、国際金融理論、経済動学ポストケインズ派の流れを汲み、積極財政と金融緩和のポリシーミックスを重視プロフィール
「日銀は物価目標のみならず雇用の最大化、失業率にもコミットすべきで、政府と協議して目標を定めるのが望ましい」（2015年12月）「不況期こそ積極財政と日銀の国債買い支えで経済を成長軌道に乗せよ」（2021年3月）過去の発言
佐藤綾野氏（中川順子委員の後任候補）経済学者・青山学院大学教授。専門は国際金融、計量経済学「責任ある積極財政を推進する議員連盟」で講師歴プロフィール
「円安は長期的には日本経済にメリットになる」（2023年2月）「広範で持続的な賃上げが確認されるまで金融政策は現状維持」（2023年2月）過去の発言（注） 政策スタンスおよび指標は、直近1年間の講演・挨拶をもとに、生成AIで相対的な位置づけを判定したもの（出所） 日本銀行より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

現在の政策委員の政策スタンス
6月末に任期満了
3月末に任期満了

===== Page 71 =====

市場の評価財源として使用した場合の副作用制度としての可否（難易度）赤字国債に依存せず好評価〇国債償還財源の減少防衛費財源等への悪影響△1/2未満は国債償還財源以外にも使用可能〇税収上振れ（自然増収） 非効率な措置の是正となれば好評価〇危機管理・成長投資関連など見直し困難な分野あり△現行措置の要否等に関する個別検証が必要△補助金、租税特別措置の見直し 特例措置で透明性に課題△産業政策への活用財源の減少▲保有株配当等の一般会計への繰入必要▲産業投資（財投特会）の活用 売り切りで時限財源△使用中の国有財産売却による行政効率低下の懸念▲短期で売却・現金化は困難▲政府資産の売却
外債売却は市場（金利、為替相場）に影響△円買い介入や政府系金融機関へ貸付（注）の原資減少一般会計繰入額の減少を通じた防衛費財源等への悪影響△一般会計繰入の上振れ分を活用可能〇外為特会の運用益（剰余金）活用
ETF政府移管は中銀独立性低下の懸念あり△ETF配当が減少すると日銀の財務健全性に悪影響△配当は一部繰入可能、ETF政府移管は困難△日銀納付金（含むETF配当） 財政の信認低下と将来不安の拡大×年金積立金不足は将来の国庫負担金増（増税）要因×目的外利用（制度逸脱）×年金積立金の活用

日本：国民会議による議論がスタート。消費税減税の財源確保が「責任ある」積極財政の試金石
13（注）日米戦略投資向けのJBIC貸付財源となる可能性（出所）みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
消費税減税の主な財源候補と難易度・市場の評価（〇：容易、△難易度中、▲難易度高、×事実上困難）
高市総理は社会保障国民会議の初会合を開催― 給付付き税額控除や食料品の消費税率ゼロを含めた社会保障と税の一体改革についての議論がスタート― 消費税減税の主要財源として想定されるものは、①税収上振れ、②補助金・租特見直し、③外為特会の運用益（剰余金）、④ETF配当を含めた日銀納付金― 年金積立金の運用（GPIF担当）は市場運用開始後、4％超の運用利回りを実現、制度上も年金資産の流用は困難

===== Page 72 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（1）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成14
日付 実績2/3 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（1月26日） 前年比（％） 6.7 7.12/4 (水) 米国 ＩＳＭ非製造業指数（1月） 53.8 53.8 ↓2/4 (水)米国ADP民間雇用者数（1月） 前月差（万人） 2.2 3.7 ↓2/4 (水)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏総合ＰＭＩ（確報値）（1月） 51.3 51.52/4 (水)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.7 2.0 ↑2/4 (水)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.2 2.32/4 (水)欧州 ＥＣＢ政策理事会（4・5日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/4 (水)中国 財新サービス業ＰＭＩ（1月） 52.3 52.02/5 (木) 米国 新規失業保険申請件数（1月26日） 万人 23.1 20.92/5 (木)米国非農業部門求人件数（JOLTS）（12月） 前月差（万件） 654.2 692.8 ↓2/5 (木)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏小売売上高（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.5 0.1 ↓2/5 (木)英国 英中銀金融政策委員会（5日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/6 (金) 日本 実質消費支出（二人以上の全世帯）（12月） 前年比（％） ▲ 2.6 2.92/6 (金)米国 ミシガン大消費者信頼感指数（速報値）（2月） 57.3 56.42/6 (金)インド インド金融政策決定会合（4-6日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/9 (月) 日本 経常収支（12月） 億円 7,288.0 36,741.02/9 (月) 日本景気ウォッチャー調査（1月） 現状判断ＤＩ 47.6 47.7 ↓

経済指標等 前回
5.25%に据え置き

===== Page 73 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（2）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成15
日付 実績2/10 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（2月2日） 前年比（％） 6.5 6.72/10 (火)米国小売売上高（12月） 前月比（％） 0.0 0.62/10 (火)米国雇用コスト指数（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.7 0.82/11 (水) 米国 失業率 （1月） ％ 4.3 4.42/11 (水)米国非農業部門雇用者数（1月） 前月差（万人） 13.0 4.82/11 (水)米国時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（1月） 前年比（％） 3.7 3.72/11 (水)米国 時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（1月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.12/11 (水)米国財政収支（1月） 10億ドル ▲ 95 ▲ 1452/11 (水)中国 消費者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 0.2 0.82/12 (木) 日本 国内企業物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.3 2.42/12 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月2日） 万人 22.9 23.22/12 (木)米国中古住宅販売戸数（1月） 万戸（年率） 391.0 427.02/13 (金) 米国 消費者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.4 2.72/13 (金)米国消費者物価指数（前月比）（1月） 前月比（％） 0.2 0.32/13 (金)米国消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.5 2.62/13 (金)米国 消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月）前月比（％） 0.3 0.22/13 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏ＧＤＰ（2次速報値）（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.3 0.32/16 (月) 日本 ＧＤＰ（1次速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）0.2 ▲ 2.32/16 (月) 日本設備稼働率（12月） 前月比（％） 1.3 ▲ 5.32/16 (月)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏鉱工業生産（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 0.3

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 74 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（3）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成16
日付 実績2/17 (火) 米国 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数（2月） 7.1 7.72/18 (水) 日本 貿易収支（貿易統計）（1月） 億円 ▲ 11,527 1,135 ↑2/18 (水) 日本輸出（1月） 前年比（％） 16.8 5.12/18 (水) 日本輸入（1月） 前年比（％） ▲ 2.5 5.2 ↓2/18 (水)米国 週間小売売上高（2月9日） 前年比（％） 7.2 6.52/18 (水)米国鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） 0.7 0.22/18 (水)米国設備稼働率　（1月） ％ 76.2 75.72/18 (水)米国耐久財受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 5.4 ↑2/18 (水)米国耐久財受注（除く輸送機器）（12月） 前月比（％） 0.9 0.5 ↑2/18 (水)米国ネット対米長期証券投資（12月） 10億ドル 28.0 206.6 ↓2/18 (水)米国住宅着工件数（11月） 万戸（年率） 132.2 127.22/18 (水)米国住宅着工許可件数（11月） 万戸（年率） 138.8 141.12/18 (水)インドネシア インドネシア金融政策決定会合（18･19日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/19 (木) 日本 機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（12月） 前年比（％） 16.8 ▲ 6.42/19 (木) 日本 機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（12月）前月比（％） 19.1 ▲ 11.02/19 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月9日） 万人 20.6 22.92/19 (木)米国貿易収支（12月） 10億ドル ▲ 70.3 ▲ 53.02/19 (木)米国中古住宅販売仮契約指数（1月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.8 ▲ 7.4 ↑2/19 (木)米国フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数（2月） 16.3 12.62/19 (木)米国景気先行指数（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.32/19 (木)フィリピン フィリピン金融政策決定会合

4.75%に据え置き
経済指標等 前回
0.25%引き下げて4.25%

===== Page 75 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（4）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成17
日付 実績2/20 (金) 日本 全国消費者物価（総合）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.5 2.12/20 (金) 日本全国消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.0 2.42/20 (金)米国 ミシガン大消費者信頼感指数（確報値）（2月） 56.6 57.32/20 (金)米国個人所得（12月） 前月比（％） 0.3 0.42/20 (金)米国消費支出（12月） 前月比（％） 0.4 0.42/20 (金)米国実質消費支出（12月） 前月比（％） 0.1 0.22/20 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（12月） 前年比（％） 2.9 2.82/20 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（12月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.22/20 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月） 前年比（％） 3.0 2.82/20 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.22/20 (金)米国新築住宅販売戸数（11月） 万戸（年率） 75.8 65.62/20 (金)米国ＧＤＰ（速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）1.4 4.42/20 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏総合ＰＭＩ（速報値）（2月） 51.9 51.32/23 (月) 米国 製造業新規受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.7 2.72/23 (月)ドイツ 独ｉｆｏ企業景況感指数（2月） 88.6 87.6

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 76 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（5）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成18
日付 実績2/24 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（2月16日） 前年比（％） 6.7 7.22/24 (火)米国カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数（2月） 91.2 89.0 ↑2/24 (火)米国S&P/ケース・シラー住宅価格（20都市）（12月） 前年比（％） 1.4 1.42/25 (水) ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（改定値）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.7 1.72/25 (水)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（改定値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.2 2.22/25 (水)タイ タイ金融政策決定会合2/26 (木) 米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月16日） 万人 21.2 20.82/26 (木)韓国 韓国金融政策決定会合2/27 (金) 日本 鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） 2.2 ▲ 0.12/27 (金) 日本百貨店・スーパー販売額（1月） 前年比（％） 3.0 1.0 ↓2/27 (金) 日本新設住宅着工戸数（1月） 前年比（％） ▲ 0.4 ▲ 1.32/27 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（総合）（2月） 前年比（％） 1.6 1.52/27 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）　（2月） 前年比（％） 1.8 2.02/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.9 3.02/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（1月）前月比（％） 0.5 0.42/27 (金)米国生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前年比（％） 3.6 3.32/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月）前月比（％） 0.8 0.62/27 (金)米国シカゴ地区購買部協会景気指数（ＰＭＩ）（2月） 57.7 54.03/2 (月) 米国 ＩＳＭ製造業指数（2月） 52.4 52.6

0.25ポイント引き下げて1.00％
2.5%に据え置き
経済指標等 前回

===== Page 77 =====

巻末資料 日本 四半期スケジュール（3～6月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
3月 4月 5月 6月2 新車販売台数(2月) 1 日銀短観(3月調査) 1 消費者物価(4月都区部) 1 法人企業統計調査(1～3月期)3 労働力調査(1月) 1 新車販売台数(3月) 1 新車販売台数(4月) 1 新車販売台数(5月)3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 7 家計調査(2月) 7 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨 5 毎月勤労統計(4月速報)3 一般職業紹介(1月) 7 景気動向指数(2月) 8 毎月勤労統計(3月速報) 5 景気動向指数(4月)3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 8 国際収支(2月速報) 12 景気動向指数(3月) 5 家計調査(4月)4 消費動向調査(2月) 8 景気ウォッチャー調査(3月) 12 家計調査(3月) 8 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期2次速報)9 景気動向指数(1月) 8 毎月勤労統計(2月速報) 13 国際収支(3月速報) 8 景気ウォッチャー調査(5月)9 国際収支(1月速報) 9 消費動向調査(3月) 13 景気ウォッチャー調査(4月) 8 国際収支(4月速報)9 景気ウォッチャー調査(2月) 10 企業物価指数(3月) 14 マネーストック(4月速報) 9 マネーストック(5月速報)9 毎月勤労統計(1月速報) 13 マネーストック(3月速報) 15 企業物価指数(4月) 10 企業物価指数(5月)10 家計調査(1月) 14 設備稼働率(2月) 19 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期1次速報) 11 法人企業景気予測調査(4～6月期)10 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期2次速報) 15 機械受注統計(2月) 19 設備稼働率(3月) 12 設備稼働率(4月)10 マネーストック(2月速報) 22 貿易統計(3月) 21 貿易統計(4月) 15 日銀金融政策決定会合(15・16日)11 企業物価指数(2月) 24 消費者物価(3月全国) 22 消費者物価(4月全国) 16 日銀総裁定例記者会見12 法人企業景気予測調査(1～3月期) 27 日銀金融政策決定会合(27・28日) 29 消費者物価(5月都区部) 17 貿易統計(5月)17 第3次産業活動指数(1月) 28 日銀｢経済･物価情勢の展望」(基本的見解) 29 労働力調査(4月) 19 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨18 貿易統計(2月) 28 日銀総裁定例記者会見 29 一般職業紹介(4月) 19 消費者物価(5月全国)18 資金循環統計(10～12月期速報) 28 労働力調査(3月) 29 消費動向調査(5月) 25 資金循環統計(1～3月期速報)18 日銀金融政策決定会合(18・19日) 28 一般職業紹介(3月) 29 鉱工業生産(4月速報) 26 消費者物価(6月都区部)19 設備稼働率(1月) 30 住宅着工統計(3月) 29 商業動態統計(4月速報) 29 商業動態統計(5月速報)19 日銀総裁定例記者会見 30 消費動向調査(4月) 30 労働力調査(5月)19 機械受注統計(1月) 30 鉱工業生産(3月速報) 30 一般職業紹介(5月)24 消費者物価(2月全国) 30 商業動態統計(3月速報) 30 鉱工業生産(5月速報)25 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨31 労働力調査(2月)31 消費者物価(3月都区部)31 商業動態統計(2月速報)31 鉱工業生産(2月速報)31 住宅着工統計(2月)31 一般職業紹介(2月)

日 本

===== Page 78 =====

巻末資料 米国・欧州 四半期スケジュール（3～6月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
3月 4月 5月 6月2 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(2月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(3月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(4月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(5月)4 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(2月) 2 貿易収支(2月) 5 貿易収支(3月) 3 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(5月)4 ベージュブック(地区連銀経済報告) 3 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(3月) 5 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(4月) 3 ベージュブック(地区連銀経済報告)5 労働生産性(10～12月期改定) 3 雇用統計(3月) 5 貿易収支(3月) 4 労働生産性(1～3月期改定)6 雇用統計(2月) 7 FOMC議事録(3/17・18分) 7 労働生産性(1～3月期暫定) 5 雇用統計(5月)6 小売売上高(1月) 7 米3年国債入札 8 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月速報) 9 中古住宅販売件数(5月)10 中古住宅販売件数(2月) 8 米10年国債入札 8 雇用統計(4月) 9 貿易収支(4月)10 米3年国債入札 9 個人所得・消費支出(2月) 11 中古住宅販売件数(4月) 9 米3年国債入札11 ＣＰＩ(2月) 9 米30年国債入札 11 米3年国債入札 9 貿易収支(4月)11 米10年国債入札 10 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月速報) 12 ＣＰＩ(4月) 10 ＣＰＩ(5月)12 貿易収支(1月) 10 ＣＰＩ(3月) 12 米10年国債入札 10 米10年国債入札12 ＰＰＩ(2月) 13 中古住宅販売件数(3月) 13 ＰＰＩ(4月) 11 ＰＰＩ(5月)12 米30年国債入札 14 ＰＰＩ(3月) 13 米30年国債入札 11 米30年国債入札12 住宅着工・許可件数(1月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(5月) 12 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(6月速報)13 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月速報) 15 ネット対米証券投資(2月) 15 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(4月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(6月)13 耐久財受注(1月) 15 ベージュブック(地区連銀経済報告) 18 ネット対米証券投資(3月) 15 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(5月)13 個人所得・消費支出(1月) 16 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 19 FOMC議事録(4/28・29分) 16 FOMC(16・17日)13 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期暫定) 16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(3月) 19 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(4月) 16 米20年国債入札16 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 21 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(3月) 20 米20年国債入札 17 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(5月)16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(2月) 22 米20年国債入札 21 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(5月) 18 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(6月)17 FOMC(17・18日) 24 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月確報) 22 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月確報) 18ネット対米証券投資(4月)17 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(2月) 27 米5年国債入札 25 経常収支(10～12月期) 24 経常収支(1～3月期)17 米20年国債入札 27 米2年国債入札 26 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(3月) 24 米5年国債入札18 ネット対米証券投資(1月) 28 FOMC(28・29日) 27 米5年国債入札 25 個人所得・消費支出(5月)18 製造業新規受注(1月) 28 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(2月) 28 個人所得・消費支出(4月) 25 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期確定)19 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 28 米7年国債入札 28 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期暫定) 25 米7年国債入札19 新築住宅販売件数(1月) 30 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(4月) 28 米7年国債入札 25 個人所得・消費支出(5月)24 米2年国債入札 30 個人所得・消費支出(3月) 28 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期暫定) 26 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(6月確報)25 米5年国債入札 30 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期速報) 29 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(5月) 30 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(6月)26 米7年国債入札 30 雇用コスト指数(1～3月期) 30 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(4月)27 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月確報)27 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期確定)31 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(3月)31 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(1月)

18 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(18・19日) 29 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(29・30日) 10 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(10・11日)19 英中銀金融政策委員会(19日) 30 英中銀金融政策委員会(30日) 18 英中銀金融政策委員会(18日)
米　国
欧　州

===== Page 79 =====

みずほリポート政権発足1年からみえた『トランプ流国家資本主義』の正体～日本企業が生き抜くための「攻め」と「守り」の戦略～（2026年1月20日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2026年1月作成
URLQRコード
ポイント①新自由主義の反動から生まれた『トランプ流国家資本主義』とは？ポイント② 『トランプ流国家資本主義』は米経済・ビジネスをどう変えるのか？ポイント③新たな米資本主義体制の中で、日系企業に求められる対応は？ポイント④ポスト・トランプで国家資本主義はどう変わるか？レポート
大統領権限を活用し経済安保分野の成⾧を促す一方、政策不確実性や物価高を助⾧。日本企業には同分野で好機だが、情報収集やコスト対応等が課題
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2026-0004/index.html
21

===== Page 80 =====

みずほリポート2026年の米経済は雇用を伴う成⾧へ回帰～財政政策と対米投資が国内需要を喚起～（2025年12月26日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2025年12月作成
URLQRコードポイント① 2025年は『雇用なき成⾧』ポイント② 2026年は『雇用を伴う成⾧』へポイント③ 迫る中間選挙レポート
トランプ政権が各国と結んだ対米投資案件は、徐々に実行段階へ。大規模な減税政策も内需の押し上げ要因となり、小規模企業の雇用マインドも上向きに
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2025-0164/index.html22

===== Page 81 =====

===== Page 82 =====

1

年率＋0.8％と1 次速報から上振れ 
を予想（10～12 月期2 次QE）

○ 2025年10～12月期の実質GDP（2次速報値）は前期比＋0.2％ （年率＋0.8％）と、1次速報の前期比＋
0.1％（年率＋0.2％）から上振れる見込み 
○ 法人企業統計調査の結果を受けて設備投資が上方修正と予測。個人消費は1次速報から変わらず小
幅増加にとどまるが、総じてみれば10～12月期の日本経済は緩やかな拡大となった模様 
○ 2026年度は堅調な景気拡大を予測するが、イラン攻撃の影響が懸念材料。原油価格が90ドルまで
高騰すれば、消費者物価が0.6％押し上げられ、家計負担が年間2.2万円増加する可能性

10～12月期の実質GDP（2
次速報値） は上方修正と
予測。設備投資の上振れ
が主因 
3月10日（火）に内閣府から2025年10～12月期の四半期別GDP速報（2次速
報値） が公表される。 本日発表された法人企業統計調査などを受けて推計し
たところ、2次速報では実質GDP成長率が前期比＋0.2％（年率＋0.8％）と、
1次速報の前期比＋0.1％（年率＋0.2％）から上方修正される見込みだ（図
表）。設備投資のプラス幅が拡大するとみられることが主な要因である。 個
人消費は1次速報から変わらず小幅増加にとどまると予想するが、総じてみ
れば、10～12月期の日本経済が緩やかに拡大したことを確認する結果になる
だろう。以下、需要項目別に予測の背景について見ていこう。 
図表 2025 年 10～12 月期GDP（2 次速報）

(注) 図の項目別寄与度の合計は、誤差により実質GDP に完全に一致しない。表の値は、言及がない限り実質前期比（％） 、括弧内は実質GDP
前期比に対する寄与度（％Pt） 。最新四半期の赤色は上方修正、青色は下方修正を意味する 
(出所) 内閣府「四半期別GDP 速報」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成 
▲0.8
▲0.6
▲0.4
▲0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2024 2025
（前期比、％）
設備投資
個人消費
公的
需要
在庫投資
実質GDP
外需
（四半期）
（年）
住宅投資
予測
2024 2025
10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12
実質GDP 0.5 0.3 0.5 ▲0.7 0.2 0.1 
（前期比年率） 1.9 1.0 2.1 ▲2.6 0.8 0.2 
（前年比） 0.6 1.6 2.0 0.6 0.2 0.1 
内需 ▲0.3 0.9 0.4 ▲0.4 0.2 0.0 
民需 ▲0.4 1.2 0.4 ▲0.4 0.2 0.1 
個人消費 0.1 0.7 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.1 
住宅投資 0.6 ▲0.2 0.0 ▲8.4 4.8 4.8 
設備投資 ▲0.2 0.2 1.3 ▲0.3 0.6 0.2 
在庫投資 (▲0.4) (0.5) (0.0) (▲0.1) (▲0.2) (▲0.2)
公需 ▲0.1 ▲0.2 0.3 ▲0.1 0.0 ▲0.2 
政府消費 0.1 ▲0.3 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 
公共投資 ▲0.2 ▲0.2 0.0 ▲1.5 ▲0.2 ▲1.3 
外需 (0.8) (▲0.6) (0.1) (▲0.3) (0.0) (0.0)
輸出 1.7 ▲0.2 1.9 ▲1.4 ▲0.3 ▲0.3 
輸入 ▲1.9 2.5 1.4 ▲0.1 ▲0.3 ▲0.3 
名目GDP 1.1 0.9 2.1 ▲0.0 0.7 0.6 
GDPデフレーター（前年比） 3.0 3.6 3.2 3.5 3.4 3.4 
1次QE
図表 3 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数  図表4 民間総賃金指数

2026 年 3 月 3 日 
Ｑ Ｅ 予 測 
調査部  
チーフ日本経済エコノミスト 
服部直樹 
080-1069-4667 
naoki.hattori@mizuho-rt.co.jp

===== Page 83 =====

2

設備投 資は上方修正を予
想 
10～12月期の法人企業統計調査では、設備投資（ソフトウェアを含む、金
融 ・ 保険を除く全産業、 季節調整値） が前期比＋3.5％（7～9月期 ： 同▲1.1％）
と2四半期ぶりに増加した。業種別では、製造業が同▲0.2％（7～9月期：同
▲5.6％）とわずかに減少した一方、非製造業が同＋5.4％（7～9月期：同＋
1.5％）と大きく増加して全体を押し上げた。7～9月期は米国関税政策によ
る不確実性の高まりが製造業を中心に設備投資の抑制要因になったが、7月
の日米関税合意やその後の対米輸出回復を受け、10～12月期は製造業の投資
減少が概ね一服した格好だ。 非製造業では主に実物投資が増加しており、 旺
盛なAI関連需要を受けてデータセンター関連の投資が進捗したとみられる。 
法人企業統計調査の結果を踏まえて推計すると、GDPベースの実質設備投
資は前期比＋0.6％と、1次速報 （同＋0.2％）から上方修正される見通しだ。 
設備投資が増加する背景には、 企業の堅調な景況感がある。日銀短観12月
調査では、大企業・製造業の業況判断DIが3四半期連続で改善したほか、大
企業・非製造業の業況判断DIも高い水準が続いている。 また、2025年度の設
備投資計画は良好な水準を維持しており、 企業の投資意欲が引き続き旺盛で
あることを確認する結果と言える。 とりわけ、 中小企業のソフトウェア投資
計画の伸び率が高く、 人手不足のなかでDX・省力化需要の高まりが鮮明にな
っている。 
10～12月期の企業業績についてみると、 法人企業統計調査では 経常利益
（金融・保険を除く全産業、季節調整値）が前期比＋1.6％（7～9月期：＋
3.8％）と3四半期連続で増加した。業種別では、製造業が同＋9.8％と大幅
に増加した。AI関連需要の好調さを背景に、半導体の製造装置や素材、デー
タセンター関連設備などが押し上げ要因になったとみられる。他方で、非製
造業は同▲2.6％と5四半期ぶりに減少した。人手不足を受けた省力化投資や
DX投資のニーズからIT関連業種が好調に推移した一方、食品を中心に消費者
の節約志向が高まり、コストの価格転嫁ペースが鈍って小売業の利益率を圧
迫した可能性がある。 
民間在庫投資は、法人企業統計調査による原材料在庫や仕掛品在庫の推計
値が加わるが、実質GDP前期比に対する寄与度は▲0.2％Ptと、1次速報から
変化はないと予想する。 
個人消費・住宅投資は1次
速報から修正されない見
込み 
個人消費の2次速報では、12月のサービス産業動態統計調査が新たに反映
されるが、1次速報（前期比＋0.1％）から変わらないだろう。7四半期連続
での増加ではあるものの、7～9月期（同＋0.4％）から増加ペースが鈍り、1
次速報と同様に10～12月期の個人消費が力強さを欠いたことを示す見込み
だ。 
10～12月期の個人消費の内訳をみると、 スマートフォン新製品の販売が好

===== Page 84 =====

3

調だったほか、自治体の補助制度を受けたエアコン購入の増加や、OSのサポ
ート終了に伴うPC買い替え需要の継続が、耐久財消費の押し上げ要因になっ
たとみられる。冬季ボーナスの高い伸びや、 株価の上昇による消費性向の高
まり（資産効果）も、高額品の消費拡大に影響した可能性があろう。また、
サービス消費では、家族客などを中心に外食需要が良好であったことに加
え、 年末年始の輸送需要も底堅く推移した。一方、非耐久財や半耐久財の消
費は弱い動きになった。非耐久財では食品を中心に価格が相対的に高まって
おり、 家計が財布のひもを締めて購入数量を減らしているようだ。半耐久財
では衣料品関連が伸び悩んでおり、 年末にかけて平年より気温が高く冬物の
売れ行きが鈍ったとみられるほか、 食品などの価格上昇による節約志向が影
響した可能性がある。 
所得面では、12月の所定内給与 （共通事業所ベース、確報）が前年比＋2.3％
（11月：同＋2.0％） と、2％前後の緩やかな上昇傾向を維持している。ただ
し、物価上昇の影響を除いた実質ベースの所定内給与は、 まだはっきりとし
たプラスにはなっていない。12月の消費者物価指数 （持家の帰属家賃を除く
総合）が前年比＋2.4％と、11月（同＋3.3％）から減速したものの、引き続
き賃金上昇率を超えているためだ。消費が力強く拡大するためには、インフ
レを上回る賃金上昇による実質賃金の継続的な改善が不可欠といえる。 
実際、 日本銀行の 「生活意識に関するアンケート調査」 （12月調査） では、
「暮らし向きDI」（前年対比で 「ゆとりが出てきた」と回答した割合から同
「ゆとりがなくなってきた」と回答した割合を差し引いた値）が▲52.2％Pt
と、家計の生活実感は引き続き低水準にとどまっている。同調査では「1年
前に比べ現在の物価は何％程度変化したと思うか」 に対する回答が平均値で
＋17.8％と高止まりしており、 購入頻度の高い食品などの値上げを受けて家
計の体感物価が未だ高水準であることが、 生活実感の低さに寄与しているよ
うだ。 
住宅投資も1次速報 （同＋4.8％） から変わらない見込みだ。住宅市場では、
2025年4月から新築住宅の省エネ基準適合が義務化されたことで、着工の駆
け込みと反動減が発生し、 建設進捗ベースで7～9月期の住宅投資が大幅に落
ち込んだ。10月にはようやく着工件数が駆け込み前の水準近くまで回復し、
10～12月期の住宅投資を支える要因になった。 
公的需要では、 公共投資
が上方修正されると予想 
公共投資では、底堅い結果になった12月分の建設総合統計の結果が反映さ
れ、前期比▲0.2％と1次速報（同▲1.3％）からマイナス幅が縮小すると予
想する。建設労働者の人手不足や建設コストの上昇などが引き続き下押し要
因になったものの、 防災 ・ 減災や国土強靭化の推進に関する公共事業が徐々
に進捗しつつあるとみられる。

===== Page 85 =====

4

一方、政府消費は1次速報（同＋0.1％）から修正されず、医療関連需要な
どの増加を受けて前期比プラスで推移したとみている。公的需要全体では前
期比＋0.0％と、1次速報（同▲0.2％）からやや上振れする見込みだ。 
外需は輸出入ともに 1次
速報どおりの結果と予想 
外需についても、1次速報時点で12月の国際収支統計まで反映されている
ことから、輸出（1次速報：前期比▲0.3％）、輸入（1次速報：同▲0.3％）
ともに2次速報では修正されないと予想する。 
10～12月期の財輸出動向について、日本銀行が公表する実質輸出指数をみ
ると、中国向けが前期比▲1.3％と減少しており、機械関連の輸出が伸び悩
んでいる。 中国国内の景気減速に伴う設備投資の抑制や、 現地企業との競争
激化が影響した可能性があろう。一方、米国向けは前期比＋3.3％と増加し
ており、なかでも自動車などの輸送用機器が牽引役となった。7月の日米関
税合意を受けた自動車関税の引き下げが9月に実施されたことに加え、米国
のEV購入補助廃止がハイブリッド車に強みをもつ日本車メーカーの現地販
売増加につながり、輸出を促した可能性がある。 
サービス輸出も精彩を欠いている。GDP統計においてインバウンド需要を
表す 「非居住者家計の国内での直接購入」 は、1次速報時点で前期比▲0.6％
（7～9月期：同▲8.6％）と、小幅ながらマイナスとなった。10～12月期の
訪日外客数は、日本の地震関連情報の拡散を受けた7～9月期の落ち込みから
回復したものの、 日中対立の影響で中国からの訪日客が減少し伸び悩んでい
る状況だ。 また、10～12月期における訪日客の消費単価は、 前年に比べて▲
0.5％と小幅に下落した。特に、中国人訪日客の買物代の落ち込みが顕著で
あり、いわゆる「おひとりさま」旅行や「コト消費」の増加といった中国人
訪日客の行動変化が現れている可能性がある。 
輸入面では、 デジタル関連を中心にサービス輸入が増加した一方、 財輸入
の減少が下押しした構図が改めて確認されるだろう。 財輸入を国 ・地域別に
みると、 特にEUからの輸入が足元で減少している。また、 品目別では主に輸
送用機器や化学製品、食料品が輸入の押し下げ要因になった。 
2次速報でも1次速報と同様、 輸出・輸入ともに同程度の減少幅になるとみ
られ、実質GDP成長率に対する外需の寄与度は＋0.0％Ptと1次速報から修正
されないと予想する。 
2026年1～3月期もプラス
成長が続くと予測 
以上のとおり、10～12月期の2次速報では設備投資を中心に実質GDP成長率
が上方修正されると予想する。GDPの約半分を占める個人消費は引き続き小
幅な伸びにとどまる見込みだが、 日本経済全体としては緩やかに拡大したこ
とを確認する結果になるだろう。 
先行きについてみると、2026年1～3月期の実質GDPは個人消費や設備投資
などの内需を中心に緩やかな拡大ペースを維持すると予想する。

===== Page 86 =====

5

個人消費は、 実質賃金の改善が追い風になると見込む。 名目賃金の上昇傾
向が続く一方、 食料インフレの減速や政府の物価高対策を受けて物価の伸び
が抑制されるためだ。2025年末にいわゆるガソリン暫定税率が廃止されたこ
とに加え、2025年度補正予算に盛り込まれた電気 ・ガス代支援の効果が2026
年2～4月のインフレ率を押し下げる（支援実施期間は1～3月）要因になる。
実際、2月の都区部コアCPI（生鮮食品を除く総合）は前年比＋1.8％（1月：
同＋2.0％） と、2024年10月以来の2％割れとなった。 こうした実質賃金の改
善に加えて、 足元のいわゆる 「高市トレード」 による株高も資産効果 （消費
性向の高まり）を通じて個人消費を支える要因になろう。 
設備投資は、企業の堅調な景況感・業績や、省力化・DX関連投資といった
構造的な投資需要を背景とする旺盛な設備投資意欲を受け、 拡大傾向が続く
だろう。なお、米国の関税政策については、2月20日の米連邦最高裁判所の
判決を受けて相互関税が廃止され、 新たな追加関税が発動された。 日本から
の輸出品に対する関税率は大きく変化しない見通しだが、 新たな追加関税が
時限的な措置であり、今後も米国関税政策に関する不確実性が残る点には注
意が必要だ。 
2026 年度 は前年比＋ 1％
前 後 の 堅 調 な 成 長 を 予
想。設備投資支援策が 押
し上げ要因に 
2026年度の日本経済は、 こうした個人消費や設備投資の拡大に、 高市政権
の総合経済対策の効果も本格的に加わり、前年比＋1％前後の堅調な成長に
なると見込まれる。 公共投資を中心とする公的需要の拡大、 エッセンシャル
ワーカーの処遇改善や子育て応援手当などを通じた消費喚起、 そして、 「危
機管理投資・成長投資」 による設備投資の支援策が、2026年度の成長率を押
し上げる主な要因になろう。 
2月8日に実施された衆議院選挙における自民党の大勝は、 こうした成長戦
略が着実に実施される可能性を高め、先行きの景気に対しプラス要因であ
る。特に設備投資については、いわゆる「17の戦略分野」に対する出資・補
助（基金）や、 幅広い産業を対象とする設備投資促進税制により、 実質設備
投資の伸びが1％Pt程度押し上げられると見込む。金利上昇による投資抑制
効果を考慮しても、設備投資にはプラスの影響がある計算だ。 
消費税減税はGDPを0.2％
押し上げる効果 
また、 衆院選の争点になった消費税減税について、与党案どおり飲食料品
の税率が現在の8％から0％に引き下げられた場合、（流通段階におけるマー
ジンの引き上げ等がなければ）税込価格の下落を通じて実質可処分所得が
1.5％程度増加すると考えられる。過去の傾向をもとに推計すると、実質個
人消費を0.4％程度、GDPを0.2％程度押し上げる効果があるだろう。 
日銀は2027年度半ばにか
け1.5％まで利上げへ 
金融政策については、経済・物価や為替の動向などを踏まえ、日本銀行が
今後2027年度半ばにかけて3回の追加利上げを行い、 政策金利が1.5％の水準
に到達すると現時点で見込んでいる。26年度内は、26年6月と27年1～3月に

===== Page 87 =====

6

それぞれ0.25％Ptの利上げを実施する見通しだ。 
イラン攻撃による原油価
格への影響が懸念材料 
今後のリスクとしては、米国・イスラエルによるイラン攻撃の影響が最大
の注目点だ。ホルムズ海峡を航行できない状態が長引き、 原油価格が90ドル
／バレル（2025年平均対比＋39％） まで上昇すると想定した場合、 日本の消
費者物価が0.6％程度押し上げられる可能性がある。そうしたシナリオが現
実のものになれば、2026年度に想定された実質賃金の改善が見通しにくくな
り、堅調な成長に黄信号がともりかねない。また、 原油価格が90ドル／バレ
ルに高騰すると、エネルギー価格の上昇などを通じ、家計（2人以上世帯）
では平均で年間2.2万円程度の負担増が生じる計算になる。家計向け給付や
エネルギー補助といった追加の支援策が求められれば、補正予算が膨らみ、
金融市場で財政懸念が再燃するリスクもあろう。 
日中関係悪化によるレア
アース・インバウンド影
響にも注意が必要 
日中関係の悪化による経済への影響にも引き続き注意が必要だ。軍民両用
品の輸出規制に伴い、仮に中国からのレアアース輸入が6カ月間にわたり半
減した状態が続くと、 自動車や機械関連を中心に国内生産が停滞して、 日本
のGDPが約0.1％下押しされる可能性がある。 
中国人訪日客のさらなる落ち込みによるインバウンド需要の下振れも、
2026年度の日本経済を下押しするリスク要因である。2026年1月の中国人訪
日客は前年比▲60.7％（2025年12月：同▲45.3％）と大幅に減少した。春節
時期のズレによりマイナス幅が拡大した可能性があるものの、 大幅な減少が
続いていることには変わりない。今後影響が長期化すれば、2026年度のGDP
に対して追加的に0.1～0.2％程度の押し下げ要因になる可能性がある。2026
年11月に中国 ・深圳で開催されるAPEC首脳会議などを見据え、 国家間の対話
が徐々に再開へ向かうかが注目される。 
なお、弊社では2月26日に最新の内外経済見通し「2026・2027年 内外経済
見通し ─ 二極化する世界  深まる「分断」と重み増す政府の役割  ─」
（https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2026-0019/index.html ）
を発行している。 経済見通しの詳細についてはこちらもあわせてご覧いただ
きたい。

===== Page 88 =====

© 2026 Mizuho Research & Technologies, Ltd.
2026年2月26日
1
2026・2027年 内外経済見通し二極化する世界～深まる「分断」と重み増す政府の役割～調査本部

===== Page 89 =====

構 成
2
1．全体概要 P 42．各国経済・金融市場 P 11
（1）米国経済 P 12
（2）欧州経済 P 18
（3）アジア新興国経済 P 25
（4）日本経済・金融市場 P 37

===== Page 90 =====

見通しのポイント
○ 世界経済は、2026年は前年対比で減速するものの、底堅いAI需要に加え各国の財政出動が下支え。2027年は財政による押し上げ効果が一服する一方で民間投資が底堅く推移し、巡航速度である3％近傍の成長ペースを維持する見通し○ 米国は、2026年はAI関連投資や減税政策により内需主導で景気が拡大。2027年にはAI関連投資がソフトランディングへ向かい、設備投資は巡航速度に回帰へ。AI実装による生産性上昇がインフレ圧力を吸収し、FRBは2026年内に2回の利下げを実施○ 欧州は、2026年は防衛費増やドイツのインフラ投資などの財政拡張が押し上げ、内需主導で成長は加速。エネルギー高やデジタル化の遅れがボトルネックとなり財政拡張による押し上げ効果は持続せず、2027年後半から景気は減速する見通し。インフレ率が2％程度で安定的に推移するなか、ECBは当面の間政策金利を据え置き○ 中国は、不動産不況のもと内需が停滞。外需による下支えのハードルも高まり、2026年から2027年にかけて景気減速が続く見通し。アジアは外需と投資が足元の成長をけん引も、2026年から2027年にかけてはAIブームのソフトランディングに伴う輸出増勢鈍化や中国製品の流入増を受け景気は減速へ○ 日本は、2026年度は総合経済対策が追い風となり、内需主導で景気が拡大。2027年度は消費税減税や輸出の持ち直しを受け成長が加速する見通し。食品価格の高騰一服や物価高対策によりインフレ率は2026年度前半に一旦鈍化するも、高水準の賃上げ継続を受けて年度後半に再び2％へ向け上昇する見込み○ 日銀は概ね半年に1回の利上げペースを維持し、2026年6月、2027年1～3月期に追加利上げを実施すると予想。財政に対する過度な懸念は後退しつつある一方、実質金利の低さが意識されるなか円高圧力は引き続き限定的であり、ドル円相場は150円台の円安水準が継続する見通し

3（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 91 =====

4
1．全体概要

===== Page 92 =====

（前年比、％）（％Pt）2024 2025 2026 2027 2025 2026（着地見込）（見通し） （見通し） （12月見通しとの比較） 世界実質GDP成長率3.3 3.5 3.3 3.1 0.1 0.1 日米欧1.7 1.8 1.7 1.7 0.1 - 米国 2.8 2.2 2.4 2.1 0.1 0.3 ユーロ圏0.9 1.5 1.4 1.4 0.1 ▲ 0.1 英国 1.1 1.4 1.1 1.1 - - 日本▲ 0.2 1.1 0.5 1.9 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.4 アジア 5.3 5.5 4.7 4.3 0.1 0.1中国 5.0 5.0 4.1 3.6 0.1 - NIEs 3.4 4.0 3.0 2.2 0.5 0.7 ASEAN55.1 5.1 4.6 4.8 0.2 - インド6.7 7.6 6.7 6.5 - 0.2オーストラリア1.1 1.8 1.7 1.8 - - 日本(年度)0.5 0.7 1.0 1.4 ▲ 0.3 -
世界経済見通し：成長率は巡航速度を維持。一方、適応の可否で二極化（分断）が進行

（注） 網掛け部分は予測値。世界成長率はIMFによるGDPシェア（PPP）により計算（出所）IMF、各国・地域統計より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
世界経済見通し総括表
2026年はAI関連需要が景気を押し上げた前年からは減速も、各国の財政出動がプラス要因に。2027年には財政効果が一服するも、民間投資が底堅く推移し3％近傍の成長ペースを維持
2026年は家計・企業向け減税などが景気を押し上げ。2027年には財政効果がはく落するなか、AI投資が減速しつつもプラスの伸びを維持し続けるもとで、2％近傍の成長に
2026年には公共部門で成長加速見込みも、民間部門への効果波及は限定的。2027年後半には巡航速度に回帰
政府の後押しもあり、民間設備投資の伸びが加速。インフレ鈍化を受けた実質所得の改善から、個人消費は緩やかに持ち直し。日銀は2027年度半ばまでに政策金利を1.5％へ引き上げ
補助金効果のはく落で内需が減速するなか、外需が経済を支える構図が継続。不動産部門の低迷長期化は、資産効果を通じて消費の重石に

5

===== Page 93 =====

競争力向上を促す産業政策/人材投資型の再分配/戦略的外交などと が問われる時代に
世界観：堅調経済の裏側で進む競争環境の変化。国力を反映する秩序への移行と広がる分断
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成6
存在感高める中国（激化する米中対立）
内向き志向強める米国（格差拡大・世論分断）
加速するAIの社会実装（変化する成長の質）
厳しさ増す国家間競争（高まる成長・安保への懸念）
変わる政府の役割（市場から政府への重心シフト）
世界で広がる国家資本主義（大きな政府）の流れ
経済ブロック化が招く根強いインフレ圧力財政懸念による長期金利上昇AIの社会実装がもたらす恩恵の偏在
背景
変化
対応と副作用
新常態
国家間ならびに国内の双方で固定化する「K字型経済」～進む「持てる者（国・企業）」による寡占と「持たざる者」の疲弊～
各国間 各国内

===== Page 94 =====

05010015020025030035040045050010 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25（年）
（件数）
根強いインフレ：国家資本主義と経済ブロック化が加速。世界経済は“高コスト体質”へ移行経済安全保障意識の高まりを受けて超大国を筆頭に、政府は市場経済への関与を強化する傾向（国家資本主義）― 米国は国内の緊急事態法制を利用した関税政策を世界各国に対し実行― 中国は米国の関税や内需低迷による下押しを補うため、余剰となった国内製品を安価に海外へ輸出（輸出ドライブ）米関税政策や中国の輸出ドライブへの対抗措置などを受け、差別的な貿易政策措置の件数は増加基調で推移― 自由貿易の後退を受け、世界の輸入単価は再び上昇傾向。経済ブロック化がコスト増となりインフレ圧力に
（注） 各国の貿易統計に基づき、輸入金額÷輸入数量により算出した平均単価（出所） オランダ経済分析局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
世界の輸入単価世界で実行された差別的な貿易政策措置の件数

（注） 外国との取引に対して差別的な影響を与える可能性のある政策措置を計上（出所）Global Trade Alertより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
8085909510010511011519 20 21 22 23 24 25 26（年）
（2021年=100） ウクライナ戦争によるエネルギー高
サプライチェーンの分断が世界のコスト高要因に
7
米国の関税政策や中国による報復措置などを背景に自由貿易は後退

===== Page 95 =====

日本
米国
ドイツ
▲ 12
▲ 10
▲ 8
▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30（年）
（GDP比、％）
ドイツフランス
英国
日本
米国
▲1012345606 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26（年）
（％）
くすぶる財政懸念：財政拡張が景気を支える一方で高まる金利上昇懸念国家資本主義の台頭を背景に、各国政府は経済安全保障分野への投資や分配政策に傾注― 日米独の構造的財政収支は、拡張的な財政政策を受け赤字幅が拡大へ政府の関与拡大を志向する政策運営は財政・金融政策への信認が揺らぐ一因に― 米欧の10年債利回りはインフレ圧力の高まり等を背景に2022年以降に急上昇し、足元も高止まり。日本は相対的に緩やかな上昇にとどまっていたものの、財政懸念から上昇ペースが足元で加速。財政拡張の副作用が意識される局面に
（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
主要国の10年債利回り主要国の構造的財政収支（IMF予測）

（注）2025年10月時点の予測（日本は2023年まで、米国・ドイツは2024年まで実績値）。構造的財政収支とは、景気循環の影響など一時的な要因を取り除いた財政収支を指す（出所）IMFより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成8
財政・金融政策への信認が揺らぐなか、主要国の長期金利は上昇国家資本主義の台頭を背景に財政赤字は拡大へ

===== Page 96 =====

日本
英国ドイツ
米国
6080100120140160180
80 85 90 95 00 05 10 15 20 25（年）
（1990年=100）
進む二極化：先進国間で拡大する「成長格差」と日本国内で進む「分断」先進国間で拡大する成長力格差― 主要国の一人当たり実質GDPの推移を見ると、各国間で成長力格差が鮮明。米国の強さの一方で、日本の不振ぶりが際立つ。技術革新など環境変化への対応力が、国家の成長軌道を左右所得階層の分断を映す日本の相対的貧困率―OECDによる相対的貧困率（世帯規模を考慮した可処分所得中央値の50％未満の人口割合）を見ると、日本は15.4％と米国に次ぐ高さ。欧州主要国に比べて貧困層が多い＝国内格差が大きいことを示唆
（注） 自国通貨建て。2025年はIMFによる予測値（2025年10月時点）（出所） 各国統計、IMFより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
主要国の一人当たり実質GDPの推移
9
主要国の相対的貧困率※
（注） 日本は2022年、その他の国は2023年調査（出所）OECDより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

先進国間で拡大する成長格差鈍さが際立つ日本の回復ペース※世帯可処分所得中央値の50％未満の割合
18.1
15.4
8.3
11.612.211.8
0%2%4%6%8%10%12%14%16%18%20%
米国 日本 フランス ドイツ イタリア 英国
日本の相対的貧困率は米国に次ぐ高さ。背景に高齢化や非正規雇用の拡大、再分配機能の歪み等

===== Page 97 =====

各国論点
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
AI主導の成長ストーリーは持続するのか
自立に向けた改革は競争力回復につながるか
内需停滞を輸出で補う構図は持続するか
生産性を高め、持続的な賃上げにつなげられるか日本
中国
欧州
米国
10
生産性押し上げ効果の評価とその持続性蓄積する国民の不満と中間選挙の行方電力や人材など供給制約リスク
欧州経済が抱える構造問題の深さ政策パッケージの評価（競争力回復につながる投資か単なるバラマキか）政治的分断による改革停滞リスク
長期化する不動産不況の再評価根強いデフレ圧力。転換迫られる中国型成長モデル各国で高まる輸出ドライブへの警戒感（さらなる経済ブロック化のリスク）
危機管理投資・成長投資の効果金利ある世界への適応に向けた企業の生産性向上問われる成長と分配のバランス。鍵握る財政に対する市場の信認

===== Page 98 =====

11
2．各国経済・金融市場

===== Page 99 =====

2024 2025 2026 2027 2025 2026 2027（見通し） 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12実質GDP 前期比年率、％2.8 2.2 2.4 2.1 ▲ 0.6 3.8 4.4 1.4 2.3 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 2.0個人消費前期比年率、％2.9 2.7 2.3 2.1 0.6 2.5 3.5 2.4 2.0 2.3 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1住宅投資前期比年率、％3.2 ▲ 2.2 ▲ 1.1 1.7 ▲ 1.0 ▲ 5.1 ▲ 7.1 ▲ 1.6 ▲ 0.4 1.2 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7 1.7設備投資前期比年率、％2.9 4.2 2.8 2.1 9.5 7.3 3.2 3.7 2.0 2.2 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1 2.1在庫投資前期比年率寄与度、％Pt0.0 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.2 0.1 2.6 ▲ 3.4 ▲ 0.1 0.2 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0政府支出前期比年率、％3.8 1.2 0.6 1.4 ▲ 1.0 ▲ 0.1 2.2 ▲ 5.1 3.5 1.2 1.2 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.4 1.2純輸出 前期比年率寄与度、％Pt▲ 0.4 ▲ 0.2 0.6 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 4.7 4.8 1.6 0.1 0.1 0.1 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.0 ▲ 0.0 ▲ 0.0輸出 前期比年率、％3.6 1.7 1.3 1.5 0.2 ▲ 1.8 9.6 ▲ 0.9 0.2 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.6 1.7 1.7 1.8輸入 前期比年率、％5.8 2.7 ▲ 2.9 1.5 38.0 ▲ 29.3 ▲ 4.4 ▲ 1.3 ▲ 0.6 0.2 1.5 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.5失業率 ％4.0 4.3 4.4 4.2 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.2個人消費支出ﾃﾞﾌﾚｰﾀｰ前年比、％2.6 2.6 2.4 2.1 2.6 2.4 2.7 2.8 2.6 2.4 2.3 2.3 2.2 2.1 2.0 2.0食品・ｴﾈﾙｷﾞｰを除くｺｱ前年比、％2.9 2.8 2.5 2.1 2.8 2.7 2.9 2.9 2.7 2.5 2.4 2.3 2.2 2.1 2.0 2.0

（１）米国：先行きの景気は内需主導で拡大。AIによる生産性上昇がインフレ圧力を吸収2026・27年の実質GDP成長率はそれぞれ前年比＋2.4％、同＋2.1％と予想―26年は関税の悪影響が徐々にはく落する中で、減税政策が個人消費を押し上げ。雇用も緩やかに回復―AI関連投資は過熱感が和らぎ、ソフトランディングへ。それに伴い設備投資の伸びは減速し、27年にかけて巡航速度に回帰。他方で、AI実装による生産性の上昇が本格化し、インフレ圧力を吸収FRBはインフレ鈍化を背景に26年中盤・後半に1回ずつ（計2回）の利下げ。その後は、インフレ・雇用が安定的に推移するもと、中立金利近傍（3.00％～3.25％）の水準を維持する見込み
12
（注） 網掛けはみずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズによる予測値（出所） 米国商務省、米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
米国経済見通し総括表

===== Page 100 =====

労働生産性
労働投入
GDP
▲2▲101234567
2010 2015 2020 2025
（前年比、％）
（年）
GDPを労働生産性と労働投入に分解すると、コロナ前までは労働投入の寄与大。足元では労働生産性が押し上げ要因に―2010年代は豊富な移民流入を背景に労働投入が大幅に拡大し成長を押し上げ。直近は高齢化やトランプ政権の移民抑制政策を背景に労働投入の寄与が縮小。他方で労働生産性の寄与が拡大― 労働生産性を「投資の量（資本装備率）」と「投資の質（全要素生産性）」に分解すると、AI投資拡大を受けて資本装備率が押し上げ。効率性など全要素生産性（TFP）はコロナ前と比べほぼ変わらず。AI投資が「量」から「質」へとバトンタッチできるかが生産性改善の持続性を左右
米国：AI投資が生産性を底上げ。生産性改善の持続性と波及の広がりが焦点
13
GDPの成長要因別寄与度分解
（注）2025年はQ3までの実績値をもとに試算（出所） 米国商務省、労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2010年代は労働投入が成長率を押し上げ対して足元では労働生産性の寄与が拡大

労働生産性
を決めるのは
「投資の量（資本装備率）」と
「投資の質（全要素生産性）」

===== Page 101 =====

データセンターや研究開発、ロボット等への大規模投資によって、労働者1人あたりが装備する資本量が増加
米国：労働生産性の持続性を決める２つの要素とAI投資３つの特徴
②AI投資の質（TFP：全要素生産性）
①AI投資の量（資本装備率）
労働生産性の持続性を決める２つの要素
14
AI利活用を通じたビジネスモデル見直し等による効率化と付加価値向上（同じ資本でより多くの価値を創出）
AI投資の３つの特徴（例：IT投資との比較）
②産業構造
①普及速度
③供給制約
過去の技術に比べて早い普及速度
進む製造業の空洞化国内波及効果は低下（アジアに漏れ出す恩恵）
大量に消費する電力・水物理的な制約が足かせに
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 102 =====

415
945
01002003004005006007008009001,00024 30
（TW/h）
（年）
非製造業
製造業
▲0.50.51.52.53.54.5（年平均上昇率、％）
（年）
AI
コンピューター
インターネット
1015202530354045500 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10
（普及率、％）
（市場に投入されてからの年数）
米国：AIが労働生産性を引き上げる公算大。ただし不確実性は引き続き残存
15
産業構造△
普及速度○
供給制約△
AI投資が徐々にTFPに波及し労働生産性は緩やかに上昇
AIの業務実装が急速に拡大し、効率化等に大きく貢献。ロボット等への投資も増加。労働生産性は力強く上昇
メインシナリオ
サブシナリオ
（出所） 米国商務省、労働省、Gallup、IEAより みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
供給制約などから、労働生産性は伸びず
リスクシナリオ
2.6％ 0.9％労働生産性：1.8％（2027年時点）※2015～19年：0.9％

AIの普及スピードはインターネットやコンピューターを超えるペース
アジアへの生産移管が進み、製造業による生産性押し上げ効果は低減
電力需要は2030年に2倍超え。電力供給の強化が急務
新技術の普及スピード（業務での利用率）業種別の労働生産性上昇率世界のデータセンターの電力需要予測

===== Page 103 =====

全要素生産性:TFP（左）情報機器投資（右）05101520250.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.41.61.82.090 95 00 05 10
（前年比、％）
（年）
（前年比、％）
（参考）労働生産性の想定：ITブーム期との相違点（サービス中心・普及速度）を定性的に織り込みITブーム期に情報通信機器投資が急増。3～4年程度のラグを伴って全要素生産性（TFP）も大きく上昇（0.6％⇒1.6％）―AIブームについても、設備投資の増加から3～4年程度のラグを伴ってTFPが高まると想定。なお、ITブーム期に一度高まったTFPは10年程度にわたり持続的に上昇― メインシナリオでは資本装備率の寄与度は25年から27年にかけ徐々に縮小（25年0.5⇒27年0.4）する一方で、TFPは拡大（同0.5⇒1.4）。労働生産性はITブーム期の前半（96～98年）程度の伸び（同1.0⇒1.8）に加速 ― サブシナリオの労働生産性はITブーム期終盤（03～05年）、リスクシナリオはコロナ前（15～19年）程度の伸びを想定

16
情報通信機器投資とTFPの伸び率（ITブーム期）
IT投資に3～4年程度遅れてTFPが上昇
（注） 変動が大きいため、5年移動平均をとっている（出所） 米国商務省、労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
労働生産性（①＋②）
全要素生産性（②）
資本装備率（①）
単位：%1.8 （25年:1.0） 1.4 （25年:0.5） 0.4 （25年:0.5）メインシナリオ
2.6 2.0 0.6 サブシナリオ
0.9 0.7 0.2 リスクシナリオ
2.61.6 1.0 ITブーム期（96-05年平均）
各シナリオにおける労働生産性の想定
ファブレス化でITブーム期に比べ資本装備率は小さめビジネスへの活用度で生産性改善効果に差（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 104 =====

FOMC参加者が見込む中立金利
2.02.53.03.54.04.55.05.56.0
23 24 25 26 27
（％）
（年）
▲4▲3▲2▲10123456 時間当たり賃金労働生産性人件費の上昇圧力
（年平均伸び率、％）
（年）
ITバブル期には、人件費の上昇圧力を生産性向上が吸収
米国：生産性上昇によるインフレ減速を背景に、2026年内に2回の利下げを予想生産性上昇がインフレ圧力を吸収。2026年内に2回の利下げを予想―ITバブル期は、労働生産性の大幅な伸びが賃金によるインフレ圧力を抑制―今後、労働生産性の拡大が見込まれる中で、インフレ率は減速継続へ。26年末のコアPCEデフレーターは前年比＋2.3％と、FRBの想定（同＋2.5％）対比で下振れる見通し―ウォーシュ新議長が率いるFRBは、インフレ鈍化を背景に政策金利を26年中盤、後半に1回ずつ（計2回）引き下げると予想。政策金利は3.00～3.25％に
17
（注）2025年はQ3までの実績値をもとに試算。図中の凡例では、単位労働コストを人件費の上昇圧力と表記（出所） 米国商務省、米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

単位労働コスト（人件費の上昇圧力）の分解政策金利の見通し
（出所）FRBより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
今後は時間当たり賃金に上昇圧力がかかる一方、生産性の拡大が人件費を抑制
①生産性改善によるインフレ鈍化②ウォーシュ新議長（生産性改善効果に前向き）就任を背景に26年は計2回の利下げを予想見通し

===== Page 105 =====

（２）欧州：2026年は成長加速も一時的。2027年には巡航速度に回帰する見込み2026年は財政拡張により成長ペースが加速。ドイツを中心とした財政出動が本格化― 防衛費の増額やEU復興基金に加えて、ドイツのインフラ投資基金が投資を押し上げ― ただし、GDPギャップは小幅プラスにとどまり、物価は2％付近で安定する見通し2027年は巡航速度に回帰。エネルギー高をはじめとした構造問題が重石となり、民間投資加速には至らず― 通年成長率は1.4％と高成長だが、ゲタの影響を除けば潜在成長率（1.2％）並み。四半期ベースでは前期比＋0.3％程度に減速する見通し
18
（出所）Eurostatより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ユーロ圏経済総括表2024 2025 2026 2027（見通し） 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12実質GDP前期比、％0.9 1.5 1.4 1.4 0.6 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3内需 前期比寄与度、％Pt0.6 2.2 1.6 1.3 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.5 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3個人消費前期比、％1.3 1.3 1.3 1.4 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3総固定資本形成前期比、％▲ 2.0 2.7 1.3 1.5 2.6 ▲ 1.6 1.0 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3政府消費前期比、％2.3 1.7 1.6 1.3 0.1 0.4 0.7 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3在庫投資前期比寄与度、％Pt▲ 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.0 ▲ 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0外需 前期比寄与度、％Pt0.3 ▲ 0.5 ▲ 0.2 0.0 0.1 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.1 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0輸出 前期比、％0.6 2.0 0.3 0.8 2.2 ▲ 0.4 0.8 ▲ 0.6 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2輸入 前期比、％▲ 0.1 3.5 0.7 0.8 2.3 ▲ 0.0 1.4 ▲ 0.5 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2消費者物価指数前年比、％2.4 2.1 1.8 2.0 2.3 2.0 2.1 2.1 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 食品・エネルギーを除くコア前年比、％2.8 2.4 2.0 2.0 2.6 2.4 2.3 2.4 2.2 2.0 1.9 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0

2025 2026 2027

===== Page 106 =====

成長加速も一時的。競争力回復・生産性上昇には遅れ
欧州：外圧を受け競争力強化へカジ。財政出動だけでは成長力回復は限定的
19（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
中国：輸出ドライブ
米国：相互関税、安全保障
ロシア：地政学的脅威
強まる外圧
高い規制コスト
根強く残る構造問題
エネルギー高
厳格な財政ルール
中国依存
競争力低下を受けて財政拡張に転換
相互影響
財政支援による産業育成
防衛費・インフラ（再軍備計画・独インフラ基金）エネルギー（REPowerEU） デジタル技術の育成（欧州半導体法）
財政資金の配分に偏り加盟国間の利害対立進まない規制改革構造的制約

===== Page 107 =====

労働投入
労働生産性
GDP成長率
潜在成長率
▲ 0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
01-0506-1011-1516-1920-2223-25261Q
271Q
（前年比、前期比年率、％）
（年） 0 20 40
その…
イン…
防衛
エネ…
イノ…
0 50 100
その他
インフラ
防衛
エネルギー
イノベーション補助金
投融資
欧州：財政は短期の追い風にとどまり、人口減少と改革遅れが中期成長を制約2027年は高成長も、年央には巡航速度に回帰。財政政策による持続的な労働生産性押し上げは期待できず― 人口減少を上回るほどの労働生産性改善は見込めず。構造問題が民間投資の重石に財政の真水はインフラ等が中心。欧州経済低迷の主因であるイノベーションやエネルギー分野への配分は小― 欧州経済はコロナ禍以降のエネルギー高やAIブームへの乗り遅れにより低迷。しかし、イノベーションやエネルギー分野の真水部分は相対的に小さく、投融資の形での配分が主。不確実性が高く企業がリスク回避的な状況下では、競争力向上に直結する民間投資の誘発には至らないと予想

20
（出所）Eurostat、欧州委員会より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
（注） 左図は生成AIを用いて分類。補助金は中期予算（MFF）と復興基金、投融資は復興基金・SAFE・EIBを含む。予算の支出実績やEIB運営計画等を参考に作成。その他は移民・教育・農業等。独インフラ基金は、デジタル・研究開発向けをイノベーション、交通・医療施設・住宅向けをインフラに分類（出所） 欧州委員会、ドイツ政府、各種報道より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ユーロ圏：GDP成長率の見通しEU予算、独インフラ・気候保護特別基金の内訳【EU予算】
（10億ユーロ）
【独特別基金】
インフラ等に重点配分
巡航速度に回帰
見通し

===== Page 108 =====

米国
中国EU
020406080100120140160180200
12 14 16 18 20 22 24
（10億ドル）
（年）
▲ 0.10.0 0.1 0.2非ICT投資（全産業）非ICT投資（製造業）その他知財投資（製造業）R&D（全産業）ソフトウェア（製造業）ソフトウェア（全産業）人的資本投資（製造業）その他知財投資（全産業）ICT（有形）投資（製造業）ICT（有形）投資（全産業）人的資本投資（全産業）R&D（製造業）
（％）
欧州：AI投資は拡大も規模は限定的。米国との差は埋まらず成長格差が残存欧州でもAI向けVC投資が増加。ただし、米国ほどの力強さは見られず―VCによる欧州のAI投資額は、2025年に158億ユーロと2019年対比で2倍以上に増加したが、米国対比で小規模労働生産性引き上げにはICT・研究開発投資等の拡大が必須だが、公的支出による押し上げは期待できず― 先行研究によれば、労働生産性引き上げ効果が確認されたのはICT投資のほか、R&D（製造業）や人的資本投資。イノベーションを促す効果が大きいハイテク投資の役割が重要に― しかし、EUやドイツの財政政策はインフラ・防衛など非ICT投資が中心。TFPへの影響は限定的と予想

21
（出所）OECD.AIより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
AI関連のVC投資額 投資形態別の労働生産性への影響
（注）1.System GMMによる推計値、期間は2000～17年。白抜きは有意でない係数2.人的資本投資は、広告・市場調査、組織資本、訓練を含む（出所）Adarov and Stehrer（2019）”Tangible and Intangible Assets in the Growth Performance of the EU, Japan and the US”より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
緩やかに増加
R&D（製造業） 、人的資本、ICT投資が労働生産性を押し上げ
↑統計的に有意↓有意ではない

===== Page 109 =====

6.07.08.09.010.011.012.005010015020025030035040094 99 04 09 14 19 24
獲得議席数得票率(右)
（議席）
（年）
（%）
欧州：域内の自国優先主義の広がりが、EUとしての政策遂行能力を阻害するリスク移民問題争点化や過激な主張を控える「脱悪魔化」の奏功等により極右ポピュリズム政党は年々支持拡大。政権入りや閣外協力、最大野党として政権に圧力を強める等の経路から自国優先的政策の実現を志向。EU内の合意形成難化要因に2027年仏大統領選で極右大統領誕生の可能性高まる― 世論調査では国民連合・バルデラ党首が支持率トップと、極右の大統領誕生の可能性が高い状況。同氏は財政・経済政策で現実路線にシフトしつつある一方、国家主権重視の立場からEU統合やEU全体としての防衛力強化には消極的―バルデラ氏当選の場合、EU中期予算の合意形成難航や市場統合、競争力・防衛力強化に向けた取り組み停滞の恐れ
22
（注） データ取得可能なEU加盟国の国政議会選挙における各期間のポピュリスト政党の獲得議席数と得票率を集計。5年後方移動平均（出所）ParlGov、The PopuListより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

極右ポピュリズム政党の獲得議席数と得票率仏大統領候補者の支持率と政策スタンス
（注） 現時点で立候補表明していない者も表示（出所）ECFR、Odoxa、政党HP、各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
防衛費増額移民財政規律EU統合支持率 〇※EUの防衛力強化策には反対×△×39％バルデラ（極右） 〇△〇〇32％フィリップ（中道） 〇△〇〇31％アタル（中道） 〇×〇〇29％ルタイヨー（中道右派） 〇△〇〇24％グリュックスマン（中道左派） 〇△〇〇17％フォール（中道左派） ×〇××14％メランション（極左）
賛成〇 反対× 部分的賛成△
極右ポピュリズムが拡大

===== Page 110 =====

潜在成長率
財政効果
需給ギャップ（右） ▲1.0
▲0.50.00.51.01.52.0
▲2.0
▲1.00.01.02.03.04.015 17 19 21 23 25 27
（前年比、％）
（年）
（％）潜在成長率との差
▲3.3
▲5.4
▲3.2
▲4.8▲5.0
▲3.6
▲6
▲5
▲4
▲3
▲2
▲10
スペイン イタリア ドイツ フランス ユーロ圏
20252026（GDP比、％）
EU財政ルール
（参考）欧州：財政拡張も民間投資への波及は限定的。需給ひっ迫によるインフレ加速には至らず財政拡張はGDPを0.4％押し上げと試算。民間投資誘発効果は限定的― 各国予算案から計算されるユーロ圏の財政収支は、2025年：▲3.2％→2026年▲3.6％と赤字拡大の見込み―EU復興基金は2021年に開始され、2026年末で拠出期限を迎える予定だが、2025年末時点で約4割程度が未消化。引き出しペース加速も後押し― ただし、民間投資加速などの乗数効果発現には時間を要すると予想。エネルギーコスト高をはじめ構造問題が重石に―需給ギャップは2027年に0.2％程度の小幅プラスにとどまり、インフレ加速のリスクは小

23
（注） スペインは2026年予算未提出のため、欧州委員会による予測値（2025年11月時点）を表示（出所） 欧州委員会、各種報道より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ユーロ圏：2026年予算案に基づく財政収支財政拡張による需給ギャップへの影響
（注）EU復興基金は、前回EU中期予算の引き出しペースを参考に、これまでの1.3倍にペースが加速すると仮定。財政支出増加幅のうち20％が輸入で賄われると設定。また、2026・2027年に均等に効果が発現する形で配分（出所）Eurostat、欧州委員会より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
需給ギャップは小幅プラス▲0.4％の赤字拡大

===== Page 111 =====

0123456212223242526
サービス物価賃金に敏感なサービスIndeed募集賃金（6カ月先行）
（前年比、％）
（年）
コア
食料品等エネルギー
消費者物価指数
▲0.50.00.51.01.52.02.53.024 25 26 27
（前年比、％）
（年）
欧州：ECBは当面政策金利を据え置く見込み。賃金インフレや財政出動によるインフレ懸念は小サービス物価は減速継続。先行指標も賃金・サービスインフレ圧力の低下を示唆―1月のユーロ圏消費者物価は前年比＋1.7％（12月：同＋2.0％）と減速。エネルギーやサービスが押し下げ要因― サービス物価に半年程度先行するIndeed募集賃金は、遅くとも年央にはサービス物価が2％台に突入すると示唆景気・物価安定を背景に、政策金利は先行きも据え置き継続の見通し― インフレ率はエネルギー価格低下やユーロ高を受けて一時的に下振れも、2027年には2％程度に回帰すると予想
24
（注）1．賃金に敏感なサービスは、中間投入に占める賃金コストの比率が平均よりも高い品目2．Indeed募集賃金は3カ月後方移動平均（出所）Eurostat、Indeed Hiring Labより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

ユーロ圏：サービス物価とIndeed募集賃金 ユーロ圏：消費者物価指数の見通し
（出所）Eurostatより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
サービス物価は減速継続先行指標は2％台突入を示唆 見通し2％に回帰

===== Page 112 =====

（３）新興国：中国は内需停滞が継続、その他アジアはAI関連輸出が成長をけん引中国は、2026年の成長率見通しを4.1％、2027年を3.6％と予測―2025年は政府目標通りの5.0％で着地も、四半期ベースでみると補助金切れなどにより年末にかけて緩やかに減速―2026～27年は、不動産不況のもと内需が停滞。外需による下支えのハードルも高まり、成長は減速が続く見通しその他アジアは、AI関連輸出による下支えが継続するものの、中国製品流入が内需を下押し徐々に成長は減速―2025年は台湾・韓国・マレーシアを中心に電子部品輸出が成長をけん引。内需主導国は消費が下支え―2026～27年は、AIブームのソフトランディングに伴い輸出が減速する見込み。中国製品の流入増も内需を下押し
25
（注） 実質GDP成長率（前年比、％）、網掛けは予測値（出所） 各国統計局、IMFより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
新興国見通し総括表2024年 2025年 2026年 2027年1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～95.3 5.5 4.7 4.3 5.8 5.1 4.8 5.3 5.5 5.7 5.6中国 5.0 5.0 4.1 3.6 5.3 4.7 4.6 5.4 5.4 5.2 4.8NIEs 3.4 4.0 3.0 2.2 4.5 3.5 3.1 2.6 2.4 3.5 4.3韓  国 2.0 1.0 1.8 2.0 3.4 2.2 1.4 1.1 ▲ 0.0 0.6 1.8台  湾 5.3 8.7 5.6 3.0 7.2 5.3 4.7 4.1 5.5 7.7 8.4香  港 2.6 3.5 2.1 1.5 2.8 3.0 1.9 2.5 3.0 3.1 3.8シンガポール 5.3 5.0 2.2 2.0 4.3 4.8 7.0 5.3 3.9 4.6 4.6ASEAN5 5.1 5.1 4.6 4.8 4.7 5.3 5.2 5.2 4.9 5.2 4.8インドネシア 5.0 5.1 4.9 5.0 5.1 5.0 4.9 5.0 4.9 5.1 5.0タ  イ 2.9 2.4 1.9 2.1 2.1 2.7 3.3 3.7 3.1 2.8 1.2マレーシア 5.1 5.2 4.3 4.2 4.2 5.9 5.4 4.9 4.4 4.4 5.4フィリピン 5.7 4.4 4.5 5.2 5.9 6.5 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.5 3.9ベトナム 7.0 8.0 6.8 6.5 5.9 7.2 7.4 7.5 7.0 8.2 8.3インド 6.7 7.6 6.7 6.5 8.4 6.5 5.6 6.4 7.4 7.8 8.2オーストラリア1.1 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.3 1.0 0.9 1.1 1.5 1.9 2.0（参考）NIEs＋ASEAN54.5 4.7 4.0 3.8 4.6 4.6 4.4 4.2 4.0 4.5 4.7（参考）中国を除くアジア5.6 6.2 5.5 5.2 6.5 5.6 5.0 5.3 5.7 6.2 6.5

アジア 2024年 2025年（見通し）

===== Page 113 =====

実質GDP成長率
+4.1+3.6
▲10123456723 24 25 26 27（年）
（前年比、％）
中国：2025年の成長率は＋5.0％の着地。先行きは内需停滞のもとで減速を見込む2025年の実質GDP成長率は＋5.0％と政府目標を達成。下期は補助金切れで内需が減速も、外需の下支えが継続2026～27年の中国経済は、不動産不況のもと内需の成長が鈍化。輸出拡大のハードルも高まる中、減速が続く見通し― ポイントは不況が長引く不動産部門。販売ボトムは2027年と予想。逆資産効果による消費下押し圧力が当面残存― 輸出は価格抑制で数量拡大を図る「輸出ドライブ」により堅調。ただし、貿易摩擦が強まる中での輸出拡大には限界も―2026年、2027年の成長率は＋4.1％、＋3.6％と減速を見込む
（出所） 中国国家統計局、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
実質GDP成長率（需要項目別寄与度）
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
中国経済の見通し：2026年・2027年のポイント

26
個人消費
総資本形成
純輸出
概要ポイント•販売の底入れは2027年と予想•その後も回復ペースは緩慢不動産内需 •資産効果が重石に•所得上昇や消費者の嗜好変化により、サービス需要は拡大消費
•関税の逆風でも拡大が継続•一方、「輸出ドライブ」が貿易摩擦を生み、一段の輸出拡大にはハードル外需
•内需停滞を受け、財中心にデフレ圧力が継続•インフレ期待も低下物価
見通し

===== Page 114 =====

2030405060708090100110
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
（2021年＝100）
（年）
新築価格中古価格
開発投資販売金額
着工面積0246810121410 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30 32
（100万件）
（年）
中国：住宅販売は2027年をボトムと予想。ただし、人口減などによる実需縮小で回復は緩慢に不動産市場では、資金調達規制の強化を発端とする不況が6年目に突入。関連指標は4年連続のマイナス2027年頃に販売底入れの公算も、その先の回復ペースは緩慢となる見込み― 足元で実需は下げ止まり。婚姻数の減少により新規居住が減少も、保有物件の老朽化に伴う住み替え需要が下支え― 実需減による価格調整圧力が和らぐにつれ、投資目的の需要も2027年頃には底入れへ― もっとも、人口減・結婚減による実需縮小トレンドが続く中、全体（実需＋投資）の販売回復ペースは緩慢となる見込み―販売→価格→投資の波及ラグを踏まえれば、価格の底入れは2028年以降、建設投資の底入れも2030年頃を待つ必要

（注） 新築価格、中古価格はいずれも主要70都市平均（出所） 中国国家統計局、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
不動産関連指標 住宅販売件数：目的別要因分解と見通し
（注） 西南財経大学（2018）をもとに、住宅販売戸数を購入目的別に要因分解したもの。2019年～2025年は人口動態や婚姻数等により実需を推計した上で、総数と実需の差を投資目的とした。先行きは人口動態等を踏まえた回帰分析による予測値（出所） 中国国家統計局、西南財経大学（2018）「2018年一季度城镇家庭资产指数报告」、国際連合、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成27
投資目的
実需（新規居住・住み替え）
住宅販売件数
見通し実需伸び悩みのもと回復ペースは緩慢に

===== Page 115 =====

▲4▲202468101212 14 16 18 20 22 24 26 28 30
住宅資産効果金融資産効果所得効果その他個人消費
（前年比、％）
（年）
中国：資産効果が消費の重石となるも、所得上昇や嗜好変化でサービス需要は堅調に拡大住宅価格の下落が消費の重石に。先行きは価格の回復を見込むも、消費の押し上げ効果は小幅にとどまる見込み― 足元で住宅資産効果はマイナス。先行きは持ち直すも、緩慢な市況回復により、消費の押し上げは従来より縮小の公算消費は所得上昇や嗜好変化によりサービスにシフト。そうしたもとでサービス消費は拡大が続く見通し― 他国の経験を振り返ると、一人当たりGDPが12,000ドルを超えるとサービス消費の比率が高まる傾向。中国の所得水準もサービス化進展のレンジに到達しており、実際、足元ではサービス消費が財消費より高い伸びで拡大― 高齢化トレンド継続に加え、 感情的充足の重視といった若年層の新しい価値観も、医療、教育、娯楽などに追い風
（注） 可処分所得と家計保有資産などを説明変数とする消費関数を推計し、要因分解したもの。金融資産効果は株式・債券・投資信託等の資産を対象とした（出所） 中国国家統計局、中国国家資産負債表研究中心、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

実質個人消費に対する資産効果所得水準と個人消費のサービス比率
（注） 一人当たりGDPはIMF推計による。個人消費のサービス比率は各国統計より作成（出所）IMF、各国統計、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成28
見通し
緩慢な需要回復のもと消費への資産効果も小幅なプラスにとどまる404550556065705 15 25 35 45 55一人当たりGDP（千ドル）
個人消費のサービス比率（％）
米国
英国
カナダ
←中国の所得水準（2025年）
一人当たりGDPが12,000ドルを過ぎたあたりから消費のサービス化が加速

===== Page 116 =====

▲20
▲15
▲10
▲505101523/01 24/01 25/01
その他玩具・雑貨食品・紙・繊維機械鉄鋼・金属輸送機械電気・電子総額
（前年比、％）
（年/月）02040608010012000 05 10 15 20 25
その他精密機器輸送機械機械類繊維・履物・皮革プラ・ゴム化学金属合計
（件）
（年）
金属や化学、プラ・ゴムなど素材系を中心に中国製品がアンチダンピング措置の対象となる傾向
中国：関税等の逆風下でも輸出は拡大。一方、貿易摩擦により輸出拡大のハードルが高まる価格抑制による「輸出ドライブ」のもと、財輸出は堅調に拡大。中国系企業の海外市場進出も自動車等の輸出拡大に寄与― 米国の関税発動後も、輸出は堅調に拡大。電気・電子関連製品や、輸送機械（乗用車）を中心に輸出が拡大― 自動車輸出には、中国企業による積極的な海外市場の獲得が寄与。近年はASEANや欧州、中東などへの展開が進む一方、中国の輸出ドライブに対する警戒感が世界的に強まる流れも。輸出による成長下支えへのハードルに―WTOの調査によれば、中国を対象とした反ダンピング措置が世界的に増加傾向― 貿易障壁を回避するため、中国企業の海外事業も、中国産品の販売から現地生産へのシフトを迫られる可能性

輸出金額の変化 中国に対する反ダンピング措置の実施状況
29
（注）WTOによる集計値。複数国・地域が措置の対象となっている場合は、対象1カ国・地域につき1件として集計されたもの（出所）WTO“Database of Anti-dumping Measures”より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成（注） 品目別貿易額（HSコード6桁ベース）を、RIETI-TIDに基づき分類したもの。HSコードが改定された品目は、改定内容に鑑み補正した（出所） 中国税関総署、CEIC、RIETIより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 117 =====

インフレ予想
CPI前年比▲101234513 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
（％）
（年）
中国：根強いデフレ圧力で、11四半期連続の「名実逆転」。デフレマインド形成の兆しも中国経済のデフレ圧力は根強く、過剰供給・需要不足がなかなか解消されない状況―12月の中央経済工作会議は「国内の供給が強く、需要が弱いという矛盾が突出」と認識も、矛盾解決の妙手なく―GDP成長率は、名目が実質を下回る「名実逆転」が2025年10～12月期まで11四半期も連続中国人民銀行の預金者アンケートから算出した家計のインフレ予想は2025年4Qに1％を割る水準まで低下― 不動産不況の長期化を起点とする物価低迷が「デフレマインド」の形成に向かいつつあるようにも窺われる
（出所） 中国国家統計局、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
名目・実質GDP成長率 家計のインフレ予想
（注） 中国人民銀行の預金者アンケートに三択型修正CP法を適用（後方4期移動平均）（出所） 中国人民銀行、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成30

名目GDP成長率
実質GDP成長率
01234567891022/3 23/3 24/3 25/3
（前年比、％）
（年/月）
2025年10～12月期まで11四半期連続で「名実逆転」
家計のインフレ予想は1％を割る水準まで低下

===== Page 118 =====

アジア：外需と投資が成長を下支え。供給網再編の受け皿として存在感AI関連需要を追い風に外需は底堅く、供給網再編を背景に投資が成長を支える構図―AI関連需要を背景に、輸出は2026年は前年から減速しつつも堅調を維持し、2027年も底堅く推移する見込み。供給網再編を背景にFDIはサービス分野にも波及し、貿易・投資・域内分業の連動が成長を下支え外需の波に乗れない内需主導国との二極化が進展。政策余地の乏しさが成長の重石― 物価は減速傾向だが、通貨安懸念が金融政策を制約。財政悪化懸念で財政政策も余地が縮小。景気減速が社会不満を増大させ、政情不安を通じて通貨・国債市場が不安に波及し、政策余地をさらに狭める恐れ
（注） 製造業が対象（出所）JETROより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成31
アジア経済を支える外需・投資の連動高付加価値品の生産を拡大する企業の割合
直接投資の流入拡大・質的変化
AI関連の需要拡大供給網の再編
AIサーバ関連輸出の増勢
ASEAN域内の分業体制
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

0102030405060
マレーシア ベトナム タイ インドネシアフィリピン
(％)電子部品関連の輸出が堅調な国では高付加価値品の生産拡大意向が相対的に強い

===== Page 119 =====

アジア：2025年4QのGDPは台湾が大きく加速。AIブーム恩恵の差が各国の成長率に影響2025年10～12月期のアジア（NIEs＋ASEAN）のGDPは回復基調が続く。AI関連需要を受けて台湾が大きく加速― 堅調なAI需要を背景に、台湾、シンガポール、マレーシア、韓国で半導体や電子部品輸出が好調。ベトナムは携帯電話など電子機器輸出が堅調に推移。タイは情報通信機器の輸出や消費喚起策が成長を押し上げ― 内需依存国は、家計消費が底堅く推移し成長を下支え。インドネシアは景気刺激策により消費は回復基調だが、政府への信認低下を背景に財政・金融政策の余地は限定的。フィリピンは汚職問題の長期化で公共投資が低調
（注） ベトナムは内訳を公表していない（出所） 各国・地域統計、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
NIEs＋ASEAN：GDP成長率
輸出依存国・地域
内需依存国
AI関連需要を背景に電子部品輸出が堅調
32

===== Page 120 =====

台湾ASEAN中国米国
その他
02040608010022 23 24 25
(％)
(年)05001,0001,5002,0002,50022 23 24 25
その他アイルランド向けフィンランド向け合計
(年)
(100万米ドル)
アジア：AI関連需要が輸出を押し上げ。増勢鈍化も外需主導は継続ASEAN＋NIEsの輸出はAI関連需要を背景に堅調に推移。米国向けに加えEU向けも伸びを拡大― 米国向けは、台湾からのAIサーバーや携帯電話の輸出、ベトナムからの電機・電子関連の輸出が好調―EU向けも金額規模は小さいが、足元で増勢がみられる。EU域内でのデータセンター（DC）需要・建設の拡大が背景台湾からのEU向けサーバー輸出が足元で急増― EU域内（アイルランド、フィンランド）でのデータセンター投資を背景に、台湾からのサーバー輸出が拡大―加えて、EU側のデリスキングの動きも、調達先分散を通じた押し上げ要因とみられる
33（出所） 各国・地域統計より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ASEAN＋NIEs輸出：仕向け先別EU向けサーバー輸出

（注）HSコード847150を集計。右図はユーロ建てベース。2025年は1～11月平均（出所） 台湾財政部、Eurostatより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
【台湾からの国別輸出】【EU市場の調達比率】米国向けに加えてEU向けも輸出を押し上げ
DC投資を背景に急拡大
EU側の調達先分散を背景に台湾・ASEAN比率が上昇傾向

===== Page 121 =====

製造業
卸小売・物流情報通信
金融・不動産
専門サービスその他
0
20
40
60
80
100
ASEAN
域内日本 中国＋香港
EU
(％)
51015202530ASEAN域内
日本
中国＋香港
EU
千 増加分17～19年平均22～24年平均（10億ドル）
05010015020025017 19 21 23 25
その他（EU等）日本米国シンガポール中国＋香港
（10億ドル）
（年）
アジア：高水準のFDI流入が成長をサポート。製造業に加えサービス分野へ拡大ASEANへのFDI流入は2025年も高水準を維持―2025年1～9月の投資額は前年同期比＋10％弱で推移。ASEAN域内や中国からのほか、EUからの投資も拡大傾向。投資元の多極化が進展ASEANへのFDIは投資元により対象業種に違い。製造業に加えサービス機能も取り込む動きが進む― 日本や中国にとってASEANは主に製造・供給網の拠点として位置づけられる一方、EUからの投資は卸小売・物流、専門サービスなども展開。ASEANは製造拠点に加え商流・業務機能を担う場としての役割も強めつつある

（注）左：ASEAN5は尼・馬・比・泰・越。越は登録ベース、越以外は国際収支統計ベース。「香港」は尼向けを除く。2025年は1～9月累計（越は1～3月期）の前年同期比から推計右：ASEAN10に対するFDIからシンガポールへの資金流入分を除いて算出（出所） 各国・地域統計、ASEANstatsより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ASEAN：海外からの直接投資フローASEAN：直接投資フローの業種別割合（2022～24年平均）
（注） シンガポールへの資金流入分を除く（出所）ASEANstats、シンガポール統計局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
【ASEAN5】 【投資元の構成】
34

===== Page 122 =====

0 5 10 15 20 25
経済・貿易
輸送・ICT・EC
制度・規制
観光・農業
包摂・ガバナンス
対外姿勢
(進捗スコア)
アジア：ASEAN統合は貿易を中心に進展。メリットベースでの連携強化が現実解ASEAN統合はEU型の包括統合には構造的な限界があるものの、貿易を中心に域内連携は着実に進展―ASEANの全会一致による意思決定、経済格差、政治・文化の違いが包括的な統合の壁に― 貿易は、ATIGA（関税自由化や原産地規則、非関税措置など）の発行（2010年）・改定も域内貿易を活性化ASEAN各国の「共通利益」が明確な分野ほど、メリットベースの連携強化が見込まれる― 貿易・物流・デジタル分野では域内横断的な実装・連携が進展。一方、規制緩和やガバナンス、外交面では進捗が停滞
35
（注）ASEAN域内はASEAN10対象。シンガポールは再輸出を除く。EU、CPTPPは2026年2月時点の加盟国を対象に集計（出所）各国統計局、IMF、Eurostatより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

貿易：ASEAN域内、EU域内、CPTPP域内の推移ASEAN統合の柱と進捗度
（注） 「ASEAN Economic Community Blueprint 2025」で設定された重点分野に関し、2013年～25年の議長声明を利用して進捗度をルールベースで生成AIに判定させたもの（出所）ASEAN議長声明、「ASEAN Economic Community Blueprint 2025」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ASEANの域内貿易はEUには劣るものの、着実に進展
共通利益がある分野は域内の連携が進む可能性

===== Page 123 =====

▲1.5
0.0
1.5
3.0
4.5
6.0
25/4 10 25/4 10 25/4 10 25/4 10 25/4 10
ﾀｲ ｲﾝﾄﾞ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ豪州
コア エネルギー飲食料品物価目標CPI総合（前年比、％）
（年/月）
インドネシア
マレーシア
タイ
98100102104106（2025年10月=100）
（年/月）
アジア：インフレは沈静化方向も通貨安懸念が金融緩和の制約に豪州は賃金高を背景にサービス価格が上昇。インフレ再燃を受け豪州準備銀行（RBA）が利上げ実施― サービス価格（娯楽・旅行など）の伸びが拡大。RBAはインフレ沈静化を目的に、2年以上ぶりに利上げ実施豪州以外は、物価面では緩和余地が残る一方、通貨安傾向が続く尼は、利下げペースが緩やかになる見込み― フィリピン、インドネシアは2025年後半の洪水影響で生鮮食品が一時的に値上がり― インドネシアは、財政悪化や中銀の独立性を巡る懸念を背景に市場の警戒感が高まる。通貨安が続く中、2月会合で政策金利を据え置き。通貨安懸念が追加利下げの足かせに

（注） 「コア」は合計から「飲食料品」「エネルギー」（燃料等）を減じて算出。豪は2025年12月、他は26年1月。豪コア指数はTrimmed平均値（出所） 各国統計局、中央銀行より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
インフレ動向 ASEAN政策金利・通貨動向
（注） ピンクシャドーは利上げ。青シャドーは利下げ。2026年Q1は2月25日時点（出所）CEIC、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
天候不順で食品価格が上昇（比・尼）
【政策金利】【通貨動向】
豪コア指数 尼は通貨安懸念から利下げペースが緩やかになる見込み
インフレが高止まり
↓通貨安
36
フィリピンインドネシアタイマレーシア23 Q16.25 5.75 1.75 2.75Q26.25 5.75 2.00 3.00Q36.25 5.75 2.50 3.00Q46.50 6.00 2.50 3.0024 Q16.50 6.00 2.50 3.00Q26.50 6.25 2.50 3.00Q36.25 6.00 2.50 3.00Q45.75 6.00 2.25 3.0025 Q15.75 5.75 2.00 3.00Q25.25 5.50 1.75 3.00Q35.00 4.75 1.50 2.75Q44.50 4.75 1.25 2.7526 Q14.25 4.75 1.00 2.75

===== Page 124 =====

（４）日本：2026年度は内需の拡大に加え、経済対策効果が現れ＋1％程度の成長に
37
2026年度の実質GDP成長率は＋1.0％と予測。内需の回復に加え、総合経済対策が成長率を押し上げ― 実質賃金の改善を背景に個人消費が拡大を続けるほか、政府の「危機管理投資・成長投資」等を受け設備投資が加速。一方、日中対立によるレアアースの供給制約やインバウンド需要の減少が外需の押し下げ要因に2027年度は、同＋1.4％と予測。消費税減税が個人消費を押し上げるほか、輸出の持ち直しが押し上げ―消費税減税は27年初から2年間実施されると想定。27年1～3月期の消費は前期買い控えの反動増が現れる見込み。日中関係は27年度にかけて徐々に改善に向かい、生産活動やインバウンド需要の回復が成長率を押し上げ
（注） 網掛けは予測値（出所） 内閣府「四半期別GDP速報」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
日本経済見通し総括表2024 2025 2026 2027 2025 2026 2027 2028年度 年度 年度 年度 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3実質GDP 0.5 0.7 1.0 1.4 0.3 0.5 ▲0.7 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.5 0.0 1.5 ▲0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 － － － － 1.0 2.1 ▲2.6 0.2 0.9 0.8 1.9 0.2 6.1 ▲0.5 0.7 0.6 0.7 内需 0.8 0.9 1.1 1.4 0.9 0.4 ▲0.4 0.0 0.3 0.2 0.5 0.0 1.5 ▲0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 民需 0.5 1.2 1.2 1.5 1.2 0.4 ▲0.4 0.1 0.3 0.2 0.5 ▲0.1 1.8 ▲0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 個人消費0.2 1.3 0.9 1.1 0.7 0.2 0.4 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 ▲0.6 2.4 ▲0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 住宅投資▲0.7 ▲3.2 2.4 ▲0.0 ▲0.2 0.0 ▲8.4 4.8 2.3 0.5 0.2 0.0 0.0 ▲0.0 ▲0.0 ▲0.0 ▲0.1 設備投資0.8 1.6 2.7 2.5 0.2 1.3 ▲0.3 0.2 0.6 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.6 0.6 0.4 0.5 在庫投資(0.1) (0.1) (▲0.1) (0.1) (0.5) (0.0) (▲0.1) (▲0.2) (▲0.1) (▲0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0)公需 2.0 0.0 0.9 0.9 ▲0.2 0.3 ▲0.1 ▲0.2 0.1 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 政府消費2.3 0.5 0.8 0.8 ▲0.3 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 公共投資0.1 ▲1.8 1.6 1.4 ▲0.2 0.0 ▲1.5 ▲1.3 ▲0.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 外需 (▲0.4) (▲0.2) (▲0.2) (0.0) (▲0.6) (0.1) (▲0.3) (0.0) (▲0.1) (▲0.1) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (▲0.0) (▲0.0) (▲0.0)輸出 1.6 2.0 1.5 3.3 ▲0.2 1.9 ▲1.4 ▲0.3 0.2 0.5 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 輸入 3.2 2.9 2.1 3.2 2.5 1.4 ▲0.1 ▲0.3 0.5 0.7 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 名目GDP 3.7 4.1 3.3 3.1 0.9 2.1 ▲0.0 0.6 0.8 1.1 1.0 0.5 1.3 0.6 0.8 0.6 0.8 GDPデフレーター3.2 3.3 2.3 1.7 3.6 3.2 3.5 3.4 3.2 2.7 2.5 2.4 1.6 1.3 1.5 1.5 2.4

前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比寄与度、％Pt
前期比、％ 前期比年率、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％
前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前年比、％
前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比寄与度、％Pt 前期比、％

===== Page 125 =====

2024 2025 2026 2027 2025 2026 2027 2028年度 年度 年度 年度 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3前期比、％▲1.4 0.9 1.6 1.7 ▲0.3 0.4 0.1 0.8 0.3 0.2 0.6 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 前年比、％7.2 3.9 6.7 7.7 3.8 0.2 19.7 ▲2.9 2.5 5.3 3.1 9.7 8.8 7.8 7.4 7.5 8.0 前年比、％4.1 3.4 3.0 3.5 3.9 4.0 3.4 3.5 2.6 2.8 3.0 2.9 3.1 3.4 3.5 3.5 3.5 ％2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.6 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 年率換算、万戸81.6 71.4 78.1 77.6 88.8 60.1 71.7 76.4 77.5 77.8 77.9 77.9 77.8 77.7 77.5 77.3 77.1 年率換算、兆円29.5 32.7 34.7 34.9 30.0 28.7 33.3 33.2 33.6 33.2 34.2 34.6 34.9 34.7 34.4 34.1 34.4 前年比、％3.3 2.7 1.2 0.9 4.2 3.3 2.6 2.6 2.0 1.7 1.8 1.2 ▲0.0 0.3 0.6 0.6 2.1 前年比、％2.7 2.8 1.7 1.2 3.1 3.5 2.9 2.8 2.1 1.8 2.0 2.0 1.0 0.7 0.9 0.9 2.2 前年比、％2.2 2.7 2.1 1.8 2.8 2.9 2.9 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.2 2.2 1.9 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.9 前年比、％2.3 3.1 1.9 1.3 2.7 3.2 3.2 3.0 2.9 2.4 2.1 2.1 0.8 0.9 1.1 1.1 2.2 前年比、％2.3 3.1 2.4 2.1 2.7 3.4 3.4 3.1 3.2 2.6 2.3 2.3 2.3 2.2 2.2 2.1 1.9

完全失業率
鉱工業生産経常利益名目雇用者報酬
新設住宅着工戸数経常収支国内企業物価生鮮食品を除く消費者物価　同（除く制度要因）生鮮食品・エネルギーを除く消費者物価　同（除く制度要因）
日本：インフレ率は2026年度前半に一旦鈍化するも、年度後半に再び2％へ向け上昇する見込み
38
人手不足の深刻化や企業業績の底堅さを背景に、2026年度も高水準の賃上げが継続する公算大― 春季賃上げ率は2025年の5.5％（厚生労働省・主要企業ベース）に近い水準を維持すると予想コアCPI（生鮮食品を除く総合）は、2026年度前半に前年比＋1％台後半へ鈍化。年度後半には再び同＋2％へ向け上昇へ―2027年には消費税減税の影響で物価が一段と下振れるも、制度要因を除くベースでは概ね同＋2％前後を維持と予想―2026年半ば以降に物価が＋2％に向け再上昇するほか、米国経済の回復期待から円安が進みやすい環境になり、日銀は政策金利を2026年6月に1％へ、2027年1～3月期に1.25％へ引上げる見込み
（注）1. 網掛けは予測値。変化率は、水準のデータからみずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズが計算した値であり、公表値と一致しないことがある2. 経常利益は法人企業統計調査の全規模・全産業（除く金融・保険）ベース3. 消費者物価の「除く制度要因」は、政府による電気・ガス代補助、ガソリン補助・暫定税率廃止、高校授業料無償化、消費税減税の影響を除いて計算（出所） 各種統計より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

日本経済見通し総括表（主要経済指標）

===== Page 126 =====

日本：「経済安全保障」と「金利のある世界」への積極対応を通じ、潜在成長率が緩やかに加速
39
経済安全保障リスクの高まりや「金利のある世界」の進展に伴う企業・家計・政府の行動変容が、日本経済の成長力を左右― 経済安全保障リスクの高まりに応じ、高市政権が積極的な産業政策を実施へ。企業の国内設備投資を促す要因に― また、賃金・物価の上昇継続とともに「金利のある世界」が進展。企業の生産性向上を促すほか、家計の金融資産選択行動の変化につながる見込み― 企業の投資増や生産性向上が潜在成長率や中立金利の水準に影響。政策金利の終着点を見極めるうえでも重要
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
日本経済を取り巻く環境変化と、各経済主体への影響日本経済をとりまく環境の変化
家計 実質賃金・個人消費の底上げ
金融資産の選択
政府 金利・為替リスクを意識した財政運営方針
積極的な産業政策の実施
世界的な自国優先主義
国内のAI開発・実装
経済安全保障 中国との競争激化
政策金利・長期金利の上昇
金利のある世界

2％の物価上昇率定着
人手不足・高い賃上げ率
潜在成長率が緩やかに加速
中立金利は1.5～2.0％程度に
求められる対応
企業
輸出先市場の選択
生産性の向上
国内設備投資
AIの実装
見込まれる成果

===== Page 127 =====

日本：衆院選で自民党が大勝。「強い経済」実現へ問われる覚悟と実行力自民党が大幅躍進。単独で衆議院定数の2/3（310議席）を超える議席を獲得。安定的かつ大胆な政権運営が可能に― 高市総理は衆院選後の会見で、責任ある積極財政を推進し、国が一歩前に出る形で大胆に国内投資を推進する方針を説明。分配の議論が成立するのは、経済が持続的に成長してこそとの立場を改めて強調― 目玉の危機管理投資・成長投資は、既に補正予算で17の戦略分野に対する出資・補助等1.7兆円を計上。加えて、全産業を対象とする年間4,000億円規模の設備投資促進減税（即時償却・税額控除7％）を実施する方針― 今後は補正予算を前提にせず必要額を当初予算で措置する方針。2027年度概算要求前に公表される骨太方針に注目
改選前と選挙後の政党別議席数
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成40
【参考】参議院議席増減選挙後議席数改選前議席数 101＋119316197自民 19▲23638維新 15＋12153参政 25±02828国民民主 88▲12970199その他 248465465合計

(124)(233)(233)過半数
自民党が圧勝。維新と合わせて352議席を獲得参政・国民と組むことで参議院でも過半数を模索
政府の国内投資支援策
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
民間企業等
国内投資の加速を通じた「強い経済」の実現
17の戦略分野•防災・国土強靱化•創薬・先端医療•フュージョンエネルギー•マテリアル•港湾ロジスティクス•防衛産業•情報通信•海洋
• AI・半導体•造船•量子•合成生物学・バイオ•航空・宇宙•デジタル・サイバーセキュリティ•コンテンツ•フードテック•資源・エネルギー安全保障・GX
出資・補助（基金）等設備投資促進減税

===== Page 128 =====

▲101230.51.01.52.02.508 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
実効金利10年金利（右目盛）
（％）
（年度）
（％）
日本：高市政権の投資支援策が設備投資を押し上げ。金利上昇の下押し効果を上回る
41
高市政権下で実施されると見込まれる一連の設備投資支援策は実質設備投資を＋1％程度押し上げると試算―17の戦略分野対象の出資・補助（基金）等は＋0.35％Pt程度、設備投資促進税制は＋0.65％Pt程度寄与― 今後、政府は成長投資予算を多年度・別枠で管理する方針。政策継続の予見可能性向上に寄与すると評価一方、金利上昇による実質設備投資の下押し効果は▲0.3～▲0.5％Pt程度となる見込み― 金利上昇が企業の利払い負担増加やハードル・レートの上昇を通じて設備投資の抑制要因に― もっとも、企業は投資の6割弱を自己資金で実施しており（金融機関借入は3割弱）、金利上昇下でも投資余力は確保
（注） 出資・補助（基金）等の効果は、内閣府マクロモデルの乗数を用いて試算。設備投資促進税制の効果は、税額控除率を平均6％とし、対象になる投資額の10％程度が新規需要であるとして試算。（出所） 内閣府HP、各種報道より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

設備投資支援策の効果
企業の負債実効金利が先行き上昇実質設備投資を▲0.3～▲0.5％Pt程度押し下げる要因に
企業負債の実効金利と長期金利
（注） 実効金利＝支払利息等÷有利子負債残高（短期・長期借入金＋社債）、全規模・全産業ベース。10年金利は日本の10年国債利回り、2025・26年度は予測値（出所） 財務省「法人企業統計」、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
設備投資促進税制出資・補助（基金）等（17の戦略分野）
年間0.4兆円程度（26年度税制改正大綱）年間1兆円程度（25年度補正予算等）規模
5年間少なくとも3年程度と想定期間
＋0.65％Pt程度＋0.35％Pt程度効果 （実質設備投資に対する効果）

===== Page 129 =====

（年度）
2.0 2.0 1.0 1.0 ▲0.3▲0.51.62.72.5▲1012342025 2026 2027
（前年度比、％）
投資支援策のプラス効果自然体の伸び
金利上昇のマイナス効果
合計
日本：2026・2027年度の設備投資は4年ぶりの高い伸びに。設備資金の新規貸出も底堅く推移
42
（注） 投資支援策のプラス効果は総合経済対策と設備投資促進税制を考慮（出所）内閣府「四半期別GDP速報」、財務省「法人企業統計調査」、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
実質設備投資の見通し
金利上昇による投資抑制効果を上回る財政政策効果が発現
設備資金の新規貸出額
（注） 国内銀行による銀行勘定・信託勘定・海外店勘定合算の設備資金新規貸出額（出所） 日本銀行「貸出先別貸出金」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2026・2027年度の実質設備投資は前年比＋2.7％・同＋2.5％と堅調推移を予想― アベノミクス期以降（2013～2024年度）の前年比平均（2.1％）を上回る伸び― 更新投資や省力化・DX投資等による自然体の伸び（2％程度）に加え、金利上昇のマイナス効果を上回る投資支援策のプラス効果が発現資金面では、金融政策の正常化が始まった2024年以降も設備資金の新規貸出額が増加傾向を維持― 今後は金利上昇に伴って貸出額の増勢鈍化が予想されるものの、堅調な投資需要を背景に腰折れは回避へ

設備資金の新規貸出額は足元でも増加傾向を維持
実績見込
▲15▲10▲50510152018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
（前年比、％）

===== Page 130 =====

051015202530012345678916 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
倒産件数（左目盛）休廃業・解散件数（左目盛）
（万件）
（年）
過剰債務企業数（右目盛）
（万件）
0204060801005% 4% 3% 2%
（企業数シェア、％）
（2026年度の売上高成長率）
増益
減益
赤字
日本：企業が問われる賃上げ・金利上昇への耐久力。生産性や付加価値の向上が鍵
43
賃上げや金利上昇に対応できるかどうかで、企業の二極化が進展する可能性― 企業の倒産・廃業は2023年から増加に転じ、24～25年にかけて高い水準が継続。対照的に、過剰債務企業数はコロナ禍の22年をピークに減少26年度の賃金・金利の予測値を前提にすると、売上高成長率が3％のケースでは減益となる企業が急増―26年度は長期金利の上昇幅が大きくなるとみられ、支払利息の増加が経常利益の圧迫要因に― 売上高成長率が4～5％のケースでも2割前後が減益に。コスト上昇のなか、生産性や付加価値の向上が求められる

（注） 過剰債務件数は、3年連続でインタレスト・カバレッジ・レシオが1未満、かつ設立10年以上の企業数（出所） 帝国データバンクより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
企業倒産・廃業件数と過剰債務企業数売上高成長率ケース別の経常利益シミュレーション
（注） 変動費変化率＝売上高変化率－0.15％Pt、賃金変化率：＋2.9％、長期金利2.5％と想定して試算。シェアの計算には規模別・産業別の企業数を使用なお、2023年度、2024年度の売上高の伸びはそれぞれ4.2％、3.3％（出所） 財務省「法人企業統計調査」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
売上高成長率が3％に低下すると減益企業が急増倒産・廃業増加の一方、過剰債務企業数は減少

===== Page 131 =====

▲0.6▲0.4▲0.20.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.417 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
（前期比年率、％）
（年）
潜在GDP
労働投入
TFP
資本投入見通し
日本：国内投資の促進と生産性の向上が潜在成長率を押し上げ
44
政策効果と環境変化を受けて、2020年代後半に潜在成長率が加速すると予測― 経済安全保障リスクの高まりを背景にグローバル・サプライチェーンの見直しが迫られるなか、政府の「危機管理投資・成長投資」や設備投資促進税制が民間企業による国内投資の呼び水になり、資本投入の寄与が拡大―賃上げや金利上昇への適応に向けた企業努力やAIの社会実装進展に伴う効率化・高付加価値化が全要素生産性（TFP）の押し上げを通じて潜在成長率の加速に寄与―足元の潜在成長率は＋0.6％程度。今後、2020年代後半に＋0.9％程度へ向けて緩やかに加速する見通し
（出所） みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
潜在GDP成長率に影響する要因 国内投資やAI実装が潜在成長率を押し上げ潜在GDP成長率の見通し

（注） 実績・見通しともにみずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズの推計値（出所） 内閣府「国民経済計算」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
•経済安保リスクを受けた国内回帰（〇）•政府の「危機管理投資・成長投資」や設備投資促進税制による民間設備投資の増加（〇）
•賃上げや金利上昇への適応に向けた企業努力（○）• AIの利活用進展に伴う経済全体の効率化・高付加価値化（〇）
•女性・高齢者中心に労働参加が強まるが、人口縮小により就業者数が徐々に減少（▲）•労働時間の減少ペースがやや緩まるも、減少トレンドは変わらず（▲）
資本投入
全要素生産性（TFP）
労働投入

===== Page 132 =====

一般サービス価格
所定内給与
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.04.523 24 25 26 27 28（年）
（前年比、％）
サービス その他財
食品
コメ
エネルギー制度要因消費税減税要因
コアCPIコアCPI（消費減税除く）
▲2
▲10123424 25 26 27 28
（前年比、％）
（年）
日本：コアインフレ率は物価高対策と消費税減税で下振れ。基調的物価は徐々に2％で安定化へ
45
コアインフレ率は、2026年前半の物価高対策と2027年の消費税減税でそれぞれ下振れ―26年前半は食品価格の減速に加え、エネルギー補助金効果で前年比＋1％台に。年後半は再び同＋2％前後へ加速― 消費税減税は、27年初めから与党案どおり飲食料品の軽減税率引下げが実施されると想定。実施後1年間にわたりコアインフレ率を1％弱に低下させるインパクトがあると試算消費税減税の影響を除くと、コアインフレ率は2％前後で安定化に向かう見通し― 持続的な賃上げに伴い、人件費比率の高いサービス物価が2％程度の上昇ペースを維持

（注） 食品は生鮮、コメ、外食除く。制度要因は電気・ガス代補助、ガソリン補助・暫定税率廃止、高校授業料無償化。消費税減税は27年1月から2年間実施すると仮定（出所） 総務省「消費者物価指数」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
コアインフレ率見通し 所定内給与とサービス価格
（注） 所定内給与は共通事業所ベース（出所） 総務省「消費者物価指数」、 厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
見通し 見通し

===== Page 133 =====

物価要因
名目賃金要因
実質賃金
▲4▲3▲2▲10123417 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
（前年比、％）
（年度）
連合集計（全規模ベース）
厚生労働省集計（主要企業ベース）
連合集計（中小企業ベース）
0123456714 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
（％）
（年）
日本：人手不足深刻化で賃上げは高水準継続。生産性改善への期待も賃上げ機運の追い風に
46
人手不足を背景に2026年の春季賃上げ率は25年並みの高い水準で妥結する見込み―24年以降、春季賃上げ率は3年連続で5％台（定期昇給含む）に。消費者物価が2％前後で推移するなかで賃上げノルムが定着。生産性改善期待も相まって27年の賃上げ率はやや加速26年度の実質賃金はインフレ減速に伴い前年比プラス転化。27年度は消費税減税が実質賃金の伸びを押し上げ―27年度は飲食料品の消費税減税によるインフレ率の縮小が実質賃金の伸びをサポート。実質賃金は一時的に1％台半ばの高い伸びとなり、消費の回復を後押し

（出所） 日本労働組合総連合会「春季生活闘争」、厚生労働省「民間主要企業春季賃上げ要求・妥結状況について」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
春季賃上げ率の見通し実質賃金の見通し
（注） 名目賃金は一人当たりの現金給与総額（共通事業所ベース）、物価要因はCPI総合ベース（出所） 厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」、総務省「消費者物価指数」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
見通し見通し
賃上げ率は高水準を維持生産性改善期待も追い風に
27年度は消費税減税が実質賃金を押し上げ⇒消費の回復を後押し

===== Page 134 =====

1.50.40.20.00.20.40.60.81.01.21.41.6
実質可処分所得 実質個人消費 実質GDP
（％Pt）
日本：実質賃金の増加を受け、消費は緩やかな拡大基調を維持。消費税減税も押し上げ要因に
47
個人消費は、実質賃金の改善に沿った緩やかな拡大基調を維持へ― 足元では、インフレ鈍化に伴う消費マインドの改善や、株高が消費を下支え。今後は、株価上昇・マインド改善のペースが鈍化する一方、実質賃金の改善に支えられて個人消費は持ち直し基調を維持する見通し2027年以降は、消費税減税策が個人消費を0.4％程度押し上げる見込み（GDP押し上げ効果：0.2％程度）―2027年初から2年間、飲食料品の消費税率を8％から0％へ引下げると想定。減税実施前後に買い控えと反動増が発生― ただし、人件費等の負担増に直面する企業が、減税を機に税抜価格を引上げれば、政策効果が縮小する可能性
（出所） 内閣府「四半期別GDP速報」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
実質個人消費の見通し消費税減税の影響

（注） 飲食料品の消費税率を現行の8％から0％に引下げた場合の機械的な試算（出所） 総務省「消費者物価指数」、内閣府「四半期別GDP速報」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
30030531031532025 26 27 28
（兆円）
（年）
見通し
予測値消費税減税が無い場合の仮想値
減税実施前に保存食品等の買い控えが発生
買い控えの反動と実質所得の押し上げで急増

===== Page 135 =====

02004006008001,0001,20024 25 2612月見通し2月見通し
（万人、年率換算値）
（年度）
日本：日中関係悪化の影響が外需の逆風に。2026年度GDPを▲0.2％下押し
48
日中関係悪化の影響は2026年半ばにかけて顕在化すると予想。12月見通し対比で26年度のGDPを▲0.2％下押し―中国からのレアアース輸入は2026年1～6月に半減と想定（GDP▲0.1％程度の下方修正要因）。当初3カ月程度は国内備蓄活用により生産活動は維持可能とみられるが、4～6月期には自動車や機械を中心に減産圧力が発現へ― インバウンドは、日本向け航空便の大幅減少を受け、2026年度の中国人訪日客を約670万人（前年比▲50％程度）と予測。インバウンド消費額の減少を通じ、GDPを追加的に▲0.1％程度下押しすると見込む年後半以降は11月のAPEC（中国・深圳）を見据え国家間の対話が再開し、徐々に日中関係が改善方向に向かうと想定
（注） 政府・民間合わせたレアアース備蓄を3カ月分、レアアース輸入停止期間における中国からの同輸入数量をゼロと想定。2010年のレアアース輸入停止時の生産への影響、およびレアアースの対中輸入依存度（2010年、2025年）をもとに試算（出所） 内閣府、経済産業省、総務省、財務省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

中国のレアアース輸出規制による日本のGDPへの影響中国人訪日客の見通し
（出所）JNTO「訪日外客数」、観光庁「インバウンド消費動向調査」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
見通しGDPの下押し効果レアアース輸入制限の期間（試算想定）シナリオ
▲0.12％6カ月輸入半減メイン
僅少（備蓄で対応）3カ月輸入停止①リスク ▲0.25％6カ月輸入停止②
▲0.88％1年輸入停止③
12月見通し：26年3月にかけ前年比▲20％、その後緩やかに回復
2月見通し：26年6月にかけ前年比▲50％、その後緩やかに回復2026年度（12月見通し比）中国訪日客 ：▲305万人中国人消費額：▲7,346億円

===== Page 136 =====

▲15▲10▲505101520252001～20082011～20192022～20242001～20082011～20192022～20242001～20082011～20192022～2024
世界向け輸出 中国向け輸出ASEAN5向け輸出
現地物価との相対価格
日本の輸出シェア
現地の輸入依存度
現地の実質GDP
日本の実質輸出
（前年比平均、％）
日本：対中輸出伸び悩みの要因は、日本の輸出シェア低下、中国の内製化、デフレ圧力
49
日本の実質財輸出は2010年代以降伸び悩み。とりわけ、中国向け輸出は2020年代に入り大幅マイナスに― 要因別に見ると、日本の輸出シェア低下が主因。特に2020年代の中国・ASEAN5でシェア低下が著しく、両地域間の経済関係深化で日本企業の競争環境が悪化している可能性。中国からASEAN5への輸出ドライブも影響している模様中国向け輸出の弱さには、中国の景気減速に加え、内製化やデフレ圧力も影響― 中国では2010年代以降に貿易依存度が低下しており、内製化が急速に進展。また、日本の財輸出物価に比べ現地の物価が相対的に低下しており、中国国内のデフレ圧力により日本製品の価格競争力が悪化していることを示唆

（注） 現地の貿易依存度＝現地の財輸入額÷現地の名目GDP。日本の輸出シェア＝日本の財輸出額÷現地の財輸入額。現地物価との相対価格＝現地のGDPデフレータ―×為替レート÷日本の財輸出デフレーター。リーマンショックやコロナショックなど、数値の振れが激しい一部期間を除く。各要因の合計と実質財輸出は、計算過程で発生する交差項により必ずしも一致しない。中国の2020年の名目輸入額は名目輸出額から概算（出所）IMF、内閣府より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
景気減速や日本の輸出シェア低下に加え、内製化・デフレも下押し要因に
日本の実質財輸出の要因分解
中国の輸出攻勢が日本のシェアを奪った可能性

===== Page 137 =====

金融市場：日銀は26年度内に2回の追加利上げを予想。為替は1ドル150円台の円安水準が継続
50
日銀は2026年6月、2027年1～3月期に追加利上げを予想。長期金利も2026年度末に2.6％まで上昇する見通しFRBはインフレ鈍化を背景に2026年中盤・後半に1回ずつ（計2回）の利下げを予想。米長期金利は4％程度の水準で推移ドル円は150円台の円安水準が継続する見通し。実質金利の低さが意識されるなか、金利差縮小による円高圧力は限定的日本株は成長投資への期待などが押し上げる形で着実な上昇を見込む。米国株も堅調な経済のもと底堅く推移する予想
（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
金融市場見通し総括表2024 2025 2026 2027年度 年度 年度 年度 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3日本無担保ｺｰﾙﾚｰﾄO/N物 （末値、％） 0.50 0.75 1.25 1.50 0.50 0.50 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.25 1.25 1.50 1.50 1.50新発国債 （10年、％） 1.051.10～2.372.21～2.792.68～3.121.40 1.56 1.80 2.14～2.37 2.21～2.44 2.27～2.55 2.37～2.65 2.51～2.79 2.68～2.93 2.80～3.05 2.84～3.09 2.87～3.12日経平均株価 (円） 38,56637,000～61,40049,700～65,00052,900～68,00036,741 42,213 49,58348,600～61,40049,700～62,50050,500～63,30051,400～64,20052,200～65,00052,900～65,70053,700～66,50054,500～67,30055,200～68,000米国ＦＦレート（下限） （末値、％） 4.25 3.50 3.00 3.00 4.25 4.00 3.50 3.50 3.25 3.25 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00 3.00新発国債 （10年、％） 4.284.05～4.403.65～4.503.75～4.50 4.36 4.26 4.09 3.85～4.20 3.75～4.50 3.65～4.50 3.75～4.50 3.75～4.50 3.75～4.50 3.75～4.50 3.75～4.50 3.75～4.50ダウ平均株価 (ドル） 41,48341,000～54,20044,800～56,20046,900～58,30041,454 45,053 47,30944,400～54,20044,800～54,60045,300～55,10045,800～55,60046,400～56,20046,900～56,70047,400～57,20047,900～57,70048,500～58,300ユーロ圏ECB預金ﾌｧｼﾘﾃｨ金利 （末値、％） 2.50 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00ドイツ国債 （10年、％） 2.402.45～3.152.40～3.152.45～3.15 2.60 2.71 2.79 2.45～3.15 2.45～3.15 2.40～3.10 2.45～3.15 2.45～3.15 2.45～3.15 2.45～3.15 2.45～3.15 2.45～3.15為替ドル・円 (円/ドル） 152 139～160 148～160 142～160 144 147 154  150～160  148～160  148～160  150～160  148～160  145～160  144～160  143～160  142～160ユーロ・ドル (ドル/ユーロ） 1.071.05～1.221.16～1.231.17～1.23 1.13 1.17 1.16 1.15～1.21 1.14～1.24 1.14～1.24 1.15～1.25 1.15～1.25 1.15～1.25 1.15～1.25 1.15～1.25 1.15～1.25

2025 2026 2027 2028

===== Page 138 =====

▲0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28 29
基調物価指標（合成予想物価上昇率）政策金利（％）
（年度）
日本：日銀は2027年度半ばにかけ1.5％まで利上げ。先行きの中立金利は1.5～2.0％
51
日銀は概ね半年に1回の利上げペースを維持し、27年度半ばにかけて政策金利を少なくとも1.5％まで引上げ―26年度内は、26年6月、27年1～3月期にそれぞれ＋0.25％Ptの利上げを実施する見通し―中立金利（自然利子率＋長期インフレ率）のレンジは1.5～2.0％。潜在成長率がやや加速するなか、貯蓄超過であることを踏まえ、自然利子率は▲0.5～0.0％の小幅マイナスと想定（日銀の自然利子率の推定値レンジは▲1.0～0.5％）27年度後半以降は、経済・物価動向の様子を見つつ追加で最大2回（1.5％⇒2.0％）の利上げ実施へ―基調的な物価上昇率は、27年度半ばに2％程度に達すると予想国内資金過不足 基調的物価と政策金利の想定パス

見通し
（注） 合成予想物価上昇率は10年先。24年Q1まで長田・中澤（2024）による推計値、24年Q2～25年Q3の値は野口審議委員資料（2025年11月）より逆算。26年Q1～27年Q4は、CPI上昇率を含めた時変係数VARモデルによる機械的試算。需給ギャップを外生変数としてコントロール（出所） 日本銀行、長田・中澤（2024）、Bloomberg、QUICK月次調査＜債券＞、Consensus Economics「コンセンサス・フォーキャスト」、内閣府、総務省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
1.5％まで利上げ後は経済・物価の反応を確認しつつ、最大2回の追加利上げ
基調的な物価上昇率は27年度半ばに2％程度へ
（注） 統合資本勘定ベース。2026～27年度の設備投資は予測値（出所） 内閣府「2024年度（令和6年度）国民経済計算年次推計」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
国内資金余剰設備投資の24年度対比増加分
0.00.51.01.52.02.53.03.54.04.55.0

2023年度 2024年度2026～27年度
（GDP比、％）
今後は投資が拡大も引き続き国内は貯蓄超過（資金余剰）

===== Page 139 =====

政策金利要因
米金利要因財政要因
日銀保有要因
その他
現政権発足後の追加プレミアム
▲ 1.0▲ 0.50.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
長期金利
（％）
（年）
日本：規律ある財政のもとで長期金利は上昇ペース鈍化。ドル円は1ドル＝150円台が継続
52
財政懸念は当面くすぶるが2026年度前半には一服の公算。長期金利は2026年度末に2.6％、2027年度末に2.9％と予想― 財政懸念による長期金利押し上げ幅は足元0.5％Pt程度と推計。市場が政府による積極財政を織り込む動きは当面続くも、金利高を受けて政府は徐々に財政規律を意識した運営にシフトし、財政に対する過度な懸念は後退― 日銀による金融政策正常化の動きが継続的な金利押し上げ要因となり、上昇基調そのものは変わらず。 長期金利は緩やかな上昇ペースに回帰との見立てドル円は150円台の円安水準が継続。実質金利の低さが意識されるなかで、金利差縮小による円高圧力は限定的

（注） 各要因の寄与度は、2016 年以降の金利水準変化に対する累積寄与度。四半期ベースの期中平均値（2026年1～3月期は1月実績値で延伸）で図示、政策金利要因はNakajima（2025）による推計値。財政要因は国の債務残高GDP比（出所）LSEG、日本銀行、財務省、Nakajima（2025）、一上・上野（2013）より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
長期金利の要因分解
行き過ぎた財政懸念は今後縮小へ
ドル円の予測値
（注） 予測値は破線部、日米金利差＝米10年国債利回り－日本10年国債利回り（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
見通し
0123414014515015516024 25 26 27
ドル円日米金利差（右目盛）
（円/ドル） （％）
（年）

===== Page 140 =====

0123424 25 26 27
（％）
（年）14014515015516016517024 25 26 27
（円/ドル）
（年）
見通し
日本：財政懸念が拡大すれば1ドル＝170円まで円安進展。長期金利は4％まで上昇のリスク
53
高市政権が金融市場の反応を意識し、財政運営を健全化するとの想定がメインシナリオ― 消費税減税は時限措置にとどめ、国債増発も回避（税収上振れや補助金・租税特別措置の見直し等で財源を確保）。今後は、コロナ禍で急拡大した補正予算規模を縮小させるほか、2027年度当初予算も全体としてメリハリの効いたものに一方、財源が不透明なまま財政拡張を続ければ日本国債の格下げリスクが浮上。円急落・金利高騰につながる恐れ― その場合のドル円は1ドル＝170円程度まで円安が加速。円安対応で日銀が2％程度までの急速な利上げを迫られるほか、タームプレミアムの拡大により長期金利が4％程度まで急上昇する「悪い金利高」の可能性
（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
シナリオ別の長期金利見通しシナリオ別のドル円見通し

（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
【リスクシナリオ】財政懸念が高まれば、170円程度まで円安加速も視野
【メインシナリオ】財政懸念は徐々にはく落、150円台を中心に推移
【リスクシナリオ】財政懸念でタームプレミアム拡大。円安対応で日銀は2％程度までの急速な利上げを迫られ、長期金利が4％程度まで上昇
【メインシナリオ】財政懸念がはく落、日銀の利上げに沿って3％程度まで緩やかに上昇
見通し

===== Page 141 =====

5月  パウエルFRB議長任期満了7月  USMCA見直し11月  中間選挙2月  冬季オリンピック（イタリア） 4月  フランス大統領選挙3月  フランス地方選挙 8月  スペイン議会選挙4月  ハンガリー議会選挙 10月  ラガルドECB総裁任期満了年内  ドイツ地方選挙 12月  イタリア総選挙2月  衆議院議員総選挙 3～9月  国際園芸博覧会2027横浜春  統一地方選挙
2月  タイ総選挙 3月  中国全国人民代表大会3月  中国全国人民代表大会 秋  中国共産党第21回全国代表大会（党大会）3月  ベトナム総選挙6月  韓国地方選挙11月  台湾統一地方選  　年内  中国共産党5中全会
11月  G20サミット（米国） 未定  G20サミット（英国）11月  COP31（トルコ） 11月  COP32（エチオピア）11月  APEC首脳会議（中国）12月  グテーレス国連事務総長任期満了
その他
2026年 2027年
米国
欧州
日本
アジア
（参考）主要国の政治日程
（出所） 各種報道より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成54

===== Page 142 =====

===== Page 143 =====

1

門間 一夫の

失われた「20 年」 「30 年」 「40 年」 
～深まるＫ字型への懸念～ 
みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ エグゼクティブエコノミスト  門間一夫 2026年2月25日

デフレに着目すれば「失われた 30 年」は終焉 
「失われた 30 年」とよく言われるが明確な定義はない。90 年代の前半にバブルが崩壊し、日本経済
は低成長の時代に入った。バブル崩壊から約 10 年を経たころに「失われた 10 年」と言われるようにな
った。バブル崩壊の影響が薄れてからも低成長は続き、 「失われた 20 年」 「失われた 30 年」などの言葉
が生まれた。物価も緩やかに下落し続け「デフレ」という言葉も定着した。経済政策では「デフレ脱却」
が合言葉となり、 「デフレ」と「失われた〇十年」は類義語のように使われてきた。 
もともとデフレは「物価の継続的な下落」のことであり、その定義に立ち返ればデフレはとっくに終
わっている。消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）は 2022年 4 月以降、4 年近くにわたり 2％以上の上昇率とな
っている。デフレとは正反対の「物価の継続的な上昇」である。ダメを押すかのように賃金も上がり続
けている。春闘の賃上げ率（定期昇給込み、連合ベース）は、2024 年度＋5.1％、2025 年度＋5.3％とな
り、2026 年度も同程度の結果が見込まれている。これほど賃金が上がり続けるのは 30 年以上なかった
ことである。 
物価と賃金の相互作用が働き始め、双方ともに上昇の持続性が増したとの認識に基づき、日銀は徐々
に金利を引き上げている。2025 年 12 月には政策金利が 0.75％まで引き上げられ、30 年ぶりの金利水準
となった。このように、物価、賃金、金利のすべてにおいて過去 30 年とは異なるフェイズへ移行してい
る。そこに着目すれば「失われた 30 年」は終わったと言える。 
低成長に着目すれば「失われた 40 年」  
しかし、それで暮らしが良くなったわけではない。物価が上がるようになったことで、かえって国民
の不満や不安が大きくなった。だから政治は物価高対策で国民の不満を和らげようとし、衆議院選挙で
は各党が消費税減税を競い合う異様な事態となった。 「失われた 30 年」よりまずい状況になっているか
もしれないことを、政治家たちは肌で感じているのだろう。 
その肌感覚の正しさを証明する指標がある。一国経済の代表的な指標、実質 GDP の成長率（＝経済成
長率）である。バブル崩壊直後の 1992 年からコロナ禍前までの期間、すなわち「失われた 30 年」にお
おむね相当する期間でみると、経済成長率は年平均 0.9％であった。それが 2020 年代には 0.4％へ低下

===== Page 144 =====

2

しており、低成長に着目すれば日本は「失われた 40 年」へと向かっているように見える。いや、経済成
長率は「失われた 30 年」の半分なのだから、 「失われた 40 年」と単純延長するのは最初の 30 年に失礼
であり、 「失われた30 年より厳しい時代」になったと言うべきかもしれない。 
「実質ではなく名目でみれば成長率は高まっている」との反論がありうる。なぜか日本の経済論壇で
は、 「生活実感を表すのは名目値であり、名目成長率が重要」と言われることがある。そういう考えがい
つ、どのように出てきたのかは不明だが、ともかくそれは誤解である。名目成長率は物価上昇率を含ん
でいるので、物価高になればその分「水膨れ」する。その物価高こそ「生活実感」を悪くしている元凶
なのだから、名目成長率が生活実感を表すはずがない。そのことを理解するのに経済理論は要らず、常
識さえあればよい。その常識に基づき、生活実感に近づけるべく物価上昇分を取り除いたのが実質 GDP
である。実感と実質に同じ「実」の字が入っているのは偶然ではない。 
先ほど賃金も上がるようになったと述べたが、これも生活実感に近づけるには、物価を調整した「実
質賃金」で見た方がよい。すると、最近の実質賃金はコロナ禍前の 2019 年度に比べて 4％近くも低い1。
今後は、名目賃金がほぼ現状程度の伸びを維持する一方、物価上昇率は電力・ガス料金への政府支援な
どから低下し、実質賃金は前年比でプラスに転じるとみられる。しかし、前年比でプラスになったとし
ても、4％近い累積低下分を取り戻すには長い時間がかかる。 
株価は「失われた 20 年」でとっくに終わっている  
以上の話と全く風景が異なるのは、株価の上昇である。株価は名目値なので、最近の物価上昇でさら
に上がりやすくなった面はある。しかし、株価の上昇トレンドが始まったのは 2010 年代前半であり、物
価や賃金が上がり始める約 10 年前のことである。株価は「失われた 20 年」で終わっており、今日に至
るまで長い上昇基調を続けている。 
その基本的な背景は株式市場の改革であり、そのもとで進んだ企業経営の改革である。2013 年からの
アベノミクスの代表政策と言えば、異次元の金融緩和が印象に残るが、それは印象に残るだけの政策で
あった。 一方、 スチュワードシップコードの導入 （2014 年） 、 コーポレートガバナンスコードの導入 （2015
年） などの諸施策は、 実際に株式市場を変え日本企業を変えた。 それ以前からも、 外国人投資家の増加、
株式持ち合いの解消などにより、株式市場の構造変化は少しずつ進んでいたが、政策面での後押しもあ
り、2010 年代以降は企業経営者の意識改革が加速している。 
それでは、株価が「失われた 20 年」で終わったのに、なぜ日本経済は「失われた 40 年」に向かって
いるのだろうか。90 年代初頭の資産価格の下落で「失われた〇十年」が始まったのだから、 「逆も真な
り」なら、株価上昇の資産効果で経済成長は高まるはずである。ありうる答えのひとつは「株価が上昇
していなかったら日本経済はもっと低迷していた」である。最近の個人消費を見ても、百貨店の高額商
品などは売れ行きが好調であり、株価上昇の資産効果は明らかに存在する。それが日本経済全体の成長
軌道を押し上げるほどではない、ということだろう。

1 実質賃金を求める時にどの物価指標を使うかは議論の余地がある。ここでは、名目賃金には毎月勤労統計における共
通事業所ベースの現金給与総額、物価指標には消費者物価（持家の帰属家賃を除く総合）を使っている。

===== Page 145 =====

3

また、バブル崩壊時の株価下落と近年の株価上昇を、上下対称には語れない面もある。バブル崩壊の
マイナスインパクトが大きかったのは、それ以前の日本経済が、バブルを実力と過信した設備投資ブー
ム、消費ブームに沸いていたからである。実体以上に値上がりした資産を担保にして、企業は借り入れ
を増やしていた。だから実体がないとわかった時、大きな逆回転が起きた。 
そして、株価と経済の関係を理解するうえで最も重要なポイントは、 「日本企業」と「日本経済」は同
じではない、というシンプルな事実である。2010 年代以降の株価上昇はバブルではなく、経営改革によ
る「稼ぐ力」の改善に裏付けられたものである。ただし、株価指数に採用されている企業の「稼ぐ力」
が強くなっても、中小企業や家計を含む日本経済全体が比例的に動くわけではない。 
企業がどうやって「稼ぐ力」を強めてきたかを考えれば、両者は乖離するのがむしろ当たり前かもし
れない。企業が「稼ぐ力」の改善に向けて進めた改革は、主に海外展開の拡張と国内事業の選別・効率
化であった。少子高齢化などで国内事業は成長の余地が小さいという認識に立てば、これは合理的な戦
略であった。ただ、そうした戦略は国内の設備投資や人件費には抑制圧力となるため、その企業の収益
力は強化されても日本経済への正の波及効果は弱い。それどころか、株価を意識したこうした経営努力
が、日本経済に部分的には負の方向で作用した可能性すらある。 
日本にもＫ字型の懸念が  
様々な二極化現象を形容するとき、最近は「Ｋ字型」という言葉が使われる。Ｋの字の右半分が上向
きと下向きに分かれているからである。とくに最近の米国で、株高で潤う富裕層と物価高に苦しむ中低
所得層の二極化、ＡＩ関連投資とそれ以外の企業活動の二極化、などがよく言及されるＫ字型現象であ
る。米国ほど極端ではないにせよ、日本でも株高から大きな恩恵を受ける一部の資産保有者は、今の物
価高に痛みを感じていないと思われる。 「物価高問題」の本質は「格差問題」であり、金融政策や一律の
財政政策など、マクロ経済政策では対応できない。 
円安も国民に与える影響は一様でない。海外展開で利益を挙げる日本企業にとって、円安は海外収益
の円換算額を増やし、株価の押し上げ要因になる。一方、内需型の中小企業、さらに家計にとっては、
円安はコスト高要因であり、企業マージンを圧迫し実質賃金を押し下げる。円安は、日本全体にプラス
かマイナスかは評価が難しいが、総じて富裕層に有利で低中所得層に不利という望ましくない分配効果
をもたらす可能性は高い。 
さらには、物価上昇に対応して日銀が金利を引き上げていることも、資産が多い富裕層には金利収入
の増加をもたらし、住宅ローンなど債務を抱える低中所得層・若年層には追加コストとなる。長期のト
レンドとして資本の論理が強まり、ただでさえ金融資産の多額保有者に有利な構造が形成される中、円
安、物価高、金利上昇がＫ字型現象に拍車をかけている可能性が懸念される。 
株価が「失われた 20 年」で終わったこと、経済が「失われた 40 年」に向かっていることの組み合わ
せが、Ｋ字型を生み出す構造要因だとすると、 「失われた 30 年」の突然の終焉は、物価上昇、その一因
となった円安、 その結果起きる金利上昇の三位一体で、 Ｋ字型を深める要因となっているのではないか。
その大きな構図がはっきり見えない国民も、何か変だとは感じているだろう。上場企業の収益、株価、

===== Page 146 =====

4

大都市のマンション価格、百貨店の高額商品売り上げは、どれもこれも好調である。その一方で、多く
の人々は物価高で生活の質が上がらず、政府も有効な手立てを打てずにいる。 
有効な手立てが打たれていない理由は明らかである。昨今の経済政策を巡る議論において、 「物価高
問題はマクロ問題ではなく格差問題」という認識が乏しいからである。一律の財政政策（例えば食料品
の消費税減税）で対応しようとすれば、高級食材を楽しむ富裕層が大きな恩恵を享受するうえ、経済論
壇からは 「インフレが悪化する」 「財政規律が保たれない」 などの批判を招く。 金融政策で対応するなら、
上がりすぎた物価をいったん下げるぐらいの強力な利上げを行うしかないが、それだと景気が減速し賃
金まで下がってしまう。 
とりうる政策のアプローチは二つしかない。ひとつは、全体を底上げするよう経済成長率を高め「失
われた 40 年」を回避することである。しかし、これは歴代政権が長年試み続けてきたことであり、簡単
な方法がないことはすでにわかっている。もうひとつは、相対的に恵まれた人々に負担を求めながら、
できるだけ財政中立に近い形で中低所得層の痛みを和らげることである。 
高市政権が強く打ち出しているのは前者である。しかし、経済成長を確実に高める手段が見つかって
いない以上、いかなる成長戦略も「やってみて結果を祈る」性格の政策にしかならない。それでも「や
ってみる」ことに意味がないわけではないが、国民の期待が失望に変わる確率は高く、そうなるまでの
時間もそれほど長くはかからないかもしれない。だからこそ、所得・資産の再分配を目指す二つ目のア
プローチが重要であり、その土台となりうる新制度として、まずは給付付き税額控除の議論が速やかに
進むことを望みたい。

===== Page 147 =====

© 2026 Mizuho Research & Technologies, Ltd.
2026年2月24日みずほ経済・金融マンスリー

===== Page 148 =====

ｸﾞﾛｰﾊﾞﾙ52.7米国52.7ﾕｰﾛ圏51.6
日本53.7
中国49.4495051525354555657
24/10 24/12 25/2 25/4 25/6 25/8 25/10 25/12
（pt）
（年/月）
ｸﾞﾛｰﾊﾞﾙ50.9
米国52.4
ﾕｰﾛ圏49.5
日本51.5
中国49.3
454647484950515253
24/10 24/12 25/2 25/4 25/6 25/8 25/10 25/12
（pt）
（年/月）
世界経済：製造業景況感は日本で急回復。非製造業は中国・欧州で低下、米国・日本は上昇1月のグローバル製造業景況感は50.9と前月（50.4）から上昇。上昇幅は日本で顕著― 米国は生産増加が継続し、前月から改善。一方、関税が南米や欧州向けの販売を下押しし、輸出は減少継続― 日本は関税影響が薄れるもとで大幅に改善。新規輸出受注は2022年2月以来の増加グローバル非製造業景況感は52.7と前月（52.4）から上昇。主要地域の動きは区々― 米国は前月の減速から小幅に改善。生活費上昇を受けて消費者心理が低迷しており、サービス需要には停滞感も― ユーロ圏は2025年9月以来の水準に低下。成長をけん引してきたスペインの事業拡大ペース鈍化が背景

1
製造業の景況感（購買担当者景気指数）非製造業の景況感（購買担当者景気指数）
（注）グローバル日米欧：S&P Global、中：国家統計局。購買担当者景気指数（製造業）：企業に対するアンケート調査結果から作成した指数。新規受注や生産高、雇用、出荷遅延などの指数に一定のウエイトを掛けて算出。50が景気拡大・縮小の分岐点（出所）S&P Global、中国国家統計局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
（注）グローバル日米欧：S&P Global、中：国家統計局。購買担当者景気指数（非製造業）：企業に対するアンケート調査結果から作成した指数。50が景気拡大・縮小の分岐点（出所）S&P Global、中国国家統計局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 149 =====

金融市場の概況：衆院選の与党大勝を受け株高が進展。円金利上昇と円安は一服日本では、衆院選で与党が大勝し株高が進展した一方、財政懸念を材料視した円金利上昇・円安は一服―先行き、実質賃金の改善や、政府の経済対策による設備投資の下支え、景気回復期待が株価の支えに―経済政策や財源を巡る論点に注目が集まる地合いは続きやすく、先行きの急激な円安・円金利上昇リスクは残存米国では、インフレ指標の減速を受けて金利が低下。株価はソフトウェア関連が弱含むなかで概ね横ばい圏で推移―FRBはインフレ鈍化で利下げ路線を継続へ。先行きも緩やかな金利低下を予想―金利低下や底堅い米景気、中間選挙を見据えた財政支出の拡大を受け、株価は底堅い展開を見込む
2
主要マーケット指標の推移
（注） いずれの指数・数値も2/19までの実績、国債利回りは気配値（取引不成立を含む）、為替レートはNY時間17時時点（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
90
100
110
120
130
140
25/10 25/11 25/12 26/1 26/2

日経平均ダウ平均（米）S&P500（米）ナスダック（米）
（2025/10/1＝100）
（年/月）
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
25/10 25/11 25/12 26/1 26/2
米10年国債
日10年国債（右目盛）
独10年国債（右目盛）
（％）
（年/月）
（％）
1.12
1.13
1.14
1.15
1.16
1.17
1.18
1.19
1.20
1.21
1.22135
140
145
150
155
160
165
25/10 25/11 25/12 26/1 26/2
ドル円
ユーロドル（右目盛）
（円/ドル）
（年/月）
（ドル/ユーロ）

===== Page 150 =====

2,9002,9503,0003,0503,1003,1503,2003,2503,3003,3503,40023/1 23/7 24/1 24/7 25/1 25/7 26/1
（万人）
（年/月）
トランプ大統領就任
1月の失業率は4.3％と市場予想（4.4％）対比で改善。ただし、調査の回答率が低下したことには注意が必要― 家計調査は大寒波の影響で回答率が64.3％と、平均（75％）から低下。結果にはやや幅を持ってみる必要も今後の失業率を占ううえでは、外国人労働者の動向が重要に― トランプ政権の移民厳格化政策によって減少していた外国生まれの労働者が、足もとでは再び増加に転換― 今後の雇用回復局面でも、労働需給の過度なひっ迫は回避へ
米国：足元の失業率は改善、先行きを占ううえでは外国人労働者の動向がカギ
3（出所）米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
失業率 外国生まれの労働力人口
（出所）米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
4.28
3.5
3.7
3.9

4.1
4.3
4.5
4.7
24/1 24/7 25/1 25/7 26/1
（％）
（年/月）
外国人労働者数は再び増加へ

===== Page 151 =====

製造・卸・小売・輸送
医療福祉
政府
その他民間
合計
▲20▲15▲10▲505101520
25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
（前月差、万人）
（年/月）0
1
2
3
24 25 26
実質賃金雇用者数実質雇用者報酬
（前年比、％）
（年）
米国：雇用者数は医療福祉がけん引。ただし、関税の影響が大きい業種は依然として減少1月の非農業部門雇用者数は前月差＋13.0万人と市場予想（同＋7.0万人）を大きく上回る結果に― 医療福祉（同＋12.4万人）がけん引。ただし、昨年の平均的な伸びの2倍以上増加しており、一時的な振れの可能性大― 製造・卸・小売・輸送など、関税影響が大きい業種は依然として減少。マイナス幅は縮小も、プラス転換には至らず― 今後は、関税による収益への悪影響が徐々に緩和していくとみられる。そうした中で、関税影響業種の雇用が増加に転じ、実質雇用者報酬の減速も一服するか注目される
4（出所）米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
非農業部門雇用者数 実質雇用者報酬

（出所）米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
1月は医療福祉がけん引関税影響業種は徐々にマイナス幅が縮小も、プラス転換には至らず
これまでの実質雇用者報酬は雇用減速を背景に鈍化継続
今後、雇用が回復に転じれば、実質雇用者報酬も減速一服へ

===== Page 152 =====

コメント企業
顧客からの電話の80%以上でAIツールを活用し、迅速かつ正確な回答を提供。AIを活用した効率化とコスト削減により、運営コスト率は2025年の13.3%から、2026年の12.8%へ改善する見込み
A社（医療）
AIエージェントにより、ピックアップミスへの対応が自動化され、95%のチェックが自動化。1日あたり350時間の人件費に相当する外注作業が削減。 同様に、リクエスト対応のプロセスの改善により、処理時間が17～20分から32秒以下に短縮
B社（輸送）
開発者向けAIによって20,000人以上の従業員の生産性が平均45%向上C社（IT）
コアCPI（家賃除く）
コア財
コアサービス（家賃除く）
▲2
▲1
0
1
2
3
4
5
23 24 25 26
（前年比、％）
（年）
米国：物価は鈍化継続。今後のカギを握るのはAI等による生産性の上昇2026年1月のコアCPIは前年比＋2.5％と、市場予想（同＋2.5％）と同様の伸びに。12月（同＋2.6％）から鈍化― なお、昨年の政府閉鎖の影響（家賃が過小推計の可能性大）を除くため、家賃を除くコアCPIを見ても同＋2.1％と、12月（同＋2.2％）から鈍化。関税影響が一服する中でコア財は減速したほか、サービス物価も均してみれば減速傾向継続今後の物価のカギを握るのは、AI等による生産性の上昇―1月以降の企業決算では、AIツールの活用で生産性の上昇やコスト削減に成功する企業のコメントが散見される。こうした動きが広がり、生産性上昇がコストを吸収すれば、物価は減速傾向が継続するとみられる

5（出所）米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
家賃を除く物価指数 AIによって生産性向上・コスト削減が進んだ事例
（出所）各社決算報告より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
コア財・コアサービス（家賃除く）ともに減速傾向で推移

===== Page 153 =====

企業数 売上
020406080
～5 5～9 10～19 20～99 100～999 1000～
（％）
（従業員規模）
3 9 1397 91 88
020406080100
24年Q1決算 25年Q1決算 26年Q1決算
言及なし言及あり（％）
（決算期）
米国：大企業を中心としたAI実装の進展は、生産性向上→インフレ抑制要因に大企業の約半数がAI関連求人を募集。企業規模が大きいほどAI活用に関心全企業数に占める大企業のシェアは0.2％だが、売上では約6割を占める。大企業のAI実装は経済全体の生産性に影響大― ただし、足もとでAIによる業績改善を公表している大企業の割合は1割強にとどまる。（成功事例は電話対応・チェック・システム開発業務での効率化・コスト削減等）― 今後は大企業を中心にAI実装が進み、経済全体の生産性を押し上げる見込み。生産性上昇はインフレ圧力を吸収
6
企業規模別のシェア、AIで業績改善した大企業の割合
（注）AI効果の開示に関する判定はChat GPTによる。集計対象はダウ・ジョーンズ総合平均（65社）（出所）米国商務省、各社決算より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

AI関連求人を出している企業の割合（規模別）
（出所）Indeedより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
1.4
3.3
23.4
31.9
49.9
0 20 40 60
下位0～50％
下位50～80％
下位80～90％
上位5％
上位1％
（企業規模）
（％）
企業規模が大きいほどにAI関連求人を出す企業の割合が多い
企業数全体に占める大企業の割合は非常に小さいが、売上は6割を占める
企業数・売上のシェア（規模別）
AIで業績が改善したことに言及する大企業の割合
AIによる業績改善は徐々に拡大も、足もとでは1割程度

===== Page 154 =====

0102030405060
技能・資格不足無断欠勤・早期離職就労要件未充足薬物検査不合格現場への通勤が不可
（回答割合、％）
▲0.0
▲6.1
▲1.4▲0.91.22.12.9
▲7▲6▲5▲4▲3▲2▲101234
全体 工業建築住宅建築その他工事設備工事（電気・空調等）
商業建築（DC含む）
電力・通信建設
（％）
米国：建設技能人材の不足は、データセンター建設のスピードを抑制するおそれAIブームを背景とした活発なデータセンター（DC）投資を受け、関連する人材のニーズが高まっている様子―2025年通年で見た建設業の雇用者数は、工業建設や住宅建設では減少。一方、商業建設（DC含む）や、DC建設で重要な役割を果たす設備工事業（電気、配管、空調等）では、雇用者数が増加建設業では「技能・資格不足」が喫緊の課題。DC建設に欠かせない設備工事業（電気、配管、空調等）についてはとりわけ高い技術水準や資格要件が求められる中、一部企業では技能人材育成に本腰を入れ始める動き― 建設技能人材や電力などの供給制約がDC建設・AI普及を阻害するリスクには要注意

7（出所）米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
建設業の雇用者の変化（2024年12月→25年12月） 人員補充が困難な理由（建設技能職の労働力調査2025）
（注）複数回答可（出所）AGC、NCCERより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
DC建設に関連する人材のニーズが増加 技能・資格不足が喫緊の課題建設技能人材の育成が重要に

===== Page 155 =====

欧州：インドとのFTA交渉妥結。今後の域外連携拡大に重要な意義EUとインドのFTA（自由貿易協定）交渉が妥結（1/27）。1年以内を目途に施行の見通し―インドは割当枠内で自動車関税を110％から10％に引き下げるほか、化学製品や医薬品、鉄鋼関税もほぼ撤廃―EUは99%以上の関税を引き下げ。一部農産品の関税は維持も、双方で9割以上の関税を引き下げた格好EUからは化学製品や機械等の輸出が増加する見込み。GDPを0.13％押し上げ（キール世界経済研究所試算）― 今後、本協定をモデルに他国とのFTA締結が加速する可能性。多角化を志向するEU・インドにとって象徴的な協定に― なお、本格的な市場アクセスには時間を要する見込み。EU側の批准手続きとインドの複雑な行政手続きが課題に
8（出所） 欧州委員会、インド商工省より、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成
EUインド自由貿易協定の主な内容EUインド自由貿易協定の経済効果
（出所） キール世界経済研究所より、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成
GDPを0.13%押し上げ

0.110.120.130.14EUインド
<GDPへの影響>（％）
020406080EU⇒インド インド⇒EU<輸出への影響>（％）
EU⇒インド(%)205化学製品169ゴム・プラ153電気機械56一般機械42専門サービス
インド⇒EU(%)119化学製品84食品52管理サービス50ITサービス38衣料品
<主な輸出増加品目>
インドからEUへの措置EU製品の約96％に対する関税を引き下げ• 25万台の割当枠内で自動車関税を段階的に引き下げ（110％→10％）。一般・電気機械（最大44%）・化学製品（同22％）・医薬品（同11％）・鉄鋼（同22％）の関税をほぼ撤廃•ワインへの関税を150％から20％に段階的に引き下げ。パスタやチョコレート、パン等の加工食品（現行関税率最大50%）や植物油（同45％）への関税は撤廃乳製品、穀物、家禽、大豆、特定の果物や野菜等の関税は維持EUからインドへの措置99%以上のインド製品への関税を引き下げ•繊維、衣料品、革、靴、海産物、宝石・宝飾品、手工芸品、ハイテク製品、自動車等の関税を撤廃規制簡素化、税関・検疫手続き合理化等の非関税障壁削減牛肉、砂糖、米、鶏肉等の農産品の関税は維持相互措置ITや専門、教育、金融等サービス事業者の市場アクセス拡大短期的に専門職の印EU間移動制限を緩和する枠組み構築

===== Page 156 =====

欧州：ECBは5会合連続で政策金利維持。賃金インフレや財政出動による物価上振れ懸念は小ECBは2月理事会で預金ファシリティ金利を2.00％に据え置き。ラガルド総裁は物価の安定や経済の底堅さを念頭に金融政策は「良好な位置」にあると発言した一方、地政学リスクの高さへの警戒感も示し慎重姿勢を維持サービス物価は減速継続。先行指標も賃金・サービスインフレ圧力の低下を示唆―1月のユーロ圏消費者物価は前年比＋1.7％（12月：同＋2.0％）と減速。エネルギーやサービスが押し下げ要因― サービス物価に半年程度先行するIndeed募集賃金は、遅くとも年央にはサービス物価が2％台に突入すると示唆―ECBスタッフ見通しでは、物価は2026・27年に1％台後半へ下振れも、28年には2％目標へ収束する見込み
9（出所）ECBより、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成
2月ECB理事会のポイント ユーロ圏：サービス物価とIndeed募集賃金
（注）1．賃金に敏感なサービスは、中間投入に占める賃金コストの比率が平均よりも高い品目2．Indeed募集賃金は3カ月後方移動平均（出所）Eurostat、Indeed Hiring Labより、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成

内容ポイント経済成長は情報通信分野を中心とするサービス業がけん引。製造業は貿易・地政学的不確実性の中でも底堅い。建設業は公共投資等を背景に勢いを増している防衛やインフラ投資の増加が予想されるほか、各種調査は企業のデジタル化投資の拡大も示唆。一方、関税やユーロ高で外部環境は厳しい状況【上振れ要因】防衛費・インフラ支出の増加、生産性向上改革、新技術導入【下振れ要因】貿易摩擦、金融市場のセンチメント悪化、地政学リスク
景気
基調的インフレ率は物価目標と整合的。妥結賃金やECB賃金トラッカーなどの先行指標は、労働コストの継続的な低下を示唆【上振れ要因】エネルギー価格の持続的上昇、サプライチェーンの分断、防衛費やインフラ支出の増加、異常気象による食料価格上昇【下振れ要因】ユーロ高、輸出需要の減少、過剰生産能力を持つ国からのユーロ圏への輸出増、金融市場のボラティリティ上昇
物価
全会一致で金利据え置きを決定。データ次第、会合ごとのアプローチを維持政策金利
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
21 22 23 24 25 26

サービス物価賃金に敏感なサービスIndeed募集賃金（6カ月先行）
（前年比、％）
（年）
サービス物価は減速継続先行指標は2％台突入を示唆

===== Page 157 =====

潜在成長率
財政効果
需給ギャップ（右） ▲ 1.0
▲ 0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
▲ 2.0
▲ 1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
15 17 19 21 23 25 27
（前年比、％）
（年）
（％）潜在成長率との差
欧州：財政拡張も民間投資への波及は限定的。需給ひっ迫によるインフレ加速には至らず財政拡張はGDPを0.4％押し上げと試算。民間投資誘発効果は限定的― 各国予算案から計算されるユーロ圏の財政収支は、2025年：▲3.2％→2026年▲3.6％と赤字拡大の見込み―EU復興基金は2021年に開始され、2026年末で拠出期限を迎える予定だが、2025年末時点で約4割程度が未消化。引き出しペース加速も後押し― ただし、民間投資加速などの乗数効果発現には時間を要すると予想。エネルギーコスト高をはじめ構造問題が重石に―需給ギャップは2027年に0.2％程度の小幅プラスにとどまり、インフレ加速のリスクは小
10
（注） スペインは2026年予算未提出のため、欧州委員会による予測値（2025年11月時点）を表示（出所） 欧州委員会、各種報道より、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成

ユーロ圏：2026年予算案に基づく財政収支財政拡張による需給ギャップへの影響
（注）EU復興基金はこれまでのペースの1.3倍に引き出しペースが加速し、財政支出増加幅のうち20％が輸入で賄われると設定。また、2026・2027年に均等に効果が発現すると仮定（出所）Eurostat、欧州委員会より、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成
需給ギャップは小幅プラス
▲ 3.3
▲ 5.4
▲ 3.2
▲ 4.8▲ 5.0
▲ 3.6
▲6
▲5
▲4
▲3
▲2
▲1
0
スペイン イタリア ドイツ フランス ユーロ圏
20252026（GDP比、％）
EU財政ルール
▲0.4％の赤字拡大

===== Page 158 =====

総合
製造業建設業
非製造業
4849505152535424/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
（％Pt）
（年/月）
中国：総合PMIは2カ月ぶりの節目割れ。CPIは春節時期ずれ要因により減速1月の総合PMIは49.8と、前月（50.7）から低下し、2カ月ぶりの節目割れ。春節（旧正月）を前に建設業の落ち込み響く― 製造業PMIは49.3（前月：50.1）。生産は50を上回った（50.6）が、新規受注が大幅に低下（12月：50.8⇒1月：49.2）― 非製造業PMIは49.4（前月：50.2）。金融サービスが堅調で65を上回ったものの、不動産が不調で40を下回った1月の消費者物価指数（CPI）は前年比＋0.2％と、前月（＋0.8％）から減速。春節時期のずれで、食品や旅行がマイナスに― 食品・エネルギー除くコアCPIも同＋0.8％と、前月（＋1.2％）から減速。金宝飾品の上昇（同＋77.4％）の影響がなお大きい。「生活用品」の家具・家電が同＋6.6％と堅調な一方、「交通・通信」の輸送機器が▲1.5％と全体を押し下げ

11
購買担当者景気指数（PMI）
（出所） 中国国家統計局、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
総合、製造業、非製造業ともに前月から一転して節目割れ
▲1.5
▲1.0
▲0.50.00.51.01.524/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
その他住宅教育・文化交通・通信医療・保健生活用品食品・外食CPI
（前年比、％）
（年/月）（注）2025年価格基準の新ウェイトに基づき寄与度を算出（出所） 中国国家統計局、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
消費者物価指数（CPI）
交通・通信が全体を押し下げ

===== Page 159 =====

金備蓄
米国債（右）
6,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,0006,0006,4006,8007,2007,60022/1 23/1 24/1 25/1 26/1
（万トロイオンス）
（年/月）
（億ドル） 取引日中終値
基準値
6.86.97.07.17.27.37.424/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1
↑元安
元高↓
（年/月）
（人民元/米ドル）
中国：脱米ドル依存へ金備蓄を積み増し。人民元相場は一時1ドル＝6.9元を超えて元高進行金価格が高騰する中、中国人民銀行は15カ月連続で金備蓄を積み増し。保有残高が外貨準備の10％の規模に― 他方、中国による米国債保有は右肩下がりで、11月に6,826億ドルと、2013年のピーク（1兆3,167億ドル）から半減― 中国当局が地政学リスクを意識し、準備資産の脱米ドル依存を着実に推し進めている様子がうかがえる人民元相場は、春節（旧正月、2/17）前の人民元資金需要の強さも手伝って、一時1ドル＝6.9元を超えて元高が進行―当局は基準値設定で元高を容認。市場のドル弱気姿勢を背景に、春節休暇明け後も元高基調が続くとみられる― 市場は3/5開幕の全人代における経済政策に注目。当局が金融緩和を加速させれば元安に転じる可能性も

12（出所） 中国人民銀行、米財務省、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
中国による金備蓄・米国債保有残高人民元対米ドルレート
（注） 灰色網掛けは相場の許容変動幅（基準値の上下2.0％以内）（出所）CFETS、CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
春節前は1ドル＝6.91元でクローズ
金備蓄を積み増す一方、米国債保有はピーク時から半減

===== Page 160 =====

▲0.8▲0.6▲0.4▲0.20.00.20.40.60.81.0Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q42024 2025
（前期比、％）
設備投資
個人消費
公的需要
在庫投資実質GDP
外需（四半期）（年）
住宅投資
日本：10～12月期は2四半期ぶりのプラス成長になるも、力強さを欠く結果2025年10～12月期の実質GDPは前期比年率＋0.2％（7～9月期同▲2.6％）と持ち直すも、プラス幅が小さく力強さを欠く― 住宅投資、設備投資が回復した一方、輸出が2四半期連続で減少。中国向けの機械関連輸出減が影響した模様―個人消費は7四半期連続で増加したが、前期から増勢鈍化。節約志向の高まりで食品・衣料品が伸び悩み2026年1～3月期は、個人消費や設備投資を中心に拡大する見込み― インフレ率の減速による実質賃金の改善に加え、足元の株高が消費を後押しすると予想。一方、中国人訪日客の減少によるインバウンド需要（サービス輸出）の弱まりが押し下げ要因に
13
（注） 図の項目別寄与度の合計は、誤差により実質GDPに完全に一致しない。表の値は、言及がない限り実質前期比、（ ）内はGDPへの寄与度（出所） 内閣府「四半期別GDP速報」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

2025年10～12月期GDP（1次速報）
2四半期ぶりに増加するも、力強さを欠く結果
2024 202510～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12実質GDP 0.5 0.3 0.5 ▲0.7 0.1 （前期比年率） 1.9 1.0 2.1 ▲2.6 0.2 （前年比） 0.6 1.6 2.0 0.6 0.1 内需 ▲0.3 0.9 0.4 ▲0.4 0.0 民需 ▲0.4 1.2 0.4 ▲0.4 0.1 個人消費 0.1 0.7 0.2 0.4 0.1 住宅投資 0.6 ▲0.2 0.0 ▲8.4 4.8 設備投資 ▲0.2 0.2 1.3 ▲0.3 0.2 在庫投資 (▲0.4) (0.5) (0.0) (▲0.1) (▲0.2)公需 ▲0.1 ▲0.2 0.3 ▲0.1 ▲0.2 政府消費 0.1 ▲0.3 0.5 0.1 0.1 公共投資 ▲0.2 ▲0.2 0.0 ▲1.5 ▲1.3 外需 (0.8) (▲0.6) (0.1) (▲0.3) (0.0)輸出 1.7 ▲0.2 1.9 ▲1.4 ▲0.3 輸入 ▲1.9 2.5 1.4 ▲0.1 ▲0.3 名目GDP 1.1 0.9 2.1 ▲0.0 0.6 GDPデフレーター（前年比） 3.0 3.6 3.2 3.5 3.4

===== Page 161 =====

鉱工業
生産用機械工業
電気・情報通信機械工業
輸送機械工業
909510010511011512012513013524/1 24/4 24/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10
日本：10～12月期鉱工業生産は自動車や半導体製造装置を中心に増産2025年10～12月期は前期比＋0.8％の増産。2026年は内外需の回復を受け、緩やかながら増加基調を辿ると予想― 輸送機械工業や生産用機械工業（特に半導体製造装置）、電気・情報通信機械工業の増産が顕著―輸送機械工業の増産は米国向け自動車輸出の回復による影響が大きい。中国製車載半導体の供給制約影響は軽微2025年10～12月期の投資財総供給は前期比＋4.1％。2026年も業績回復を受け設備投資需要は底堅く推移へ― 資本財（除.輸送機械）は同＋5.1％と堅調。企業収益が底堅さを維持するなか、設備投資の持続性が示唆される結果― 建設財は同＋0.8％だが、均してみれば伸び悩み。人手不足等の供給制約による建設工事の進捗抑制が一因に

14（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業生産」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
鉱工業生産輸送機械工業や半導体製造装置など生産用機械工業が堅調
投資財総供給
（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業生産」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
資本財は堅調も、建設財は伸び悩み
8085909510010511011512012513023/1 23/7 24/1 24/7 25/1 25/7
投資財資本財（除．輸送機械）建設財

===== Page 162 =====

そう思う4.0
プラス影響大25.7
賛成50.9
そう思わない88.0
マイナス影響大9.3
反対44.9
どちらともいえない8.0
影響なし・分からない65.0
不明
4.2
専門家
企業
家計
（％）与党の減税案への賛否
自社への影響
日本経済へのプラス面がマイナス面より大きい
インフレ率
名目賃金（共通事業所）
実質賃金（共通事業所）
▲ 4▲ 3▲ 2▲ 10123456
22 23 24 25 （年）
（前年比、％）
日本：実質賃金に下げ止まりの兆し。消費税減税は賛否が分かれ、効果限定的との見方もインフレ鈍化を背景に実質賃金に下げ止まりの兆し―12月の実質賃金（共通事業所）は前年比▲0.1％とほぼ横ばい圏。基調としてもマイナス幅は縮小傾向―1月から実施されている電気・ガス代補助の物価下押しを踏まえると、1～3月期の実質賃金の伸びはプラス転化の公算世論調査では消費税減税への賛否が拮抗。企業向けサーベイでも、自社にプラス影響と回答した企業は少数にとどまる― 経済学者への調査では、日本経済へのプラス面がマイナス面を上回るかとの質問に、88％が否定的な回答

15
（注）実質賃金は名目賃金（共通事業所ベース）と総合CPIより算出。点線は月次の実績。実線は3カ月移動平均（出所） 厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」、総務省「消費者物価指数」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
実質賃金の推移（共通事業所ベース）消費減税に対するアンケート調査（家計・企業・専門家）
（出所） 共同通信社、日本経済新聞社、帝国データバンクより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
インフレ鈍化により、実質賃金のマイナス幅は縮小傾向

===== Page 163 =====

2.93.03.13.23.33.43.53.63.73.83.9
2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 1226
1/302/132/18FOMC参加者の予想（12月）
（％）
（月）（年）3.33.53.73.94.14.34.54.74.9
25/03 25/05 25/07 25/09 25/11 26/01
2年5年10年
（％）
（年/月）
米国債券市場：米金利は月半ばに低下。背景にインフレ鈍化を受けた年内利下げ観測2月の米10年国債利回りは、月半ばに低下―月初は、次期FRB議長が金融政策に与える影響を見極める動きや、政府機関の一部閉鎖による米経済指標の公表遅延を背景に様子見姿勢が強く、長期金利は4.2％台で概ね横ばい推移―中旬は、1月CPIが減速したことを受けて年内利下げ観測が高まり、4.0％近傍へ低下先行きについて、FRBはインフレ鈍化を背景にもう一段の利下げに踏み切ると予想。その結果、長期金利は緩やかながらも低下する見込み
16
名目金利の推移（米国）市場が予想するFFレートのパス

（注） 市場予想はFF金利先物をベースにしたもの。FOMC参加者の予想はドットチャートの中央値（各年末時点）（出所）FRB、LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成（注）2・5・10年は米国債利回り。2/19時点（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

===== Page 164 =====

実績 12月末時点
市場予想
1.50
1.75
2.00
2.25
2.50
2.75
3.00
1 3 4 6 7 9 10 12 2 3 4 6 7 9 10 122025 2026
（％）
（月）（年）
欧州債券市場：独長期金利は低下。先行きはユーロ高による物価・金利の下振れリスクに注意独金利は長期ゾーン中心に低下。昨年末以来の水準―2月の独長期金利は米金利に連動する形で低下。米独金利差は小幅に縮小し、ユーロ相場を下支えする要因にECB政策金利は当面据え置きを予想。ただし、ユーロ高による物価下振れリスクには注意― 昨年末対比で市場の利下げ織り込みが拡大。ユーロ高による物価の下振れを懸念したものと推察―2月のECB理事会では物価のリスクバランスに関する質問が複数回見られたものの、ラガルド総裁はリスクは上下に均衡している評価。現段階では、2026年内の政策変更は無しと予想
17
市場が予想するECB政策金利のパス名目金利の推移（ドイツ）
（注）2年・5年・10年・30年は独国債利回り。2/18時点（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成（注）市場予想はOISをベースとしたもの。実績はECB預金ファシリティ金利。2/18時点（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

2年5年
10年
30年
1.51.71.92.12.32.52.72.93.13.33.53.7
25/06 25/08 25/10 25/12 26/02
（％）
（年/月）

===== Page 165 =====

国内債券・為替：衆院選での与党大勝などを受け、長期金利は低下。ドル円は円安圧力が一服円金利は衆院選を巡る財政懸念の高まりから上昇したが、その後は与党大勝や米金利低下などを受けて低下― 衆院選で自民党が大勝したことで、野党との政策協力を前提とした大規模な財政拡張リスクは後退したとの見方― 過度な財政懸念のはく落から目先は金利低下圧力が残存するも、円金利は徐々に横ばい圏での推移へ財政懸念を材料視した円安は、介入警戒感や米利下げ観測なども背景に一服。対ドル・対ユーロで円高が進展― 目先、ドル円は150円台の円安水準での推移を予想。経済政策や財源を巡る論点に注目が集まる地合いは続きやすい―FRBが利下げスタンスを継続するとみられる点は円安抑制要因に
18（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
日本国債利回り ドル円・ユーロ円
（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ドル円
ユーロ円（右目盛）
16517017518018519014515015516016517025/8 25/9 25/10 25/11 25/12 26/1 26/2

（ドル/円）
（年/月）
（ユーロ/円）
円安基調は2月に入り一服
高市首相が衆議院解散意向と報道 （26/1/10）
高市首相が消費税減税に言及（26/1/19）
衆議院総選挙（26/2/9）
10年
30年（右目盛）
2.42.62.83.03.23.43.63.84.0
1.41.61.82.02.22.42.62.83.0
25/8 25/9 25/10 25/11 25/12 26/1 26/2
（％）
（年/月）
（％）

===== Page 166 =====

0
50
100
150
200
250
25/1 25/5 25/9 26/1
建設情報技術全業種
（2025年=100）
（年/月）60708090100110120130140
25/1 25/5 25/9 26/1
建設情報技術全業種
（2025年=100）
（年/月）90
100
110
120
130
140
150
25/7 25/9 25/11 26/1
日経平均株価S&P500
（2024年末＝100）
（年/月）
内外株式：日本株は上昇継続、米国株は横ばい圏で推移。今後はハイテク以外の業種にも注目日本株は衆院選での与党大勝を受け上昇基調が継続― 先行きも、良好な企業業績に加え、高市政権の成長投資などへの期待が押し上げる形で堅調な推移を見込む米国株は横ばい圏で推移。情報技術セクターが下落する一方、データセンター需要を受け建設業が上昇― 最新AIエージェントがビジネス上の脅威になるとの懸念から、ソフトウェア関連などを中心に情報技術セクターが下落― 一方、建設業はデータセンター需要を受け収益期待が急拡大。AI影響がハイテク以外の業種にも波及― 先行きは、米経済の堅調さを背景に株価は底堅く推移すると予想

19
日経平均株価、S&P500S&P500業種別株価と12カ月先予想EPSの推移
（注）2/20時点（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
株価 12カ月先EPS
情報技術の伸びが一服するなか、足元建設が顕著に上昇

===== Page 167 =====

（注） 網掛けは予測値（出所） 内閣府「四半期別GDP速報」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
資料１－１
日本経済予測総括表（ 25年12月25日時点 ）
20
2024 2025 2026 2024 2025 2026 2027年度 年度 年度 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3実質GDP 0.5 1.0 1.0 ▲0.5 0.2 0.7 0.3 0.4 0.5 ▲0.6 0.4 0.1 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.2 － － － ▲2.1 1.0 2.7 1.4 1.5 2.1 ▲2.3 1.8 0.6 2.1 0.7 0.8 0.7 内需 0.9 1.1 1.2 ▲0.7 0.7 0.9 ▲0.5 0.9 0.4 ▲0.4 0.4 0.2 0.5 0.2 0.3 0.2 民需 0.5 1.4 1.1 ▲0.9 0.2 1.1 ▲0.6 1.3 0.5 ▲0.5 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.3 0.2 個人消費0.2 1.2 0.9 ▲0.3 0.0 0.5 ▲0.0 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.4 0.2 0.2 0.2 住宅投資▲0.7 ▲3.6 1.3 ▲1.1 ▲0.0 0.8 0.4 ▲0.0 0.4 ▲8.2 2.8 2.5 0.5 ▲0.4 ▲0.1 ▲0.0 設備投資0.9 1.7 1.7 ▲2.4 1.1 0.6 ▲0.2 0.2 1.3 ▲0.2 0.3 0.5 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.5 在庫投資(0.1) (0.3) (▲0.0) (0.0) (▲0.1) (0.4) (▲0.4) (0.6) (0.0) (▲0.1) (0.2) (▲0.1) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0)公需 2.0 0.1 1.5 ▲0.0 2.2 0.2 ▲0.2 ▲0.2 0.2 ▲0.0 0.1 0.1 1.0 0.2 0.3 0.2 政府消費2.3 0.4 0.9 0.3 2.2 ▲0.1 0.1 ▲0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 公共投資0.1 ▲1.3 3.5 ▲1.1 1.1 1.0 ▲0.6 ▲0.1 0.0 ▲1.1 ▲0.5 ▲0.5 4.0 0.2 0.5 ▲0.2 外需 (▲0.4) (▲0.1) (▲0.2) (0.1) (▲0.5) (▲0.2) (0.8) (▲0.6) (0.1) (▲0.2) (0.0) (▲0.0) (▲0.0) (▲0.1) (▲0.1) (▲0.0)輸出 1.7 2.1 1.1 ▲3.7 0.5 2.2 1.7 ▲0.1 1.9 ▲1.2 ▲0.5 0.1 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.6 輸入 3.3 2.4 1.9 ▲4.0 2.6 3.0 ▲1.9 2.4 1.4 ▲0.4 ▲0.6 0.3 0.7 0.9 0.9 0.8 名目GDP 3.7 4.4 3.3 ▲0.7 2.1 1.1 1.1 0.9 2.1 ▲0.1 1.3 0.5 1.4 0.7 0.5 0.4 GDPデフレーター3.2 3.3 2.3 3.5 3.6 2.7 3.0 3.6 3.3 3.4 3.4 3.2 2.7 2.6 2.0 2.0 内需デフレーター2.8 2.4 1.8 2.3 3.1 2.4 2.5 3.1 2.6 2.8 2.3 1.8 1.7 1.9 1.8 1.9

前期比、％
前期比、％ 前期比年率、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比寄与度、％Pt 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比寄与度、％Pt 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前期比、％ 前年比、％ 前年比、％

===== Page 168 =====

資料１－２
（注） 網掛けはみずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズによる予測値（出所） 米国商務省、米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
米国経済予測総括表（ 25年12月25日時点 ）
21
2024 2025 2026 2024 2025 2026（見通し） 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12実質GDP前期比年率、％2.8 2.1 2.1 0.8 3.6 3.3 1.9 ▲ 0.6 3.8 4.3 0.9 1.6 2.2 2.1 2.1個人消費前期比年率、％2.9 2.6 2.1 1.7 3.9 4.0 3.9 0.6 2.5 3.5 1.8 1.5 2.3 2.1 2.1住宅投資前期比年率、％3.2 ▲ 1.9 ▲ 0.4 8.2 ▲ 2.0 ▲ 4.8 4.3 ▲ 1.0 ▲ 5.1 ▲ 5.1 ▲ 1.2 1.0 1.6 1.7 1.7設備投資前期比年率、％2.9 4.0 2.4 1.5 2.5 3.5 ▲ 3.7 9.5 7.3 2.8 1.8 1.7 2.2 2.1 2.1在庫投資前期比年率寄与度、％Pt0.0 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.8 1.2 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.9 2.6 ▲ 3.4 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.1 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1政府支出前期比年率、％3.8 1.4 0.8 2.3 3.3 5.4 3.3 ▲ 1.0 ▲ 0.1 2.2 ▲ 2.0 1.6 1.3 1.3 1.4純輸出前期比年率寄与度、％Pt▲ 0.4 ▲ 0.2 0.5 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 1.0 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 4.7 4.8 1.6 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.0 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.1輸出 前期比年率、％3.6 1.6 1.0 4.6 0.7 8.9 ▲ 0.9 0.2 ▲ 1.8 8.8 ▲ 2.3 0.2 1.0 1.2 1.3輸入 前期比年率、％5.8 2.7 ▲ 2.4 6.9 8.4 10.1 ▲ 0.2 38.0 ▲ 29.3 ▲ 4.7 ▲ 0.8 0.1 1.1 1.5 1.5失業率 ％4.0 4.3 4.4 3.8 4.0 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.5 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.3個人消費支出ﾃﾞﾌﾚｰﾀｰ前年比、％2.6 2.6 2.5 2.8 2.7 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.4 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.7 2.4 2.3食品・ｴﾈﾙｷﾞｰを除くｺｱ前年比、％2.9 2.9 2.6 3.1 2.8 2.8 3.0 2.8 2.7 2.9 3.0 2.9 2.8 2.5 2.3

===== Page 169 =====

巻末資料 日本 四半期スケジュール（2～5月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2月 3月 4月 5月2 新車販売台数(1月) 2 新車販売台数(2月) 1 日銀短観(3月調査) 1 消費者物価(4月都区部)6 家計調査(12月) 3 労働力調査(1月) 1 新車販売台数(3月) 1 新車販売台数(4月)6 景気動向指数(12月) 3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 7 家計調査(2月) 7 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨9 毎月勤労統計(12月速報) 3 一般職業紹介(1月) 7 景気動向指数(2月) 8 毎月勤労統計(3月速報)9 景気ウォッチャー調査(1月) 3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 8 国際収支(2月速報) 12 景気動向指数(3月)9 国際収支(12月速報) 4 消費動向調査(2月) 8 景気ウォッチャー調査(3月) 13 国際収支(3月速報)10 マネーストック(1月速報) 9 景気動向指数(1月) 8 毎月勤労統計(2月速報) 13 景気ウォッチャー調査(4月)12 企業物価指数(1月) 9 国際収支(1月速報) 9 消費動向調査(3月) 14 マネーストック(4月速報)16 設備稼働率(12月) 9 景気ウォッチャー調査(2月) 10 企業物価指数(3月) 15 企業物価指数(4月)16 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期1次速報) 9 毎月勤労統計(1月速報) 13 マネーストック(3月速報) 21 貿易統計(4月)17 第3次産業活動指数(12月) 10 家計調査(1月) 15 機械受注統計(2月) 22 消費者物価(4月全国)18 貿易統計(1月) 10 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期2次速報) 22 貿易統計(3月) 29 消費者物価(5月都区部)19 機械受注統計(12月) 10 マネーストック(2月速報) 24 消費者物価(3月全国) 29 労働力調査(4月)20 消費者物価(1月全国) 11 企業物価指数(2月) 27 日銀金融政策決定会合(27・28日) 29 一般職業紹介(4月)27 消費者物価(2月都区部) 12 法人企業景気予測調査(1～3月期) 28 日銀｢経済･物価情勢の展望」(基本的見解)27 商業動態統計(1月速報) 17 第3次産業活動指数(1月) 28 日銀総裁定例記者会見27 鉱工業生産(1月速報) 18 貿易統計(2月) 28 労働力調査(3月)27 住宅着工統計(1月) 18 資金循環統計(10～12月期速報) 28 一般職業紹介(3月)18 日銀金融政策決定会合(18・19日) 30 住宅着工統計(3月)19 設備稼働率(1月) 30 消費動向調査(4月)19 日銀総裁定例記者会見19 機械受注統計(1月)24 消費者物価(2月全国)25 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨31 労働力調査(2月)31 消費者物価(3月都区部)31 商業動態統計(2月速報)31 鉱工業生産(2月速報)31 住宅着工統計(2月)31 一般職業紹介(2月)

日 本
22

===== Page 170 =====

巻末資料 米国・欧州 四半期スケジュール（2～5月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2月 3月 4月 5月2 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(1月) 2 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(2月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(3月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(4月)4 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月) 4 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月) 2 貿易収支(2月) 5 貿易収支(3月)5 貿易収支(12月) 5 貿易収支(1月) 3 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月) 5 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月)5 労働生産性(10～12月期暫定) 5 労働生産性(10～12月期改定) 3 雇用統計(3月) 7 労働生産性(1～3月期暫定)6 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(2月速報) 6 雇用統計(2月) 7 FOMC議事録(3/17・18分) 8 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月速報)6 雇用統計(1月) 10 中古住宅販売件数(2月) 7 米3年国債入札 8 雇用統計(4月)10 雇用コスト指数(10～12月期) 10 米3年国債入札 8 米10年国債入札 11 中古住宅販売件数(4月)10 米3年国債入札 11 ＣＰＩ(2月) 9 米30年国債入札 12 ＣＰＩ(4月)10 小売売上高(12月) 11 米10年国債入札 10 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月速報) 13 ＰＰＩ(4月)11 ＣＰＩ(1月) 12 ＰＰＩ(2月) 10 ＣＰＩ(3月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(5月)11 米10年国債入札 12 米30年国債入札 13 中古住宅販売件数(3月) 15 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(4月)12 中古住宅販売件数(1月) 13 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月速報) 14 ＰＰＩ(3月) 18 ネット対米証券投資(3月)12 ＰＰＩ(1月) 16 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 19 FOMC議事録(4/28・29分)12 米30年国債入札 16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(2月) 15 ネット対米証券投資(2月) 19 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(4月)17 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(2月) 17 FOMC(17・18日) 16 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 21 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(5月)17 FOMC議事録(1/27・28分) 17 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(2月) 16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(3月) 22 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月確報)18 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(1月) 17 米20年国債入札 21 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(3月) 25 経常収支(10～12月期)18 ネット対米証券投資(12月) 18 ネット対米証券投資(1月) 22 米20年国債入札 26 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(3月)18 米20年国債入札 19 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 24 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月確報) 28 個人所得・消費支出(4月)18 住宅着工・許可件数(11月) 24 米2年国債入札 27 米5年国債入札 28 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期暫定)18 住宅着工・許可件数(12月) 25 米5年国債入札 27 米2年国債入札 29シカゴＰＭＩ指数(5月)18 耐久財受注(12月) 26 米7年国債入札 28 FOMC(28・29日)19 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(2月) 27 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月確報) 28 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(2月)19 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(1月) 27 個人所得・消費支出(2月) 28 米7年国債入札20 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(2月確報) 27 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期確定) 30 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(4月)20 新築住宅販売件数(11月) 31 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(3月) 30 個人所得・消費支出(3月)20 新築住宅販売件数(12月) 31 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(1月) 30 個人所得・消費支出(3月)23 製造業新規受注(12月) 30 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期速報)24 米2年国債入札 30 雇用コスト指数(1～3月期)25 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(12月)25 米5年国債入札26 個人所得・消費支出(1月)26 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期暫定)26 米7年国債入札27 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(2月)

4 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(4・5日) 18 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(18・19日) 29 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(29・30日)5 英中銀金融政策委員会(5日) 19 英中銀金融政策委員会(19日) 30 英中銀金融政策委員会(30日)
米　国
欧　州
23

===== Page 171 =====

===== Page 172 =====

© 2026 Mizuho Research & Technologies, Ltd.
2026年2月24日MHRT Global Watch 2月24日号～米企業で続くAI実装の探索。労働市場にAI投資の歪み～投資の歪み①米企業で続くAI実装の模索。労働市場にAI投資の歪み

===== Page 173 =====

実績 予想米 ワシントン誕生日（米国休場）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　米 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数（2月） 7.1 7.0米 鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） 0.7 0.4米 設備稼働率　（1月） ％ 76.2 76.5米 耐久財受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 ▲ 2.0米 住宅着工件数（12月） 万戸（年率） 140.4 130.9米 バーFRB理事、ニューヨーク企業エコノミスト協会で「AIと労働市場」について講演米 新規失業保険申請件数（2月14日） 万人 20.6 22.5米 FOMC議事録（1/27・28分）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　欧 ユーロ圏鉱工業生産（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 ▲ 1.5欧 ユーロ圏製造業ＰＭＩ（速報値）（2月） 50.8 50.0日 ＧＤＰ（1次速報値）（Q4）前期比年率（％）0.2 1.6日 輸出（1月） 前年比（％） 16.8 12.0日 輸入（1月） 前年比（％） ▲ 2.5 3.0日 特別国会召集日 機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（12月） 前月比（％） 19.1 4.5日 全国消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.0 2.0日 天皇誕生日（日本休場）

経済指標
米企業で高まるAI活用への期待。一方、業績改善はなお限定的で模索の局面が継続。建設分野を中心に技能・資格人材の不足が深刻化。電力と合わせてAI普及の足かせに
日本の対中輸出は低迷継続。背景に成⾧減速のほか、内製化の動きや中国国内のデフレ圧力。日本企業は価格競争を回避し、高付加価値化で実質輸出を維持する戦略
注目点②中国向け輸出の構造変化と日本企業の適応
足許の経済・金融状況と注目ポイント
2
（注）予想はLSEG、ブルームバーグが取りまとめた予想コンセンサス（出所）LSEG、ブルームバーグより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2026. 2. 24
鉱工業生産は市場予想対比上振れ。旺盛なAI投資需要に国内回帰の動きも相まって広範な範囲で生産が拡大。住宅着工は低水準ながら底堅い結果。新規失業保険申請件数も小幅ながら改善米国足許の経済・金融状況（総合評価）鉱工業生産指数は一進一退の動きが継続。好調なハイテク分野に対して、輸送機械やエネルギー多消費産業の低迷が重石に。一方で製造業PMIは予想を上回る改善。財政支出効果が表れつつある模様欧州中国で春節がスタート。政府は連休中の移動人口が過去最高を更新する見通しと発表。海外旅行も増加が見込まれており、人気の渡航先はタイ・マレーシア・ベトナム。各国は中国人観光客の回復に期待中国/APAC実質GDPは2四半期ぶりのプラス成⾧も力強さを欠く結果。中国向けなど輸出の伸び悩みが下押し。1月は対中輸出が急増。ただし春節の時期ズレによる一時的な要因。基調の弱さは変わらず日本

注目点①米企業で続くAI実装の模索。労働市場にAI投資の歪み
先週（2/16～2/24）発表の主な経済指標
②
①

===== Page 174 =====

今週発表される経済指標
（注）予想はLSEGが取りまとめた予想コンセンサス。矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成3
日付 実績 予想2/24 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（2月21日） 前年比（％） - - 7.22/24 (火)米国カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数（2月） - 87.0 84.52/24 (火)米国S&P/ケース・シラー住宅価格（20都市）（12月） 前年比（％） - 1.4 1.42/25 (水) ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（改定値）（1月） 前年比（％） - 1.7 1.72/25 (水)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（改定値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（1月） 前年比（％） - 2.2 2.22/25 (水)タイ タイ金融政策決定会合2/26 (木) 米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月21日） 万人 - 21.5 20.62/27 (金) 日本 鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） - 5.3 ▲ 0.12/27 (金) 日本百貨店・スーパー販売額（1月） 前年比（％） - - 1.0 ↓2/27 (金) 日本新設住宅着工戸数（1月） 前年比（％） - ▲ 1.6 ▲ 1.32/27 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（総合）（2月） 前年比（％） - - 1.52/27 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）　（2月） 前年比（％） - 1.7 2.02/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） - 2.6 3.02/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（1月）前月比（％） - 0.3 0.52/27 (金)米国生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前年比（％） - 3.0 3.32/27 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月）前月比（％） - 0.3 0.72/27 (金)米国シカゴ地区購買部協会景気指数（ＰＭＩ）（2月） - 52.8 54.02/27 (金)米国企業収益(税引後・速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）- - 4.73/2 (月) 米国 ＩＳＭ製造業指数（2月） - 51.8 52.63/2 (月)中国 財新製造業ＰＭＩ（2月） - - 50.3

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 175 =====

企業数 売上
020406080
～5 5～9 10～19 20～99 100～999 1000～
（％）
（人、従業員規模）
3 9 1397 91 88
020406080100
24年Q1決算 25年Q1決算 26年Q1決算
（％）
（決算期）
言及なし
言及あり
米国：大企業を中心にAI活用に対する関心が高まる中、業績改善への模索が継続大企業の約半数がAI関連求人を募集。企業規模が大きいほどAI活用に関心― 大企業の企業数シェアは0.2％だが、売上高では約6割を占めており、AI実装による経済全体への波及効果は相応に大―AI実装への関心が高まる一方、AIによる業績改善を公表している大企業の割合は現時点で1割程度（成功事例は電話対応・チェック・システム開発業務での効率化・コスト削減等）。業績改善へ試行錯誤の局面が継続
4
企業規模別のシェア、AIで業績改善した大企業の割合
（注）AI効果の開示に関する判定はChat GPTによる。集計対象はダウ・ジョーンズ総合平均（65社）（出所）米国商務省、各社決算より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

AI関連求人を出している企業の割合（規模別）
（出所）Indeedより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
1.4
3.3
23.4
31.9
49.9
0 20 40 60
下位0～50％
下位50～80％
下位80～90％
上位5％
上位1％
（企業規模）
（％）
企業規模が大きいほどにAI関連求人を出す企業の割合が多い
企業数全体に占める大企業の割合は非常に小さいが、売上は6割を占める
企業数・売上のシェア（規模別）
AIで業績が改善したことに言及する大企業の割合
AIによる業績改善は徐々に拡大も、足もとでは1割程度
注目点①米企業で続くAI実装の模索。労働市場にAI投資の歪み

===== Page 176 =====

0102030405060
技能・資格不足無断欠勤・早期離職就労要件未充足薬物検査不合格現場への通勤が不可
（回答割合、％）
▲0.0
▲6.1
▲1.4▲0.91.22.12.9
▲7▲6▲5▲4▲3▲2▲101234
全体 工業建築住宅建築その他工事設備工事（電気・空調等）
商業建築（DC含む）
電力・通信建設
（％）
米国：建設技能人材の不足がAI利活用の拡大ペースを抑制するおそれ移民抑制もあって人手不足が深刻な建設関連業界だが、業務によっても採用意欲にバラツキ―2025年通年で見た建設業の雇用者数は、工業建設や住宅建設で減少する一方、商業建設（DC含む）や設備工事業（電気、配管、空調等）で増加。活発なデータセンター投資を受けて、特定の技能人材に対する需要が高まっている模様建設業では「技能・資格不足」が喫緊の課題―DC建設に欠かせない設備工事業（電気、配管、空調等）では高い技術水準や資格要件が求められるため、一部企業で技能人材育成に本腰を入れる動き。電力に加え、建設技能労働者の不足がAI普及を阻害する可能性

5（出所）米国労働省より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
建設業の雇用者の変化（2024年12月→25年12月） 人員補充が困難な理由（建設技能職の労働力調査2025）
（注）複数回答可（出所）AGC、NCCERより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
DC建設に関連する人材のニーズが増加 技能・資格不足が喫緊の課題建設技能人材の育成が重要に
注目点①米企業で続くAI実装の模索。労働市場にAI投資の歪み

===== Page 177 =====

輸出数量
実質輸出
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
21/1 22/1 23/1 24/1 25/1 26/1
（2020年＝100）
輸出価格
輸出数量▲ 10%
▲ 5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
23/1 23/7 24/1 24/7 25/1 25/7 26/1
（前年比）
日本：春節で一時的に増加も、中国向け輸出数量は低迷継続
6
1月の輸出金額は前年比＋16.8％と3年ぶりの高い伸び― 輸出数量が同＋8.9％と大きく伸びたことが主因。米国・EU・中国など幅広い国・地域で前年を上回る結果― 中国向け輸出数量は同＋22.4％と大幅増。春節の時期ズレで1月の営業日が25年に比べ多かったことによる一時的な動きで中国向け輸出数量は低迷継続との見立て中国向け実質輸出は横ばい圏を維持。数量減を付加価値増で賄っている格好― 根強いデフレ圧力のもと、現地企業との価格競争を回避すべく、輸出品目を高付加価値品にシフトしている模様
（出所） 財務省「貿易統計」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成

主要国・地域別輸出数量中国向け実質輸出の動向
（注） 実質輸出の26年1月分データが公表前のため、25年12月データ分まで掲載（出所）財務省「貿易統計」、日本銀行「実質輸出入の動向」より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
中国向けの大幅増が押し上げ春節時期のズレによる一時的な動き
輸出数量に対して底堅い実質輸出高付加価値化で数量減の影響を減殺
注目点②中国向け輸出の構造変化と日本企業の適応

===== Page 178 =====

▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
25
2001～2008
2011～2019
2022～2024
2001～2008
2011～2019
2022～2024
2001～2008
2011～2019
2022～2024
世界向け輸出 中国向け輸出 ASEAN5向け輸出
現地物価との相対価格
日本の輸出シェア
現地の貿易依存度
現地の実質GDP
日本の実質輸出
（前年比平均、％）
日本：対中輸出伸び悩みの要因は、日本の輸出シェア低下、中国の内製化、デフレ圧力
7
日本の実質財輸出は2010年代以降伸び悩み。とりわけ、中国向け輸出は2020年代に入り大幅マイナスに― 要因別に見ると、日本の輸出シェア低下が主因。特に2020年代の中国・ASEAN5でシェア低下が著しく、両地域間の経済関係深化で日本企業の競争環境が悪化している可能性。中国からASEAN5への輸出ドライブも影響している模様中国向け輸出の弱さには、中国の景気減速に加え、内製化やデフレ圧力も影響― 中国では2010年代以降に貿易依存度が低下しており、内製化が急速に進展。また、日本の財輸出物価に比べ現地の物価が相対的に低下しており、中国国内のデフレ圧力により日本製品の価格競争力が悪化していることを示唆

（注） 現地の貿易依存度＝現地の財輸入額÷現地の名目GDP。日本の輸出シェア＝日本の財輸出額÷現地の財輸入額。現地物価との相対価格＝現地のGDPデフレータ―×為替レート÷日本の財輸出デフレーター。リーマンショックやコロナショックなど、数値の振れが激しい一部期間を除く。各要因の合計と実質財輸出は、計算過程で発生する交差項により必ずしも一致しない。中国の2020年の名目輸入額は名目輸出額から概算（出所）IMF、内閣府より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
景気減速や日本の輸出シェア低下に加え、内製化・デフレも下押し要因に
日本の実質財輸出の要因分解
中国の輸出攻勢が日本のシェアを奪った可能性
注目点②中国向け輸出の構造変化と日本企業の適応

===== Page 179 =====

0 10 20 30 40 50規制執行政府の財政支援税関手続き市場アクセス政府調達ライセンス供与
（％）
国内企業より優遇されている
国内企業と同等に扱われている国内企業と同等に扱われていない
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
中国：日系企業の76％が「国内企業と同等の扱い」と認識。2026年投資計画は増減が拮抗中国日本商会による日系企業へのアンケートによれば、事業環境について62％の企業が「非常に満足／満足」と回答補助金や優遇措置を受けている企業は48％に上り、76％の企業が「国内企業と同等に扱われている」と認識― ただ、21％の企業は「同等に扱われていない」と回答。規制執行や政府の財政支援などに不公平感も2026年の中国での投資計画については、「増加させる」企業と「減らす」企業がともに2割程度と拮抗― 中長期的な事業継続を見据える企業がある一方、方針・戦略の見直しで段階的な縮小や撤退を検討する企業も― 個別業種をみると、自動車では投資を「減らす」との回答が多い。中国国内での販売競争激化が影響している可能性

8（出所） 中国日本商会より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
中国における政策や執行措置の恩恵（2025年7～12月）中国における日系企業の2026年投資計画
（出所） 中国日本商会より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
「国内企業と同等の扱い」とする声が多いものの、法規制や補助金に不公平感も
【「同等に扱われていない」と思う分野】
大幅に増加させる増加させる前年同様
前年より減らす投資しない
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
全体電気・電子機械一般機械自動車化学鉄鋼・金属商社運輸
自動車の投資意欲は弱め。競争激化が影響か
注目点②中国向け輸出の構造変化と日本企業の適応

===== Page 180 =====

米国：IEEPA関税に違憲判断も、トランプ政権は即座に122条を「つなぎ」とする代替措置を発表米連邦最高裁判所は2月20日、相互関税や対中国・カナダ・メキシコ関税の根拠法となっていた国際緊急経済権限法（IEEPA）が大統領に関税を課す権限を与えていないと判断― 徴収済の関税の返金には言及がなく、詳細は不明だが、今後は還付を巡る法廷闘争が起こる可能性も今次判断を受け、政権は1974年通商法122条に基づく一律10％関税の賦課を発表（期間は最長150日間、その後15％への引き上げを表明）― 今後は122条を「つなぎ」とする間に232条・301条の調査を進め、IEEPAの代替となる関税賦課を企図か
9
今回の違憲判断の対象となる関税代替的な関税措置の概要
（出所） ホワイトハウス、JETRO資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
関税率対象根拠法
10～41％相互関税国際緊急経済権限法（IEEPA） 10％（24％は適用延期）中国
35％カナダ25％メキシコ
50％鉄鋼・アルミ1962年通商拡大法232条 15～25％自動車・同部品50％銅 25％半導体

違憲判断
（出所）ホワイトハウスより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
232条（鉄鋼・アルミ、自動車など）⇒適用中
違憲判決（2/20）
IEEPA122条（最大15％・150日間）⇒2/24 0:01 AMより適用301条
301条・232条の調査を継続
既存の品目別関税（232条）は維持2/24より大統領権限に基づく一律10％関税を賦課（期間は最長150日、対象外品目あり）複数の301条調査およびその他の調査の開始
122条を「つなぎ」としつつ、232条・301条の調査を進め、IEEPAの代替となる関税を賦課へ
国別関税
品目別関税

===== Page 181 =====

米国：迅速な還付が無く、代替措置が実現すれば、米国経済への影響は限定的かこれまでに米国政府が得た関税収入は約1,800億ドル（GDP比0.6％）、うちIEEPAは約1,300億ドル（同0.4％）― 仮に還付が順調に進めば、相応の景気浮揚効果が見込まれるが、訴訟などによって遅滞した場合は大きな効果は見込みにくい― また、IEEPA関税を除いた場合の米国の平均関税率は半減となるが、代替措置が実現した場合は大きく水準が変わらない可能性も（この場合、今次違憲判断が米国経済に与える影響は限定的か）
10
関税収入額（2025年） 平均関税率の推移
（出所）Tax Foundationより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
0.00%0.05%0.10%0.15%0.20%0.25%0.30%0102030405060708090金額GDP比（右軸）
（10億ドル）
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
2022年 2026年 2026年（除くIEEPA）
（％） 代替措置によって大幅な平均関税率の低下は実現しない可能性も

（出所）Tax Foundationより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
IEEPAを除けば半減
232条301条122条

===== Page 182 =====

欧州：生産は年間を通じて横ばい圏。エネルギーコスト高止まりと対中競争激化が足かせに12月の鉱工業生産指数は前月比▲1.4％と低下。一進一退が続いており、未だ復調の兆し見えず―2025年を通じて生産活動は横ばい圏の推移― ハイテク分野は好調だが、輸送機械やエネルギー多消費産業などが低迷貿易黒字減少の主因は対中赤字の増加。輸送機械や化学など主要産業の生産下押し要因に― 対中貿易収支は、コロナ前と比較してGDP比▲0.7％Pt（約▲1660億ユーロ）悪化。EV・PHEVや基礎化学品の輸入増と、自動車等の輸出減が背景
11
（注） 除くアイルランドはみずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズが計算（出所）Eurostatより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
ユーロ圏：鉱工業生産指数ユーロ圏：貿易収支と対中赤字拡大の要因
（出所）Eurostatより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
中国
米国
その他
合計
▲ 2.0▲ 1.5▲ 1.0▲ 0.50.00.51.01.52.02.53.0
19 25

（GDP比、％）
（年）
▲1.7▲1.0
輸送機械
有機化学
電気機械一般機械
その他
▲ 0.8▲ 0.7▲ 0.6▲ 0.5▲ 0.4▲ 0.3▲ 0.2▲ 0.10.0
2025
（2019年差、％Pt）
鉱工業生産
除くアイルランド
輸送機械
エネルギー多消費産業
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
23 24 25
（2019年=100）
（年） 対中赤字拡大
生産は2025年を通じて底ばい

===== Page 183 =====

欧州：アジア・日本と通商・経済安全保障で連携強化の動きEUはアジア諸国との貿易交渉を加速― 直近ではインドネシア・インドと合意に至ったほか、タイ・フィリピン・マレーシアとも交渉再開。シェフチョビッチ欧州委員（通商担当）は、これら3カ国と2027年までの貿易協定締結を目指すと発言（2025年9月）欧州委員会は日本との関係強化にも注力。経済安保分野等で連携を強化する姿勢― 欧州委員による2025年の面談・会合数は、非EU加盟国の中で日本が突出。昨年7月には「日EU競争力アライアンス」立ち上げで合意。貿易、経済安全保障、イノベーション・脱炭素といった分野での連携拡大を模索
12
（出所） 欧州委員会、各種報道より、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成
EU・アジア間のFTA・EPA締結状況 欧州委員の非EU加盟国との面談・会合数（2025年）
（出所）Euractivより、みずほリサーチ&テクノロジーズ作成
0102030405060708090
日本米国モルドバ英国カナダスイス中国エチオピアマレーシアインド

（件数）状況国名 2014年FTA締結シンガポール2015年FTA締結ベトナム2025年9月CEPA締結インドネシア2026年1月FTA締結インド2023年9月交渉再開タイ 2024年10月交渉再開フィリピン2025年1月交渉再開マレーシア
↑締結済↓交渉中
EUは日本との連携に積極的

===== Page 184 =====

▲100102030405024 25
その他ASEAN欧州米国中国合計
(前年比、％)
(年）05010015020025017 21 25NIEsASEAN5合計
(年)
(百万人)
02004006008001,0001,2001,400
中国 韓国 欧州
(米ドル)
02040608010012014019 22 25
（2019年＝100）
（年）
アジア：インバウンドは回復続くも国・地域により濃淡。収入面では高単価市場の獲得が左右ASEAN＋NIEsのインバウンドは持ち直しが続くが、域内合計ではなおコロナ前水準に未達。回復の勢いは国・地域で濃淡―ASEANは、ベトナムは堅調に拡大する一方、タイは国境紛争の影響で伸び悩み。NIEsでは、2025年11月の対日渡航制限を受け中国からの観光客の一部が韓国にシフトした可能性。流入元別では中国の回復が鈍い一方、欧州が下支え人数の回復に加え、1人あたり支出の拡大が観光収入の拡大を左右。ベトナムは高単価市場の獲得で先行― ベトナムは観光収入も堅調に推移。ビザ緩和や体験型観光の強化が、滞在日数の長い欧州客の獲得に奏功。単価の高い顧客のニーズにあった観光政策が今後の成長を左右

13
（注）右図は香港を除く（出所）CEICより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
NIEs+ASEAN5:インバウンド人数ベトナム：観光収入
（注）「欧州」はベトナムへのインバウンド人数の多いドイツ、フランス、イギリスの平均値（出所）CEIC、べトナム統計局より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
欧州からの観光客は支出額が高い
【インバウンド人数】 【流入国・地域別】【国籍別1人あたり支出（2024年）】【観光収入】
観光収入は堅調に拡大回復が続くがコロナ前水準には未達
中国からの回復は鈍いが欧州が下支え

===== Page 185 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（1）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成14
日付 実績1/27 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（1月19日） 前年比（％） 7.1 5.51/27 (火)米国カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数（1月） 84.5 94.2 ↑1/27 (火)米国S&P/ケース・シラー住宅価格（20都市）（11月） 前年比（％） 1.4 1.31/27 (火)米国FOMC（27・28日） 　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　1/27 (火)ブラジル ブラジル金融政策決定会合（27･28日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　1/29 (木) 日本 消費者態度指数（1月） 37.9 37.21/29 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（1月19日） 万人 20.9 21.01/29 (木)米国製造業新規受注（11月） 前月比（％） 2.7 ▲ 1.21/29 (木)米国貿易収支（11月） 10億ドル ▲ 56.8 ▲ 29.21/29 (木)米国労働生産性（改定値）（Q3） 前期比年率（％）4.9 4.91/29 (木)米国単位労働コスト（改定値）（Q3） 前期比年率（％）▲ 1.9 ▲ 1.91/30 (金) 日本 鉱工業生産（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.1 ▲ 2.71/30 (金) 日本百貨店・スーパー販売額（12月） 前年比（％） 2.0 5.01/30 (金) 日本新設住宅着工戸数（12月） 前年比（％） ▲ 1.3 ▲ 8.51/30 (金) 日本完全失業率（12月） ％ 2.6 2.61/30 (金) 日本有効求人倍率（12月） 倍 1.2 1.21/30 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（総合）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.5 2.01/30 (金) 日本東京都区部消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）　（1月） 前年比（％） 2.0 2.31/30 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（12月） 前年比（％） 3.0 3.01/30 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（12月）前月比（％） 0.5 0.21/30 (金)米国生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月） 前年比（％） 3.3 3.1 ↑1/30 (金)米国 生産者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月）前月比（％） 0.7 0.01/30 (金)米国シカゴ地区購買部協会景気指数（ＰＭＩ）（1月） 54.0 42.7 ↓1/30 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏ＧＤＰ（1次速報値）（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.3 0.31/31 (土) 中国 製造業ＰＭＩ（1月） 49.3 50.11/31 (土)中国非製造業ＰＭＩ（1月） 49.4 50.22/2 (月) 米国 ＩＳＭ製造業指数（1月） 52.6 47.92/2 (月)中国 財新製造業ＰＭＩ（1月） 50.3 50.1

15%のままで据え置き
経済指標等 前回

===== Page 186 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（2）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成15
日付 実績2/3 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（1月26日） 前年比（％） 6.7 7.12/4 (水) 米国 ＩＳＭ非製造業指数（1月） 53.8 53.8 ↓2/4 (水)米国ADP民間雇用者数（1月） 前月差（万人） 2.2 3.7 ↓2/4 (水)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏総合ＰＭＩ（確報値）（1月） 51.3 51.52/4 (水)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.7 2.0 ↑2/4 (水)ユーロ圏ユーロ圏消費者物価指数（速報値）（除く食品・エネルギー・酒・タバコ）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.2 2.32/4 (水)欧州 ＥＣＢ政策理事会（4・5日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/4 (水)中国 財新サービス業ＰＭＩ（1月） 52.3 52.02/5 (木) 米国 新規失業保険申請件数（1月26日） 万人 23.1 20.92/5 (木)米国非農業部門求人件数（JOLTS）（12月） 前月差（万件） 654.2 692.8 ↓2/5 (木)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏小売売上高（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.5 0.1 ↓2/5 (木)英国 英中銀金融政策委員会（5日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/6 (金) 日本 実質消費支出（二人以上の全世帯）（12月） 前年比（％） ▲ 2.6 2.92/6 (金)米国 ミシガン大消費者信頼感指数（速報値）（2月） 57.3 56.42/6 (金)インド インド金融政策決定会合（4-6日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/9 (月) 日本 経常収支（12月） 億円 7,288.0 36,741.02/9 (月) 日本景気ウォッチャー調査（1月） 現状判断ＤＩ 47.6 47.7 ↓

経済指標等 前回
5.25%に据え置き

===== Page 187 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（3）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成16
日付 実績2/10 (火) 米国 週間小売売上高（2月2日） 前年比（％） 6.5 6.72/10 (火)米国小売売上高（12月） 前月比（％） 0.0 0.62/10 (火)米国雇用コスト指数（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.7 0.82/11 (水) 米国 失業率 （1月） ％ 4.3 4.42/11 (水)米国非農業部門雇用者数（1月） 前月差（万人） 13.0 4.82/11 (水)米国時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（1月） 前年比（％） 3.7 3.72/11 (水)米国 時間当たり賃金（全従業員ベース）（1月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.12/11 (水)米国財政収支（1月） 10億ドル ▲ 95 ▲ 1452/11 (水)中国 消費者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 0.2 0.82/12 (木) 日本 国内企業物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.3 2.42/12 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月2日） 万人 22.9 23.22/12 (木)米国中古住宅販売戸数（1月） 万戸（年率） 391.0 427.02/13 (金) 米国 消費者物価指数（1月） 前年比（％） 2.4 2.72/13 (金)米国消費者物価指数（前月比）（1月） 前月比（％） 0.2 0.32/13 (金)米国消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.5 2.62/13 (金)米国 消費者物価指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（1月）前月比（％） 0.3 0.22/13 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏ＧＤＰ（2次速報値）（Q4） 前期比（％） 0.3 0.32/16 (月) 日本 ＧＤＰ（1次速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）0.2 ▲ 2.32/16 (月) 日本設備稼働率（12月） 前月比（％） 1.3 ▲ 5.32/16 (月)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏鉱工業生産（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 0.3

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 188 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（4）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成17
日付 実績2/17 (火) 米国 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数（2月） 7.1 7.72/18 (水) 日本 貿易収支（貿易統計）（1月） 億円 ▲ 11,527 1,135 ↑2/18 (水) 日本輸出（1月） 前年比（％） 16.8 5.12/18 (水) 日本輸入（1月） 前年比（％） ▲ 2.5 5.2 ↓2/18 (水)米国 週間小売売上高（2月9日） 前年比（％） 7.2 6.52/18 (水)米国鉱工業生産（1月） 前月比（％） 0.7 0.22/18 (水)米国設備稼働率　（1月） ％ 76.2 75.72/18 (水)米国耐久財受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 1.4 5.4 ↑2/18 (水)米国耐久財受注（除く輸送機器）（12月） 前月比（％） 0.9 0.5 ↑2/18 (水)米国ネット対米長期証券投資（12月） 10億ドル 28.0 206.6 ↓2/18 (水)米国住宅着工件数（11月） 万戸（年率） 132.2 127.22/18 (水)米国住宅着工許可件数（11月） 万戸（年率） 138.8 141.12/18 (水)インドネシア インドネシア金融政策決定会合（18･19日）　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　　2/19 (木) 日本 機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（12月） 前年比（％） 16.8 ▲ 6.42/19 (木) 日本 機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（12月）前月比（％） 19.1 ▲ 11.02/19 (木)米国 新規失業保険申請件数（2月9日） 万人 20.6 22.92/19 (木)米国貿易収支（12月） 10億ドル ▲ 70.3 ▲ 53.02/19 (木)米国中古住宅販売仮契約指数（1月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.8 ▲ 7.4 ↑2/19 (木)米国フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数（2月） 16.3 12.62/19 (木)米国景気先行指数（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.32/19 (木)フィリピン フィリピン金融政策決定会合

4.75%に据え置き
経済指標等 前回
0.25%引き下げて4.25%

===== Page 189 =====

過去1か月に発表された経済指標（5）
（注）矢印は前回公表値の改訂（↑:上方修正、↓:下方修正）（出所）LSEGより、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成18
日付 実績2/20 (金) 日本 全国消費者物価（総合）（1月） 前年比（％） 1.5 2.12/20 (金) 日本全国消費者物価（除く生鮮食品）（1月） 前年比（％） 2.0 2.42/20 (金)米国 ミシガン大消費者信頼感指数（確報値）（2月） 56.6 57.32/20 (金)米国個人所得（12月） 前月比（％） 0.3 0.42/20 (金)米国消費支出（12月） 前月比（％） 0.4 0.42/20 (金)米国実質消費支出（12月） 前月比（％） 0.1 0.22/20 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（12月） 前年比（％） 2.9 2.82/20 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（12月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.22/20 (金)米国個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月） 前年比（％） 3.0 2.82/20 (金)米国 個人消費支出（PCE）価格指数（除く食品・エネルギー）（12月）前月比（％） 0.4 0.22/20 (金)米国新築住宅販売戸数（11月） 万戸（年率） 75.8 65.62/20 (金)米国ＧＤＰ（速報値）（Q4） 前期比年率（％）1.4 4.42/20 (金)ユーロ圏 ユーロ圏総合ＰＭＩ（速報値）（2月） 51.9 51.32/23 (月) 米国 製造業新規受注（12月） 前月比（％） ▲ 0.7 2.72/23 (月)ドイツ 独ｉｆｏ企業景況感指数（2月） 88.6 87.6

経済指標等 前回

===== Page 190 =====

巻末資料 日本 四半期スケジュール（2～5月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2月 3月 4月 5月2 新車販売台数(1月) 2 新車販売台数(2月) 1 日銀短観(3月調査) 1 消費者物価(4月都区部)6 家計調査(12月) 3 労働力調査(1月) 1 新車販売台数(3月) 1 新車販売台数(4月)6 景気動向指数(12月) 3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 7 家計調査(2月) 7 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨9 毎月勤労統計(12月速報) 3 一般職業紹介(1月) 7 景気動向指数(2月) 8 毎月勤労統計(3月速報)9 景気ウォッチャー調査(1月) 3 法人企業統計調査(10～12月期) 8 国際収支(2月速報) 12 景気動向指数(3月)9 国際収支(12月速報) 4 消費動向調査(2月) 8 景気ウォッチャー調査(3月) 13 国際収支(3月速報)10 マネーストック(1月速報) 9 景気動向指数(1月) 8 毎月勤労統計(2月速報) 13 景気ウォッチャー調査(4月)12 企業物価指数(1月) 9 国際収支(1月速報) 9 消費動向調査(3月) 14 マネーストック(4月速報)16 設備稼働率(12月) 9 景気ウォッチャー調査(2月) 10 企業物価指数(3月) 15 企業物価指数(4月)16 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期1次速報) 9 毎月勤労統計(1月速報) 13 マネーストック(3月速報) 21 貿易統計(4月)17 第3次産業活動指数(12月) 10 家計調査(1月) 15 機械受注統計(2月) 22 消費者物価(4月全国)18 貿易統計(1月) 10 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期2次速報) 22 貿易統計(3月) 29 消費者物価(5月都区部)19 機械受注統計(12月) 10 マネーストック(2月速報) 24 消費者物価(3月全国) 29 労働力調査(4月)20 消費者物価(1月全国) 11 企業物価指数(2月) 27 日銀金融政策決定会合(27・28日) 29 一般職業紹介(4月)27 消費者物価(2月都区部) 12 法人企業景気予測調査(1～3月期) 28 日銀｢経済･物価情勢の展望」(基本的見解)27 商業動態統計(1月速報) 17 第3次産業活動指数(1月) 28 日銀総裁定例記者会見27 鉱工業生産(1月速報) 18 貿易統計(2月) 28 労働力調査(3月)27 住宅着工統計(1月) 18 資金循環統計(10～12月期速報) 28 一般職業紹介(3月)18 日銀金融政策決定会合(18・19日) 30 住宅着工統計(3月)19 設備稼働率(1月) 30 消費動向調査(4月)19 日銀総裁定例記者会見19 機械受注統計(1月)24 消費者物価(2月全国)25 日銀金融政策決定会合議事要旨31 労働力調査(2月)31 消費者物価(3月都区部)31 商業動態統計(2月速報)31 鉱工業生産(2月速報)31 住宅着工統計(2月)31 一般職業紹介(2月)

日 本
19

===== Page 191 =====

巻末資料 米国・欧州 四半期スケジュール（2～5月 ）
（注）予定は変更の可能性があります（出所）各種資料より、みずほリサーチ＆テクノロジーズ作成
2月 3月 4月 5月2 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(1月) 2 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(2月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(3月) 1 製造業ＩＳＭ指数(4月)4 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月) 4 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月) 2 貿易収支(2月) 5 貿易収支(3月)5 貿易収支(12月) 5 貿易収支(1月) 3 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月) 5 非製造業ＩＳＭ指数(11月)5 労働生産性(10～12月期暫定) 5 労働生産性(10～12月期改定) 3 雇用統計(3月) 7 労働生産性(1～3月期暫定)6 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(2月速報) 6 雇用統計(2月) 7 FOMC議事録(3/17・18分) 8 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月速報)6 雇用統計(1月) 10 中古住宅販売件数(2月) 7 米3年国債入札 8 雇用統計(4月)10 雇用コスト指数(10～12月期) 10 米3年国債入札 8 米10年国債入札 11 中古住宅販売件数(4月)10 米3年国債入札 11 ＣＰＩ(2月) 9 米30年国債入札 12 ＣＰＩ(4月)10 小売売上高(12月) 11 米10年国債入札 10 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月速報) 13 ＰＰＩ(4月)11 ＣＰＩ(1月) 12 ＰＰＩ(2月) 10 ＣＰＩ(3月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(5月)11 米10年国債入札 12 米30年国債入札 13 中古住宅販売件数(3月) 15 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(4月)12 中古住宅販売件数(1月) 13 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月速報) 14 ＰＰＩ(3月) 18 ネット対米証券投資(3月)12 ＰＰＩ(1月) 16 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 15 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 19 FOMC議事録(4/28・29分)12 米30年国債入札 16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(2月) 15 ネット対米証券投資(2月) 19 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(4月)17 ニューヨーク連銀製造業業況指数(2月) 17 FOMC(17・18日) 16 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(4月) 21 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(5月)17 FOMC議事録(1/27・28分) 17 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(2月) 16 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(3月) 22 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(5月確報)18 鉱工業生産・設備稼働率(1月) 17 米20年国債入札 21 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(3月) 25 経常収支(10～12月期)18 ネット対米証券投資(12月) 18 ネット対米証券投資(1月) 22 米20年国債入札 26 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(3月)18 米20年国債入札 19 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(3月) 24 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(4月確報) 28 個人所得・消費支出(4月)18 住宅着工・許可件数(11月) 24 米2年国債入札 27 米5年国債入札 28 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期暫定)18 住宅着工・許可件数(12月) 25 米5年国債入札 27 米2年国債入札 29シカゴＰＭＩ指数(5月)18 耐久財受注(12月) 26 米7年国債入札 28 FOMC(28・29日)19 フィラデルフィア連銀製造業業況指数(2月) 27 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(3月確報) 28 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(2月)19 中古住宅販売仮契約指数(1月) 27 個人所得・消費支出(2月) 28 米7年国債入札20 ミシガン大学消費者信頼感指数(2月確報) 27 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期確定) 30 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(4月)20 新築住宅販売件数(11月) 31 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(3月) 30 個人所得・消費支出(3月)20 新築住宅販売件数(12月) 31 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(1月) 30 個人所得・消費支出(3月)23 製造業新規受注(12月) 30 ＧＤＰ(1～3月期速報)24 米2年国債入札 30 雇用コスト指数(1～3月期)25 カンファレンスボード消費者信頼感指数(12月)25 米5年国債入札26 個人所得・消費支出(1月)26 ＧＤＰ(10～12月期暫定)26 米7年国債入札27 シカゴＰＭＩ指数(2月)

4 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(4・5日) 18 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(18・19日) 29 ＥＣＢ政策理事会(29・30日)5 英中銀金融政策委員会(5日) 19 英中銀金融政策委員会(19日) 30 英中銀金融政策委員会(30日)
米　国
欧　州
20

===== Page 192 =====

みずほリポート政権発足1年からみえた『トランプ流国家資本主義』の正体～日本企業が生き抜くための「攻め」と「守り」の戦略～（2026年1月20日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2026年1月作成
URLQRコード
ポイント①新自由主義の反動から生まれた『トランプ流国家資本主義』とは？ポイント② 『トランプ流国家資本主義』は米経済・ビジネスをどう変えるのか？ポイント③新たな米資本主義体制の中で、日系企業に求められる対応は？ポイント④ポスト・トランプで国家資本主義はどう変わるか？レポート
大統領権限を活用し経済安保分野の成⾧を促す一方、政策不確実性や物価高を助⾧。日本企業には同分野で好機だが、情報収集やコスト対応等が課題
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2026-0004/index.html
21

===== Page 193 =====

みずほリポート2026年の米経済は雇用を伴う成⾧へ回帰～財政政策と対米投資が国内需要を喚起～（2025年12月26日発刊）
調査部レポートのご紹介 PR
2025年12月作成
URLQRコードポイント① 2025年は『雇用なき成⾧』ポイント② 2026年は『雇用を伴う成⾧』へポイント③ 迫る中間選挙レポート
トランプ政権が各国と結んだ対米投資案件は、徐々に実行段階へ。大規模な減税政策も内需の押し上げ要因となり、小規模企業の雇用マインドも上向きに
https://www.mizuho-rt.co.jp/business/research/report/2025-0164/index.html22

===== Page 194 =====

## 031_MOF_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

財政統計通報

（第 8 號） 
財政部統計處  
撰稿人：林芝螢助理研究員 
115 年 5 月 14 日  聯絡人：侯永盛 科長 
聯絡電話：(02)23228346  
房屋稅開徵戶數近 10 年增近 2 成，114 年女性納稅義務人占比 45.2%再創新高 
1.114 年房屋稅開徵戶數包含住家 、營業用途等在內共計 1,184 萬 戶，較104 年增加 185 萬 戶，
10 年來增幅近 2 成，主要因持續推動都市更新、新建房屋增加；此外，隨少子女化、晚婚，
單人或小宅型態的戶數增加，亦推升房屋稅籍戶 數。以納稅義務人性別觀察，女性占比升至
45.2%，為歷年新高，兩性差距縮小至 9.6 個百分點之最低水準；按年齡別觀察，房屋稅納
稅義務人以中高齡族群為主，60 歲以上族群占近 5 成，主要係隨房屋持有人年齡增長，致
整體結構呈現高齡化趨勢 。就性別與年齡級距觀察 ， 各年齡層均以男性納稅人占比較 高，惟
隨年齡增長，女性經濟能力提高及財產分配型態轉變，女性占比隨之上升，高點落於 60-69
歲年齡層，占 4 成 7。

單位：萬戶；%；百分點 
年度 
開徵戶數 
合計 男性  女性   (1)-(2) 占比(1) 占比(2) 
104 年 999  560  56.0  440  44.0  12.0  
109 年 1,082  601  55.5  482  44.5  10.0  
114 年 1,184  649  54.8  535  45.2  9.6  
17 歲以下 1.4  0.9  65.7  0.5  34.3  31.4  
18-29 歲 19  12  62.4  7  37.6  24.8  
30-39 歲 91  54  58.8  37  41.2  17.6  
40-49 歲 193  107  55.1  87  44.9  10.2  
50-59 歲 262  139  53.1  123  46.9  6.2  
60-69 歲 292  154  52.7  138  47.3  5.4  
70 歲以上 296  157  53.1  139  46.9  6.2  
2.受房價上升及住宅小坪數化影響，近 10 年逾 8 成縣市之平均每戶坪數呈現縮減，僅臺東、
花蓮等 4 個縣市略為成長，或因當地仍以透天厝或傳統住宅型態為主；坪數減幅較大者，依
序為金門縣 、 連江縣及澎湖縣 ，幅度約介於 8%至 12%，可能係近年離島地區建造成本上升 ，
以及單身與小家庭居住需求增加，建商主推華廈、公寓住宅有關。六都方面，114 年平均每
戶坪數以臺中市 47.3 坪最高，其次為臺南市 46.3 坪，臺北市 28.3 坪最小，亦為全國唯一跌
破 30 坪之縣市。

房屋稅開徵戶數、性別及年齡級距概況 
資料來源：財政部財政資訊中心。 
說明：資料不包含非自然人及公同共有所有權人；年齡別資料不含房屋持有者已身故而未過戶及移居國外兩年以上者，故各
年齡加總不等於合計數。 
各縣市平均每戶坪數 
單位：坪；%
縣市別 104年 114年 114-104
增減率 縣市別 104年 114年 114-104
增減率 縣市別 104年 114年 114-104
增減率
全國 42.3 40.7 -3.8 屏東縣 48.6 47.7 -1.9 臺南市 49.2 46.3 -5.8
臺東縣 38.1 39.3 3.1 新竹縣 47.6 46.2 -3.0 苗栗縣 49.4 45.8 -7.1
花蓮縣 37.2 37.7 1.4 高雄市 43.3 42.0 -3.0 臺北市 30.5 28.3 -7.2
雲林縣 47.2 47.8 1.3 新北市 33.2 32.1 -3.3 彰化縣 53.9 49.8 -7.6
嘉義市 40.0 40.1 0.3 桃園市 46.3 43.9 -5.1 澎湖縣 40.7 37.2 -8.6
新竹市 43.3 42.9 -0.8 臺中市 49.8 47.3 -5.1 連江縣 36.1 33.0 -8.7
南投縣 46.5 45.9 -1.3 基隆市 32.7 31.0 -5.1 金門縣 50.4 44.7 -11.2
嘉義縣 41.8 41.1 -1.7 宜蘭縣 46.5 44.1 -5.2

===== Page 2 =====

1

網際網路 https://www.mof.gov.tw同步發送 
下次發布日期：115 年 6 月 11 日下午 4 時

聯 絡 人： 陳 巧 芸 科 長 
電   話：02-2322-7555 
115年 4月全國賦稅收入初步統計 
一、全國賦稅收入 
（一）本月數 
4 月實徵淨額 1,895 億元，較上年同月增加 355 億元(+23.0%)。 
（二）累計數 
累計 1 至 4 月實徵淨額 8,450 億元，較上年同期增加 1,370 億元
(+19.3%)。 
（三）達成率 
累計 1 至 4 月實徵淨額占累計分配預算數 113.7%，占全年預算數
21.4%。 
圖 1 全國賦稅收入及年增率

財政部新聞稿 
115 年 5 月 12 日發布 
1,541 
3,135 
4,038 
8,768 
1,537 
4,152 4,174 
2,929 
2,066 2,644 
922 
2,989 
1,895 
-3.1 
-48.6 -50.0
305.1
-10.0 
-1.9 
19.3 
6.1 8.4 
20.5 
-9.7 
28.6 
23.0 
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
-3,000
-1,500
0
1,500
3,000
4,500
6,000
7,500
9,000
4月 5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月 1月 2月 3月 4月
%億元 全國賦稅收入 年增率
114年 115年
-50
350

===== Page 3 =====

2
二、主要稅目別變動
（一）4 月實徵淨額與上年同月比較，以證券交易稅增加 368 億元及綜合
所得稅增加 76 億元較多。
（二）累計 1 至 4 月實徵淨額與上年同期比較，以證券交易稅增加 1,035
億元、營業稅增加 317 億元及綜合所得稅增加 155 億元較多，貨物
稅則減少 123 億元。
圖 2 主要稅目別變化
(115 年 1-4 月)
1.營利事業所得稅
4 月實徵淨額負 140 億元，較上年同月減少 74 億元，累計 1 至 4 月
實徵淨額 34 億元，較上年同期減少 76 億元(-69.3%)，主因本月有大
額退稅案件，抵銷 COVID-19 及對等關稅延分期稅款陸續入帳之影
響。
2.綜合所得稅
4 月實徵淨額 570 億元，較上年同月增加 76 億元(+15.5%)，主因盈
餘分配所得扣繳稅款增加；累計 1 至 4 月實徵淨額 2,040 億元，較上
年同期增加 155 億元(+8.2%)，主因盈餘分配及薪資所得扣繳稅款成
長。
3.營業稅
(1)4月因出口暢旺、適用外銷零稅率營業人申請退稅增加 ，營業稅實

徵淨額較上年同月減少33億元，由25億元降為負8億元。
(2) 累 計 1 至 4 月 實 徵 淨 額2,241 億 元 ， 較 上 年 同 期 增 加317 億 元
(+16.4%)，主因內需穩定，資通與視聽產品、電子零組件等進口代
-76
155
317
-123
1,035
-7
60
-28
6
-69.3
8.2 16.4
-24.5
138.3
-1.3
53.1
-11.3
1.4
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
800
%億元 增減金額 年增率
營所稅 貨物稅 證交稅 關稅綜所稅 營業稅 土增稅遺產稅 牌照稅
1,200

===== Page 4 =====

3
徵稅額增加，惟適用外銷零稅率營業人申請退稅亦增，抵銷部分增
幅。
4.貨物稅
4月實徵淨額107億元，較上年同月減少37億元(-25.6%)，主因車市觀
望氣氛延續，新購汽機車及電動車之減免徵退稅增加 ，以及汽柴油
減徵幅度擴大；累計1至4月實徵淨額379億元，較上年同期減少 123
億元(-24.5%)，以車輛類減少較多。
5.證券交易稅
(1)4 月及累計 1 至 4 月上市上櫃股票平均每日成交值為 1 兆 1,410 億
元、9,755 億元，分別較上年同期(3,381 億元、3,992 億元)增 2.4
倍、1.4 倍。
(2)4 月證交稅實徵淨額 546 億元，較上年同月增加 368 億元(+2.1 倍)；
累計 1 至 4 月實徵淨額 1,783 億元，較上年同期增加 1,035 億元(+1.4
倍)。
6.關稅
4 月實徵淨額 136 億元，較上年同月減少 0.4 億元(-0.3%)；累計 1 至
4 月實徵淨額 500 億元，較上年同期減少 7 億元(-1.3%)，主因小客車

進口稅額減少。
7.遺產稅
4 月實徵淨額 75 億元，較上年同月增 44 億元(+1.4 倍)，累計 1 至 4
月實徵淨額 174 億元，較上年同期增加 60 億元(+53.1%)，主因大額
稅款案件增加。
8.土地增值稅
4 月實徵淨額 56 億元，較上年同月增加 3 億元(+4.8%)；累計 1 至 4
月實徵淨額 222 億元，較上年同期減少 28 億元(-11.3%)，主因房地
交易量及大額稅款案件減少。
9.使用牌照稅
4 月實徵淨額 374 億元，較上年同月減少 8 億元(-2.1%)；累計 1 至 4
月實徵淨額 432 億元，較上年同期增加 6 億元(+1.4%)，主因稅款入
帳時間差異所致。
（三）前 4 月主要徵起稅目實徵淨額占分配預算數之比率：
1.大於 100%者有證交稅(224%)、遺產稅(165%)、贈與稅(130%)、印花
稅(124%)、契稅(113%)、關稅(108%)、菸酒稅(105%)、牌照稅(105%)、
營業稅(104%)及貨物稅(102%)等。

2.低於 100%者有綜所稅(98%)、土增稅(84%)及營所稅(16%)等。

===== Page 5 =====

4
三、各級政府賦稅收入概況
(一)中央政府
累計 1 至 4 月中央政府賦稅
收入 (不含中央統籌分配稅
款)實徵淨額 4,715 億元(占分
配預算數 127.0%)，較上年同
期減少 17 億元(-0.4%)，雖新
版 財 政 收 支 劃 分 法開 始 施
行，營業稅劃歸中央政府 比
率大幅調降，減少 1,029 億
元(-91.1%)，惟因證交稅收大幅成長，故互抵後呈現微減。
(二)地方政府
累計 1 至 4 月地方政府賦稅收入(含中央統籌分配稅款)實徵淨額 3,365
億元(占分配預算數 102.7%)，較上年同期增加 1,441 億元(+74.9%)，主
因新版財政收支劃分法實施後，納入中央統籌分配之營業稅增加 1,424
億元(+2.0 倍)所致。
(三)中央特種基金
累計 1 至 4 月撥入中央特種基金之健康福利捐實徵淨額 89 億元，較上
年同期減少 0.3 億元(-0.4%)；房地合一課徵所得稅撥入住宅基金 24 億
元，較上年同期減少 2 億元(-6.3%)；撥入長照基金 257 億元(其中 98

億元來自房地合一課徵所得稅 、89 億元來自菸稅，71 億元來自遺贈
稅)，較上年同期增加 26 億元(+11.3%)。
四、附表
表 1、全國賦稅實徵淨額統計表(初步統計)
表 2、全國賦稅實徵淨額統計表(初步統計)－按政府別分
表 3、中央政府賦稅實徵淨額統計表(初步統計)
表 4、地方賦稅(含中央統籌)實徵淨額統計表(初步統計)
表 5、歷年全國各類賦稅實徵淨額統計表
表 6、歷年中央政府(不含特別預算)各類賦稅實徵淨額統計表
表 7、土地增值稅件數及實徵淨額統計表(初步統計)
表 8、房地合一課徵所得稅實徵淨額統計表(初步統計)
127.0
102.7 84.2
0
50
100
150
%
圖3   各級政府賦稅收入達成率
(115年1-4月)
中央政府 地方政府 中央特種基金

===== Page 6 =====

1

115 年 4 月海關進出口貿易初步統計 
一、進出口貿易變動 
（一）出口 
4 月出口 676.2 億美元，為歷年單月次高，較上月減 15.7%，較上年
同月增 39.0%(按新臺幣計算增 34.6%)；累計 1 至 4 月出口 2,633.5
億美元，較上年同期增 47.8%(按新臺幣計算增 42.4%)。 
（二）進口 
4 月進口 532.7 億美元，亦為歷年單月次高，較上月減 9.6%，較上
年同月增 29.2%(按新臺幣計算增 25.1%)；累 計1 至 4 月進口 1,960.5
億美元，較上年同期增 33.2%(按新臺幣計算增 28.4%)。 
（三）出入超 
4 月出超 143.5 億美元，較上年同月增 69.4 億美元；累計 1 至 4 月
出超 673.0 億美元，較上年同期增 362.7 億美元。 
表 1 進出口貿易額

4 月 1 ~ 4 月累計 
金   額 與上年同月比較 金   額 與上年同期比較 
增減金額 增減% 增減金額 增減% 
 按美元計算（億美元） 
出口  676.2 189.7 39.0 2,633.5 851.7 47.8 
進口  532.7 120.3 29.2 1,960.5 489.0 33.2 
出超  143.5 69.4 93.7 673.0 362.7 116.9 
 按新臺幣計算（億元） 
出口  21,537 5,537 34.6 83,360 24,818 42.4 
進口  16,967 3,403 25.1 62,068 13,721 28.4 
出超  4,570 2,134 87.6 21,292 11,097 108.9

115 年5 月8 日發布  
網際網路 https://www.mof.gov.tw 同步發送 
下次發布日期：115 年 6 月 9 日下午 4 時 
聯絡人：殷英洳科長  
電  話： (02)2322-8341 
財政部新聞稿

===== Page 7 =====

2 
二、出口主要貨品 
（一）與上年同月比較 
隨人工智慧(AI)、高效能運算與雲端服務等應用商機熱絡，高階晶
片、伺服器出貨動能維持強勁，以及部分產品報價上揚， 4 月出口
較上年同月增 189.7 億美元(+39.0%)，主要變動如下： 
1. 資通與視聽產品出口 305.7 億美元(歷年單月次高)， 較上年同月增
117.4 億美元(+62.3%)，其中電腦及其附屬單元增 102.9 億美元
(+76.5%)、儲存媒體增 8.1 億美元(+1.2 倍)、交換器及路由器增7.7
億美元(+95.7%)，電腦之零附件減 4.7 億美元(-18.4%)。 
2. 電子零組件出口 227.9 億美元(歷年單月次高)，較上年同月增 63.8
億美元(+38.9%)，其中積體電路增 62.1 億美元(+40.5%)、印刷電
路增 0.9 億美元(+20.9%)。 
3. 電機產品出口 14.6 億美元，較上年同月增 3.1 億美元(+27.2%)，
其中變壓器 、 靜電式變流器等增1.4 億美元(+47.1%)、 控電或配電
用器具增 0.6 億美元(+1.1 倍)。 
4. 機械出口 22.4 億美元，較上年同月增 2.6 億美元(+12.9%)，其中
機器、工廠或實驗室設備增 1.3 億美元(+3.3 倍)、生產半導體等機
械增 1.2 億美元(+27.5%)。 
5. 化學品出口 16.1 億美元，較上年同月減 0.7 億美元(-4.3%)，其中
醫藥製劑減 1.9 億美元(-61.7%)， 對二甲苯增0.6 億美元(+93.0%)。 
圖 1 近 1 年各月出口值及年增率

圖 2 歷年 1 至 4 月平均每月出口值 
486.5 
517.4 533.3 
566.8 584.3 
542.3 
608.9 
640.5 624.7 
657.6 
497.9 
801.8 
676.2 
29.9 
38.6 33.7 
42.0 
33.9 33.7 
47.5 
56.0 
43.4 
69.9 
20.6 
61.8 
39.0 
0
20
40
60
80
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
4月
114年
5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月 1月
115年
2月 3月 4月
％億美元
出口金額 年增率
0
239.6 264.4 253.6 259.6 
332.1 
406.0 
334.1 369.3 
445.5 
658.4 
106年 107年 108年 109年 110年 111年
(3)
112年 113年 114年
(2)
115年
(1)
單位：億美元
說明：（）內數字為歷年前3高。

===== Page 8 =====

3 
（二）與上年同期比較 
累計 1 至 4 月出口較上年同期增 851.7 億美元(+47.8%)， 以資通與視
聽產品增561.8億美元(+90.1%)、 電子零組件增260.1億美元(+41.7%)、
機械增 13.1 億美元(+17.2%)、 電機產品增9.1 億美元(+19.7%)等增加
較多。 
表 2 出口貨品 
單位：百萬美元；%

4 月 1 ~ 4 月累計 
金  額  占總出口 與上年同月比較 金  額  占總出口 與上年同期比較 
增減金額 增減率 增減金額 增減率 
資通與視聽產品 30,567  45.2 11,736 62.3 118,521 45.0 56,178 90.1 
電子零組件 22,787  33.7 6,380 38.9 88,368 33.6 26,010 41.7 
 積體電路 21,559  31.9 6,213 40.5 83,643 31.8 25,312 43.4 
基本金屬及其製品 2,407  3.6 -10 -0.4 9,400 3.6 166 1.8 
機械 2,237  3.3 255 12.9 8,911 3.4 1,307 17.2 
化學品 1,613  2.4 -73 -4.3 6,144 2.3 32 0.5 
塑橡膠及其製品 1,572  2.3 83 5.6 6,045 2.3 46 0.8 
電機產品 1,457  2.2 312 27.2 5,498 2.1 905 19.7 
礦產品 1,095  1.6 124 12.7 4,913 1.9 160 3.4 
光學及精密儀器 1,073 1.6 132 14.0 4,142 1.6 284 7.4 
運輸工具 774 1.1 -55 -6.7 3,293 1.3 -152 -4.4 
紡織品 467 0.7 -56 -10.8 1,926 0.7 -174 -8.3 
電子及資通產品 53,354 78.9 18,116 51.4 206,889 78.6 82,188 65.9 
非電子、資通產品 14,267 21.1 859 6.4 56,462 21.4 2,978 5.6 
說明：近年電子零組件、資通與視聽產品之銷售流向隨全球供應鏈重組、部分廠商擴大在臺
生產等出現結構性轉變，爰另予併計。

三、進口主要貨品 
（一）與上年同月比較 
由於 AI 產業鏈國際分工及出口衍生需求擴增，半導體設備購置續居
高檔，加以國際能源價格大幅攀升，4 月進口較上年同月增 120.3 億
美元(+29.2%)，主要變動如下： 
1. 農工原料進口 355.8 億美元， 較上年同月增 82.9 億美元(+30.4%)，
其中電子零組件增 62.6 億美元(+61.3%)、礦產品增 13.1 億美元
(+31.5%)、塑化原料增 3.0 億美元(+12.3%)。 
2. 資本設備進口 127.2 億美元， 較上年同月增 31.8 億美元(+33.3%)，
其中資通設備增 25.0 億美元(+93.9%)、半導體設備增 10.8 億美元
(+31.2%)，交通運輸設備減 5.7 億美元(-82.0%)。 
3. 消費品進口 42.2 億美元，較上年同月增 2.8 億美元(+7.0%)，其中
固態非揮發性儲存裝置增 3.8 億美元(+1.1 倍)、藥粧用品增 1.0 億
美元(+15.6%)，小客車減 2.1 億美元(-35.8%)。

===== Page 9 =====

4 
圖 3 近 1 年各月進口值及年增率

圖 4 歷年 1 至 4 月平均每月進口值 
（二）與上年同期比較 
累計 1 至 4 月進口較上年同期增 489.0 億美元(+33.2%)， 其中農工原
料進口 1,338.7 億 美 元，增357.7 億美元(+36.5%)， 資本設備進口429.2
億 美 元，增107.6 億美元(+33.5%)， 消費品進口170.9 億美元 ， 增21.9
億美元(+14.7%)。 
表 3 進口貨品 
單位：百萬美元；%

4 月 1 ~ 4 月累計 
金  額  占總進口 與上年同月比較 金  額  占總進口 與上年同期比較 
增減金額 增減率 增減金額 增減率 
按主要貨品分         
電子零組件 16,464 30.9 6,257 61.3 62,553 31.9 21,698 53.1 
資通與視聽產品 11,102 20.8 2,766 33.2 38,929 19.9 19,326 98.6 
礦產品 5,453 10.2 1,306 31.5 17,153 8.7 -483 -2.7 
 原油 1,906 3.6 294 18.3 6,444 3.3 -1,098 -14.6 
機械 5,346 10.0 1,153 27.5 19,250 9.8 4,080 26.9 
化學品 2,625 4.9 301 13.0 10,070 5.1 777 8.4 
按貿易結構分         
農工原料 35,579 66.8 8,285 30.4 133,866 68.3 35,770 36.5 
資本設備 12,722 23.9 3,177 33.3 42,916 21.9 10,757 33.5 
 半導體設備 4,557 8.6 1,084 31.2 15,502 7.9 3,033 24.3 
消費品 4,222 7.9 277 7.0 17,090 8.7 2,188 14.7 
412.4 
391.1 
412.6 423.2 416.6 418.5 
392.0 
479.6 
430.3 
468.4 
370.3 
589.1 
532.7 
32.9 
24.8 
17.2 20.4 
29.5 25.1 
14.5 
44.9 
14.9 
63.5 
6.8 
38.3 
29.2 
0
20
40
60
80
100
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
600
4月
114年
5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月 1月
115年
2月 3月 4月
％億美元
進口金額 年增率
0
205.2 225.1 224.2 229.6 
281.8 
355.4 
294.7 305.6 
367.9 
490.1 
106年 107年 108年 109年 110年 111年
(3)
112年 113年 114年
(2)
115年
(1)
單位：億美元
說明：（）內數字為歷年前3高。

===== Page 10 =====

5 
四、主要出口國家/地區 
（一）與上年同月比較 
4 月對主要市場出口全面上揚，對東協創單月次高 
1. 對美國出口 215.3 億美元，較上年同月增 83.9 億美元(+63.8%)，
其中資通與視聽產品增 85.5 億美元(+93.3%)、電機產品增 1.9 億
美元(+39.7%)、機械增 1.2 億美元(+25.4%)，化學品減 2.0 億美元
(-49.3%)、基本金屬及其製品減 1.0 億美元(-15.5%)。 
2. 對中國大陸與香港出口 160.0 億美元，較上年同月增 21.8 億美元
(+15.8%)，其中電子零組件增 20.3 億美元(+22.9%)、珠寶及貴金
屬製品增 0.6 億美元(+78.0%)、化學品增 0.5 億美元(+10.6%)。 
3. 對東協出口 143.2 億美元，較上年同月增 38.5 億美元(+36.8%)，
其中電子零組件增 23.6 億美元(+65.3%)、資通與視聽產品增 9.9
億美元(+21.1%)、礦產品增 2.1 億美元(+1.0 倍)。 
4. 對歐洲出口 44.3 億美元，較上年同月增 17.3 億美元(+64.2%)，其
中資通與視聽產品增 12.3 億美元(+1.3 倍)、電子零組件增 2.8 億
美元(+1.1 倍)、運輸工具增 0.6 億美元(+25.5%)。 
5. 對日本出口 28.0 億美元，較上年同月增 6.2 億美元(+28.4%)，其
中電子零組件增 5.8 億美元(+68.4%)、珠寶及貴金屬製品增 0.3 億
美元(+1.6 倍)、化學品增 0.3 億美元(+22.8%)。 
（二）與上年同期比較 
累計 1 至 4 月對美國出口 870.9 億美元 ， 較上年同期增409.8 億美元
(+88.9%)，對中國大陸與香港出口 623.5 億美元，增 117.9 億美元
(+23.3%)，對東協出口 543.6 億美元，增 176.1 億美元(+47.9%)，對
歐洲出口 184.2 億美元，增 70.8 億美元(+62.5%)，對日本出口 113.8
億美元，增 23.8 億美元(+26.5%)。 
表 4 對主要國家/地區出口 
單位：百萬美元；%

4 月 1 ~ 4 月累計 
金  額  占總出口 與上年同月比較 金  額  占總出口 與上年同期比較 
增減金額 增減率 增減金額 增減率 
美國 21,532 31.8 8,388 63.8 87,091 33.1 40,977 88.9 
中國大陸與香港 16,001 23.7 2,178 15.8 62,345 23.7 11,788 23.3 
東協 14,319 21.2 3,854 36.8 54,355 20.6 17,606 47.9 
歐洲 4,431 6.6 1,732 64.2 18,423 7.0 7,083 62.5 
日本 2,795 4.1 618 28.4 11,381 4.3 2,384 26.5 
南韓 2,586 3.8 730 39.3 10,168 3.9 2,793 37.9 
墨西哥 2,857 4.2 1,116 64.1 6,404 2.4 12 0.2 
說明：本表除列示五大市場外，並視出口變動情形，補充增減幅度較顯著之國家/地區。

===== Page 11 =====

6 
五、主要進口國家/地區 
（一）與上年同月比較 
4 月自中國大陸與香港進口 97.8 億美元，較上年同月增 21.8 億美元
(+28.6%)，自東協進口 78.1 億美元，增 27.0 億美元(+52.9%)，自南
韓進口 74.4 億美元，增32.7 億美元(+78.3%)，自美國進口 53.8 億美
元，增 13.0 億美元(+32.0%)，自日本進口 53.2 億美元，增 7.3 億美
元(+15.9%)，自歐洲進口 46.3 億美元，增 5.0 億美元(+12.0%)。 
（二）與上年同期比較 
累計 1 至 4 月自主要國家/地區進口與上年同期比較 ， 自南韓增59.7%、
自東協增 55.2%、自中國大陸與香港增 35.4%、自美國增 20.7%、自
日本增 19.8%、自歐洲增 11.1%。 
表 5 自主要國家/地區進口 
單位：百萬美元；%

4 月 1 ~ 4 月累計 
金  額  占總進口 
與上年同月比較 
金  額  占總進口 
與上年同期比較 
增減金額 增減率 增減金額 增減率 
中國大陸與香港 9,780 18.4 2,176 28.6 37,230 19.0 9,738 35.4 
東協 7,812 14.7 2,704 52.9 28,408 14.5 10,103 55.2 
南韓 7,436 14.0 3,265 78.3 27,487 14.0 10,275 59.7 
美國 5,379 10.1 1,303 32.0 18,071 9.2 3,099 20.7 
日本 5,321 10.0 732 15.9 20,876 10.6 3,452 19.8 
歐洲 4,626 8.7 496 12.0 17,316 8.8 1,728 11.1 
中東 1,292 2.4 -936 -42.0 6,445 3.3 -2,210 -25.5 
六、主要國家/地區貿易概況 
（一）今年以來主要國家/地區出口普遍上揚，其中南韓受惠於 AI 應用需求
強勁及記憶體價格上漲，出口值連續 2 個月逾 800 億美元，累計前 4
月成長 40.5%；累計 1-3 月，香港、新加坡分別年增38.4%、35.2%，
美國、中國大陸、日本及德國(1-2 月)出口年增率介於 8.4%~15.1%。 
（二）主要國家/地區進口亦多呈上升，僅美國受去年因應關稅措施提前拉
貨影響，比較基期偏高，進口下滑13.6%；其餘地區中，以香港進口
年增 44.9%最為顯著，新加坡、中國大陸分別年增 30.1%、22.7%，
南韓(1-4 月)、德國(1-2 月)及日本各增 12.4%、10.6%、4.0%。

===== Page 12 =====

7
圖 5 2026 年主要國家/地區出進口年增率
七、綜合分析
（一）人工智慧(AI)、高效能運算及雲端服務等應用商機持續熱絡，帶動相
關供應鏈需求維持高檔，加以部分產品報價調漲，4 月出口 676.2 億
美元，創歷年單月次高，年增 39.0%，連續 30 個月正成長；進口隨
AI 產業鏈國際分工運作、資本設備購置增加 ，以及能源價格大幅攀升，
規模值 532.7 億美元，亦 為單月次高 ， 年增29.2%。累 計1 至 4 月出、
進口分別年增 47.8%、33.2%。
（二）4 月主要貨品出口以資通與視聽產品、電子零組件表現較為亮眼，各
年增 62.3%、38.9%，規模值同創單月次高；電機產品、機械分別增
27.2%、12.9%；礦產品、塑橡膠及其製品隨國際原油價格上揚，出
口各增 12.7%、5.6%，化學品則因上年藥品出口基數偏高，年減4.3%。
累計 1 至 4 月出口主要貨品多呈正成長，資通與視聽產品、電子零
組件合計年增 65.9%，占總出口比重達 78.6%。
（三）4 月對主要市場出口全面成長，其中對歐洲、美國均年增 6 成 4，增

幅較顯著，對東協年增 36.8%，出口值為歷年單月次高，對日本、中
國大陸與香港分別年增 28.4%、15.8%。累計前 4 月對五大市場出口
均雙位數成長，以對美國年增 88.9%最突出，規模值占總出口比重
33.1%，創近 36 年同期新高，對 歐 洲、東 協出口分別增 62.5%、47.9%，
對日本、陸港各增 26.5%、23.3%。
（四）展望未來，隨主要雲端服務供應商擴大資本支出，各國加速建置 AI
基礎設施，以及 AI 相關應用場域持續推進，帶動半導體及資通訊供
應鏈需求強勁，加上國內先進製程及高階封裝產能陸續開出， 均有
助支撐出口動能，上半年可望維持雙位數成長態勢，惟仍須密切關
注中東地緣政治衝突、美國貿易措施等發展動向。
47.8
40.5 38.4 35.2
15.1 14.7
8.4
12.8
33.2
12.4
44.9
30.1
-13.6
22.7
4.0
10.6
-20
0
20
40
60
我國
1-4月
南韓
1-4月
香港
1-3月
新加坡
1-3月

美國
1-3月
中國大陸
1-3月
日本
1-3月
德國
1-2月
出口 進口
%

===== Page 13 =====

8
八、附表
1.進出口貿易值及年增率
2.出口主要貨品分類
3.進口主要貨品分類
4.出口主要貨品項目
5.進口主要貨品項目
6.出口貿易結構
7.進口貿易結構
8.我國對主要國家/地區出口金額及年增率
9.我國自主要國家/地區進口金額及年增率
10.對主要國家/地區出入超
11.對美國出口之主要貨品
12.對中國大陸與香港出口之主要貨品
13.對新南向政策18國出口金額及年增率
14.經季節調整之進出口貿易值
15.主要國家/地區進出口金額及年增率
16.進出口物價相關指標
17.主要國家貨幣對美元匯率

## 032_MURC_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

1 / 2

2026年5月20日

調査レポート

2026年1～3月期のGDP（1次速報）結果

～緩やかな景気回復が継続し、2四半期連続のプラス成長～

調査部 主任研究員 藤田隼平

2026年5月19日に内閣府が公表した2026年1～3月期の実質GDP（1次速報値）は、前期比＋0.5%（年
率換算＋2.1%）と、2 四半期連続のプラス成長となった。トランプ関税の影響で落ち込んでいた輸出が、米国向
けを中心に持ち直しへ向かったことが押し上げ要因となった。加えて、個人消費や設備投資も増加し、内需が堅
調に推移したことも下支えとなった。 
また、物価上昇分を含んだ名目GDPは、前期比＋0.8%（年率換算＋3.4%）と、8四半期連続のプラス成長と
なった。物価上昇圧力は依然として強く、コスト増加分の価格転嫁が進む中で、GDPデフレーターは前年比  
＋3.4%（季節調整済前期比では＋0.3%）と、高い伸びが続いた。 
総じてみれば、2 月末からのイラン情勢緊迫化による影響は現時点では限定的であり、国内景気は緩やかな
回復基調を維持していることが確認できる結果となった。2025年度の実質GDP成長率も＋0.8%と、2年連続の
プラス成長で着地した。 
もっとも、先行きについては、原油高や供給制約などの悪影響が顕在化することで、景気の下押し圧力が強ま
る可能性がある。政府による原油備蓄の放出や石油元売り企業への補助再開などが下支えとなり、緩やかな景
気回復基調を維持できると期待されるものの、米国とイランとの交渉が進まず、ホルムズ海峡の封鎖が長期化す
る場合には、景気が腰折れするリスクも高まってこよう。 
 （注）内需寄与度、民間在庫、外需寄与度は実質GDPに対する寄与度（%ポイント） 
（出所）内閣府「四半期別GDP速報」  
前期比(%)2026年4-67-910-121-34-67-910-121-3実質GDP0.00.70.40.40.3－ 0.60.20.5---同 　   (年  率)0.12.71.51.81.4－ 2.50.82.1---同　    (前年同期比)－ 1.10.90.61.52.00.50.20.6---内需寄与度　　　　　 (*)0.50.9－ 0.41.10.2－ 0.30.20.2---個人消費－ 0.10.5－ 0.00.70.20.50.00.30.1住宅投資－ 0.41.30.7－ 0.5－ 0.0－ 8.15.00.50.0設備投資0.90.8－ 0.60.71.2－ 0.11.40.30.1民間在庫　　　　　 (*)－ 0.10.3－ 0.30.7－ 0.2－ 0.2－ 0.4－ 0.1－ 0.1政府最終消費2.00.00.0－ 0.20.70.10.40.10.0公共投資1.21.3－ 0.3－ 0.80.4－ 1.1－ 0.21.40.1外需寄与度　　　　　 (*)－ 0.5－ 0.20.8－ 0.60.1－ 0.30.00.3---輸出0.82.41.6－ 0.61.6－ 1.60.21.70.4輸入2.93.2－ 1.92.21.1－ 0.2－ 0.00.5－ 0.1名目GDP2.01.11.20.82.00.10.90.8---同  　  (年  率)8.24.74.73.18.20.33.83.4---同 　   (前年同期比)2.53.63.75.25.34.03.74.0---3.6 2.7 3.0 3.6 3.2 3.5 3.4 3.4 ---GDPデフレーター　　　　 　(前年同期比)
寄与度2024年 2025年

===== Page 2 =====

2 / 2

需要項目別の動向は以下の通りである。

① 実質個人消費（前期比＋0.3%） 
 家計を取り巻く所得環境の改善（実質雇用者報酬は前期比＋0.2%）を受けて、5 四半期連続
で増加した。耐久財（前期比－1.4%）は減少したものの、半耐久財（同＋0.9%）や非耐久財
（同＋0.4%）、サービス（同＋0.2%）が増加し、全体を押し上げた。 
② 実質住宅投資（前期比＋0.5%） 
 住宅投資に先行する住宅着工戸数は3 四半期ぶりに減少に転じたが、これまでの着工分の進
捗を受けて2四半期連続で増加した。 
③ 実質設備投資（前期比＋0.3%） 
 建築費を中心に投資コストの増加が続いたものの、企業の投資意欲は強く、研究開発投資を中
心に2四半期連続で堅調に増加した。 
④ 実質民間在庫（前期比寄与度－0.1%ポイント） 
 2月末からのイラン情勢緊迫化を受けて、原油備蓄の放出や在庫の取り崩しが進んだことから、
製品在庫や原材料在庫を中心にマイナス寄与となった。 
⑤ 実質政府最終消費（前期比＋0.1%） 
 高齢化が進む中、医療費・介護費を中心に前期比で増加が続いた。 
⑥ 実質公共投資（前期比＋1.4%） 
 建設コストの増加が実質ベースで見た公共投資を下押しする要因となっているが、2 四半期連
続で弱めの動きが続いた反動もあり、前期比プラスとなった。 
⑦ 外需（前期比寄与度＋0.3%ポイント、実質輸出：前期比＋1.7%、実質輸入：同＋0.5%） 
 輸出は前期比＋1.7%と増加した。財は米国向けを中心に前期比＋2.2%と増加した。サービス
も同＋0.4%と増加したが、インバウンド消費（非居住者家計の国内での直接購入）は同－1.6%
と日中関係悪化による訪日中国人の減少を受けて減少した。 
 輸入は前期比＋0.5%と増加した。財は同＋0.4%、サービスは同＋0.8%といずれも増加した。
この結果、輸出から輸入を差し引いた外需の前期比に対する寄与度は＋0.3%ポイントと、内需
の＋0.2%ポイントを上回るプラス寄与となった。 
 なお、イラン情勢緊迫化の影響で3 月は中東向け輸出や鉱物性燃料の輸入が大きく落ち込ん
だが、四半期値への影響は限定的だった。

===== Page 3 =====

経済調査グラフで見る関西経済
（2026年5月）
2026年5月14日調査部 主任研究員塚田裕昭

===== Page 4 =====

1Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
今月の景気判断～横ばい圏で推移している
現状横ばい圏で推移している
生産横ばい圏で推移している
輸出横ばい圏で推移している
設備投資増加している
雇用持ち直しの動きがみられる
賃金持ち直している
個人消費持ち直しの動きがみられる
住宅投資横ばい圏で推移している
公共投資例年並みの水準となっている
項目 景気全般
【今月のポイント】
関西経済は、横ばい圏で推移している2月の生産は2ヵ月連続で前月比マイナスとなったが、均してみると横ばい圏で推移している3月の実質輸出は2ヵ月ぶりに前月比でプラスとなった。均してみると横ばい圏で推移している25年度の設備投資は、非製造業を中心に大幅増で着地の見込み。26年度も増加が見込まれている3月の小売販売額は名目で前年比プラスが続いている。実質ベースも3ヵ月連続でプラスとなった2月の賃金（大阪）は、名目でプラスが続いている。実質でも3ヵ月連続でプラスとなった

===== Page 5 =====

2Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting70809010011012013018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
全国関西
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
生産
2月の鉱工業生産（関西）は前月比－0.1%と2ヵ月連続でマイナスとなったが、均してみると横ばい圏で推移している。主要業種である電子部品・デバイス、電気機械、化学、汎用・生産用・業務用機械は、いずれも増加した。先行きは、イラン情勢の展開や中国経済減速から、下振れるリスクがある。
（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業生産動向」
鉱工業生産指数電子部品・デバイス電気機械
化学 汎用・生産用・業務用機械
506070809010011012013018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）506070809010011012013018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
506070809010011012013018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

（2020年=100）
（年、月）506070809010011012013018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
2月前月比－0.1%

===== Page 6 =====

3Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
輸出
3月の実質輸出（季節調整値）は、前月比＋3.0%の108.5と2ヵ月ぶりに増加。均してみると横ばい圏で推移している。当社試算の3月の輸出数量（季節調整値）は2ヵ月ぶりに増加。先行きについても横ばい圏での推移を見込むが、イラン情勢の展開や中国経済の減速から下振れるリスクもある。
実質輸出指数（季節調整値）輸出数量指数（季節調整値）
8085909510010511011512012513019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
全国関西
（年、月）（出所）日銀大阪支店「実質輸出入」
（2020年＝100）
3月前月比＋3.0%
80859095100105110115120125130
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22
全国関西
（2020年＝100）
（年、月）（出所）内閣府、MURC（注）関西の数量指数はMURC試算。輸出金額（指数）を輸出価格指数（全国）で除したもの。
3月前月比＋8.9%

===== Page 7 =====

4Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
企業景況感（日銀短観）
日銀短観3月調査の業況判断DI（「良い」－「悪い」）は、全産業で＋15ptと12月調査（＋16ｐｔ）から小幅低下。製造業は＋10pt、非製造業は＋21ptといずれも横ばいとなった。業種別に見ると、製造業では、はん用・生産用・業務用機械などが上昇する一方、化学が低下。非製造業は、情報通信が上昇する一方、宿泊・飲食サービスが低下した。先行き（6月）については、製造業、非製造業ともに低下が見込まれている。
短観 業況判断DＩ「全産業」 同 製造業
同 非製造業
-50-40-30-20-100102019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国
6月+4pt
（出所）日銀「短観」（年、四半期）
3月+10pt先行き
-50-40-30-20-10010203019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国
（年、四半期）
先行き
6月＋12pt
（出所）日銀「短観」
3月＋21pt-40-30-20-10010203019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

関西全国
6月＋9pt3月＋15pt
（出所）日銀「短観」（年、四半期）
先行き
※※以下は4/1公表の3月調査。6月調査は7/1公表予定

===== Page 8 =====

5Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
設備投資（日銀短観）
日銀短観3月調査によると、25年度の設備投資は全産業で前年比＋10.6％と見込まれている。26年度は同＋4.7％と計画されており、業種別では、化学、食料品、輸送用機械、建設、不動産、小売などが前年比増の計画となっている。
設備投資 実績・計画設備投資額（前年比％）
0.96.110.64.76.89.24.54.6-3.23.915.44.7-15.0-10.0-5.00.05.010.015.020.025.023実績24実績25計画26計画
全産業製造非製造（前年比、％）
（出所）日銀大阪支店「短観」（年度）（注）設備投資は、含む土地投資額
※※以下は4/1公表の3月調査。6月調査は7/1公表予定
今回調査 （前回調査との差異） 前回調査6.1 10.6（-1.7）12.3 4.7
製造業9.2 4.5（-3.0）7.5 4.6
非製造業3.9 15.4（-0.9）16.3 4.7
24年度実績25年度計画

全産業
26年度計画

===== Page 9 =====

6Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
個人消費（小売売上、自動車販売）
3月の小売販売額（名目）は、前年比＋3.0%と増加が続いている。実質値は前年比＋1.1％と3ヵ月連続でプラスとなった。3月の新車販売は、前年比－5.0%と3ヵ月連続で減少。軽自動車は増加したが、普通車、小型車が減少した。
小売販売額（6業態計） 新車販売台数（含む軽）
-60-50-40-30-20-1001020304050607019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国
3月－5.0％
（前年比％）
（年、月）（出所）日本自動車販売協会連合会「新車販売台数状況」全国軽自動車協会連合会「軽四輪車新車販売」
-20-15-10-50510152019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西（名目）関西（実質）全国（名目）
（前年比、％）
（年、月）（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」からMURC試算（注）百貨店、スーパー、コンビニ、ドラッグストア、家電量販店、ホームセンターの合計「持家の帰属家賃を除く総合（関西）」で実質化

3月＋3.0％

===== Page 10 =====

7Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
個人消費（業態別）
3月の百貨店売上（大阪）は、前年比＋4.4%と2ヵ月ぶりにプラスとなった。高額消費が好調であったことに加え、中国人客の減少が続いているものの他地域からの旅行客の増加がインバウンドの落ち込みを補った。京阪神百貨店免税売上指数は前年比＋1.7％の2,037.1と5ヵ月ぶりにプラスとなった。
百貨店売上高 京阪神百貨店免税売上高
ドラッグストア販売額 家電大型販売店販売額
-100-80-60-40-2002040608019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26大阪全国（出所）日本百貨店協会「百貨店売上高」（注）店舗調整後前年比（年、月）
（前年比％）
3月＋4.4%0500100015002000250030003500400019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26（出所）日銀大阪支店「百貨店免税売上（関西）」（年、月）
（2013/4=100） 3月2,037.1
-40-20020406019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国 （年、月）（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」

3月＋2.5%
（前年比、%）
-30-20-10010203019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国
3月＋6.2%
（年、月）（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」
（前年比、%）

===== Page 11 =====

8Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
マインド・景況感
4月の消費者態度指数（季節調整値）は32.8と2ヵ月ぶりに小幅上昇した。4月の景気ウォッチャー調査（現状判断DI、季節調整値）は前月差0.1pt上昇の41.7となり、横ばいを示す50を16ヵ月連続で下回った。中東情勢に伴う物価高で消費者の節約志向や企業の先行き懸念が高まる一方で、インバウンドや株高による高額消費が下支えとなっている。
（注）関西の季節調整値はMURC試算（出所）内閣府「消費動向調査」（出所）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」
消費者態度指数 景気ウォッチャー調査（現状判断）
01020304050607019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国
（DI）
（年、月）（年、月）（年、月）
4月41.7
102030405019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国 （年、月）
4月32.8

===== Page 12 =====

9Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
賃金・雇用
2月の大阪の賃金指数は、名目で前年比＋2.4%と前年比プラスが続いている。実質でも同＋0.9％と3ヵ月連続でプラスとなった。3月の関西の有効求人倍率は1.08倍と前月とほぼ同水準。求人倍率は全国と比べ低めで推移している。26年1-3月期の失業率は2.8%と前期から0.1%pt低下、就業者数は前期と同水準であった。名目賃金指数 有効求人倍率（季節調整値）
失業率と就業者数（季節調整値）
1.01.11.21.31.41.51.61.720 21 22 23 24 25 26関西全国（出所）厚生労働省「一般職業紹介状況」
（倍）
3月1.08
（年、月）
9501,0001,0501,1001,1500123419 20 21 22 23 24 25 26就業者数（関西、右目盛）完全失業率（関西）完全失業率（全国）
（万人）（％）
（年、四半期）（出所）総務省「労働力調査」
1-3月期2.8%-6-4-20246822 23 24 25 26大阪（名目）大阪（実質）全国（名目）全国（実質）（前年比％）

（年、月）（出所）毎月勤労統計大阪（名目）2月＋2.4％

===== Page 13 =====

10Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
住宅投資
3月の住宅着工は、季調・年率12.4万戸と2ヵ月ぶりに減少した。このところ総じて横ばい圏で推移している。昨年3月に省エネ基準への適合義務化等を前に全国で駆け込みが生じたことから、前年比では－25.1％と大幅減となった。先行きは、季調・年率で横ばい圏での推移を見込む。
新設住宅着工戸数（季調済年率換算）新設住宅着工戸数（前年比）
02468101214161821 22 23 24 25 26（年、月）（注）季調値はMURC試算値（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」
（万戸） 3月12.4万戸
-50-40-30-20-1001020304021 22 23 24 25 26持家貸家給与分譲合計（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」
（％）
（年、月）
3月－25.1％

===== Page 14 =====

11Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
倒産
3月の公共工事請負金額（年度累計）は、前年比－1.7％の1 兆7,882億円。おおむね例年並みの水準となっている。
公共投資
4月の倒産件数は244件と前年から16件増加。均してみると、おおむね横ばい圏で推移している。
倒産件数 公共工事請負金額（年度累計）
-150-100-5005010015020025030019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26前年差倒産件数
（件）
（年、月）（出所）東京商工リサーチ「全国企業倒産状況」
+16件4月244件
2,0004,0006,0008,00010,00012,00014,00016,00018,00020,0004月5月6月7月8月9月10月11月12月1月2月3月
21年度22年度23年度24年度25年度
（出所）東日本建設業保証「公共工事前払金保証統計」
（億円）

===== Page 15 =====

===== Page 16 =====

===== Page 17 =====

経済調査グラフで見る東海経済
（2026年5月）
2026年5月13日調査部 主任研究員塚田裕昭

===== Page 18 =====

1Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
今月の景気判断 ～持ち直しの動きがみられる※青字部分と下のまとめ表は、HP直近公開時のもの黒字部分は、HP公開後、更新したもの
【今月のポイント】
東海経済は、持ち直しの動きがみられる2月の生産（東海3県）は2ヵ月ぶりに前月比でマイナスとなったが、高水準を維持しており持ち直しの動きがみられる輸出は総じてみると足踏み状態。先行きは持ち直しを見込むが、イラン情勢の展開により足踏みとなるリスクがある25年度の設備投資は、非製造業を中心に大幅増で着地の見込み。26年度も増加が見込まれている3月の小売販売額は名目で前年比プラスが続いている。実質では3ヵ月ぶりにマイナスとなった2月の名目賃金（愛知）は前年比＋0.8％と3ヵ月連続で増加。実質では同－0.9％と2ヵ月連続で減少した
現状 景気全般持ち直しの動きがみられる
生産持ち直しの動きがみられる
輸出足踏み状態となっている
設備投資増加している
雇用持ち直しの動きがみられる

賃金持ち直している
個人消費持ち直しの動きがみられる
住宅投資横ばい圏で推移している
公共投資高めの水準となっている
項目

===== Page 19 =====

2Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting70809010011012013018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
東海3県 全国
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
生産
2月の鉱工業生産（東海3県）は前月比－2.6%と2ヵ月ぶりに減少したが、高水準を維持しており持ち直しの動きがみられる。新型車用設備の更新明けによる輸送用機械の増産、AI関連投資の拡大による電子部品・デバイスの増産が足下の高水準につながっている。先行きについては持ち直しを見込むが、イラン情勢の展開により下振れるリスクもある。
（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業生産動向」
鉱工業生産指数 電子部品・デバイス輸送機械
電気機械 汎用・生産用・業務用機械
506070809010011012013014018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
70809010011012013014018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

（2020年=100）
（年、月 ）70809010011012013014018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
608010012014016018020022024026028018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
2月前月比－2.6％

===== Page 20 =====

3Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting5,0006,0007,0008,0009,00010,00011,00012,00013,00014,00015,00016,000
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 322年度23年度24年度25年度26年度
（月）
（台/日）
（出所）トヨタ自動車HP、中部経済新聞、鉄鋼新聞
生産 （トヨタ国内生産）
3月のトヨタ生産台数（弊社季節調整値）は、29.9万台と2ヵ月ぶりに増加。日当たり生産台数（原数値）は3ヵ月連続で増加した。先行きは、日当たり生産台数を6月以降1万4千台程度とする計画がたてられているが、イラン情勢の進展によっては下方修正となるリスクがある。
（注）点線部分は計画
トヨタ月次生産台数（季節調整値）トヨタ日当たり生産台数（原数値）
0510152025303540506070809010011012013019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
輸送機械･生産指数トヨタ生産台数［右軸］

(年、月）
（2020年=100） （万台／月）
（注）トヨタ生産台数の季節調整はMURC試算、輸送機械･生産指数は東海３県のもの（出所）中部経済新聞、鉄鋼新聞、中部経済産業局「鉱工業生産指数」
3月 トヨタ実績29.9万台
4～7月の生産台数は新聞報道をもとにした予測値（細線部）

===== Page 21 =====

4Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting6070809010011012013014019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
東海
全国
（出所）日銀名古屋支店「実質輸出入」（年、月）
（2020年＝100） 輸出数量指数（季節調整値）
輸出
2月の実質輸出指数（季節調整値）は、前月比＋1.1%と2ヵ月連続で上昇した。当社試算による3月の輸出数量指数（季節調整値）は、同－2.6%と2ヵ月ぶりに低下した。東海の輸出は、総じてみると足踏み状態となっている。先行きについては、生産の持ち直しに応じて輸出も持ち直しが期待されるが、イラン情勢の展開により足踏みとなるリスクがある。実質輸出指数（季節調整値）
2月東海前月比＋1.1%
60708090100110120130
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
東海全国
（2020年＝100）
（年、月）（出所）内閣府、MURC（注）東海の数量指数はMURC試算。輸出金額（指数）を輸出価格指数（全国）で除したもの。

3月東海前月比－2.6%

===== Page 22 =====

5Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
企業景況感（日銀短観）
日銀短観3月調査の業況判断DIは、全産業で＋21ptと12月調査(＋22pt)とおおむね同水準。製造業では化学、金属製品などが改善し全体でも小幅改善したが、非製造業では建設、運輸・郵便、宿泊・飲食サービスなどが悪化、全体でも悪化した。先行き（6月）については、製造業、非製造業とも悪化が見込まれている。
短観 業況判断DＩ「全産業」 同 製造業
同 非製造業
-50-40-30-20-10010203019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
東海全国
3月＋21pt先行き6月＋11pt
（出所）日銀「短観」（注）24年3月調査より調査対象見直しが行われた（年、四半期）
-60-40-2002019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26東海全国
6月＋7pt3月＋17pt
（出所）日銀「短観」（年、四半期）
先行き
-40-30-20-1001020304019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26東海全国

6月＋17pt3月＋26pt
（出所）日銀「短観」（年、四半期）
先行き
※以下は4/1公表の3月調査。6月調査は7/1公表予定

===== Page 23 =====

6Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
設備投資（日銀短観）
日銀短観3月調査によると、25年度の設備投資は全産業で前年比＋8.1％と見込まれている。26年度については、3月調査は通常前年水準と同程度と見込まれる傾向があるが、全産業で＋0.8％の計画となっている。業種別では、食料品、紙・パルプ、電気機械、物品賃貸、情報通信などが大幅増を計画している。
設備投資 実績・計画設備投資額（前年比％）
6.27.18.10.87.37.85.50.82.84.516.50.9-202468101214161823実績24実績25見込み26計画全産業製造非製造
（出所）日銀名古屋支店「短観」（注）含むソフトウェア・研究開発、除く土地投資
（前年比、％）
（年度）
※以下は4/1公表の3月調査。6月調査は7/1公表予定
今回調査 （前回調査との差異）前回調査7.1 8.1（-1.4）9.5 0.8
製造業7.8 5.5（-1.4）6.9 0.8
非製造業4.5 16.5（-1.4）17.9 0.925年度見込み

全産業
24年度実績 26年度計画

===== Page 24 =====

7Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
個人消費（小売売上、自動車販売）
3月の小売販売額（名目）は前年比＋1.7%と17ヵ月連続でプラスとなった。実質値を試算すると、前年比－0.03％と3ヵ月ぶりにマイナスとなった。3月の新車販売は、前年比－2.4%と9ヵ月連続で減少。小型車、軽自動車は増加したが、普通車が減少した。小売販売額（6業態計） 新車販売台数（含む軽）
-60-50-40-30-20-10010203040506019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26東海全国
（前年比％）
（年、月）（出所）日本自動車販売協会連合会「新車販売台数状況」全国軽自動車協会連合会「軽四輪車新車販売」
3月－2.4%-15-10-50510152019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
東海（名目）東海（実質）全国（名目）
（前年比、％）
（年、月）（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」からMURC試算（注）百貨店、スーパー、コンビニ、ドラッグストア、家電量販店、ホームセンターの合計「持家の帰属家賃を除く総合（東海）」で実質化

3月＋1.7%

===== Page 25 =====

8Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting-10-5051019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26全国中部
3月＋0.4%
（年、月）（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」
（前年比、%）
-10010203019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26東海全国 （年、月）（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」
（前年比、%）
個人消費（業態別）
3月の業態別小売販売（名目）をみると、スーパー（中部5県）は前年比＋0.4%と17ヵ月連続で増加した。3月の百貨店売上（名古屋）は、前年比＋8.3%と8ヵ月連続で増加した。食料品、金製品など催事の好調が売り上げ増につながった。
3月＋6.1%
スーパー販売額
百貨店売上高
ドラッグストア販売額
家電大型販売店販売額
-60-40-20020406019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26名古屋全国
3月＋8.3%
（出所）日本百貨店協会「百貨店売上高」（注）店舗調整後前年比（年、月）
（前年比％）
-40-200204019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26東海全国 （年、月）（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」

（前年比、%） 3月＋0.7%

===== Page 26 =====

9Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
マインド・景況感
4月の消費者態度指数は、34.0と前月から小幅上昇した。3月の景気ウォッチャー調査（現状判断DI）は前月差－5.9ポイントの41.3と大幅に低下、横ばいを示す50を3ヵ月連続で下回った。富裕層の消費、半導体関連の受注が好調である一方、物価上昇やガソリン価格高騰による節約志向の高まりが指摘されている。消費者態度指数 景気ウォッチャー調査（現状判断）
102030405019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26東海全国 （年、月）（年、月）01020304050607019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26東海全国
（DI）
（年、月）（年、月）
（DI）
（年、月）（年、月）（年、月）
3月41.3
（注）東海の季節調整値はMURC試算（出所）内閣府「消費動向調査」（出所）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」
4月34.0

===== Page 27 =====

10Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
賃金・雇用
2月の愛知県の名目賃金は前年比＋0.8％と3ヵ月連続で増加。実質では同－0.9％と2ヵ月連続で減少した。3月の東海３県の有効求人倍率は1.23と前月とほぼ同水準。このところ横ばいで推移している。26年1-3月期の失業率は2.3%と低下、就業者数は前期比で減少した。
賃金指数 有効求人倍率（季節調整値）
失業率と就業者数（季節調整値）
1.01.21.41.61.82.02.220 21 22 23 24 25 26東海3県 全国
3月1.23
（出所）厚生労働省「一般職業紹介状況」
（倍）
（年、月）
7508008509000123419 20 21 22 23 24 25 26就業者数（東海、右目盛）完全失業率（東海）完全失業率（全国）
1-3月期2.3％（万人）（％）
（年、四半期）（出所）総務省「労働力調査」
-8-6-4-20246822 23 24 25 26愛知（名目）愛知（実質）全国（名目）全国（実質）（前年比％）（年、月）（出所）毎月勤労統計愛知（名目）2月＋0.8％

===== Page 28 =====

11Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
住宅投資
3月の住宅着工は、季節調整済年率換算で6.3万戸と前月から減少。このところおおむね横ばい圏で推移している。前年比では、昨年3月に省エネ基準への適合義務化等を前に全国で駆け込みが生じたことの反動で－35.4％と大幅減となった。先行きは、横ばい圏での推移が見込まれる。
新設住宅着工戸数（季調済年率換算）新設住宅着工戸数（前年比）
02468101221 22 23 24 25 26（年、月）（注）季調値はMURC試算値（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」
（万戸）
3月6.3万戸
-50-40-30-20-1001020304021 22 23 24 25 26持家貸家給与分譲合計（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」
（％）
（年、月）
3月－35.4%

===== Page 29 =====

12Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
3月の公共工事請負金額（年度累計）は、前年比＋10.8%の1兆3,446億円と、例年に比べ高めの水準となっている。
3月の倒産件数は62件と前年から11件減少。おおむねコロナ前程度の水準で推移している。
倒産 公共投資
倒産件数 公共工事請負金額（年度累計）
-80-60-40-2002040608010012019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26前年差倒産件数
3月62件
－11件
（件）
（年、月）（出所）東京商工リサーチ「全国企業倒産状況」
1,0003,0005,0007,0009,00011,00013,00015,0004月5月6月7月8月9月10月11月12月1月2月3月
21年度22年度23年度24年度25年度
（出所）東日本建設業保証「公共工事前払金保証統計」
（億円）

===== Page 30 =====

===== Page 31 =====

===== Page 32 =====

2026 年 5 月 11日

MURC Focus

二大政党が大敗した英国の統一地方選

～懸念される労働党のさらなる左傾化～

調査部 主任研究員 土田 陽介

1. イングランド地方選では二大政党が大敗 
5 月 7 日に英国で大型の統一地方選が実施された。この選挙ではスコットランドとウェールズで自治政府の議
会選が行われたほか、イングランドでは 136 の自治体で 5,066 の議席と 6 つの首長ポストが争われた。うちイン
グランド地方選では、中道左派の与党・労働党と中道右派の最大野党・保守党のいずれもが惨敗する結果となっ
た（図表 1）。代わって勢力を急伸させたのが、新興右派の野党・改革党（Reform UK）だった。

ナイジェル・ファラージ党首が率いる改革党は、主要政党の支持率調査でも首位を走っている（図表 2）。かつ
て保守党や自民党を支持していた有権者が、改革党を支持するようになったものと考えられる。一方、労働党の
支持率は保守党と同程度まで水準が低下している。これまで労働党を支持していた有権者の多くは、環境左派
である緑の党を支持するようになったもようである。 
〇5月7日に英国で大型の統一地方選が実施され たが、うちイングランド地方選では、中道左派の与党・労働
党と中道右派の最大野党・保守党のいずれもが惨敗する結果となった。 
〇労働党に対する英国の有権者の信頼は失われる一方である。背景には、労働党政権の下でも英国経済の
不振が続いていることにあると考えられる。 
〇労働党政権が経済的な観点から大きな政府路線を修正できるか。それとも政治的な観点から大きな政府路
線を強化するかが、当面の英国の経済情勢の注目点となる。 
図表1. イングランド地方選の結果 図表2. 主要政党の支持率調査

（出所）イングランド選挙管理委員会

（出所）YouGov

0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
保守党 労働党 自民党 改革党 緑の党
改選前 改選後
（議席）
5
10
15
20
25
30
25 26
保守党 労働党 自民党
改革党 緑の党
（%）
（月）

===== Page 33 =====

2. 背景にある英国経済の不振の長期化 
2024 年 7 月の総選挙で地滑り的な勝利を果たし、保守党から政権を奪取した労働党だが、有権者の信頼は
失われる一方である。その理由として移民対策の不十分さが指摘されるが 、それ以上に英国経済の不振が続い
ていることがあると考えられる。キア・スターマー首相が率いる労働党政権は、英国経済がスタグフレーション（景
気停滞と物価高進の併存）の渦中にあるにもかかわらず、いわゆる“大きな政府”を追求してきた。

大きな政府の下では公需が膨張し、スタグフレーションを長期化させる。実際に英国では、2025 年以降の物価
上昇率が大陸の欧州連合（EU）を上回っており、労働党政権による歳出の拡張が粘着的な物価上昇につながっ
たと考えられる（図表 3）。こうした粘着的な物価上昇の影響を受けて、英国では個人消費も足踏みが続いている
（図表 4）。

また労働党政権は、歳出の拡張と同時に、財政健全化の観点から歳入の増加にも取り組んでおり、増税を強
化してきた。当然ながら景気停滞下での増税は国民に不人気であり、有権者の労働党離れにつながったと考え
られる。こうした環境のなかで、保守派の有権者を中心に改革党や自民党を支持する動きが、また革新派の有権
者を中心に緑の党を支持するという流れが強まった結果が、今回の統一地方選だったといえよう。

この統一地方選の結果を受けて、労働党内ではスターマー首相の責任論が浮上、辞任を求める声が高まって
いるが、スターマー首相は続投を明言している。議会下院（庶民院）が解散されない限り、労働党は 2029 年 8 月
15 日まで政権を維持できる。労働党はそれまでにスタグフレーションからの脱却などの経済的な成果を出さなけ
ればならないが、大きな政府路線を維持するなら、それは難しいと考えられる。

図表3. 英国と EU の消費者物価 図表4. 英国と EU の実質個人消費

（出所）英国立統計局（ONS）及び欧州連合統計局（ユーロスタット）

（注）対家計非営利団体部門（NPISH）を含むベース。 
（出所）ONS 及びユーロスタット

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
英国 EU
（前年比、%）
（年、月）
90
95
100
105
110
115
21 22 23 24 25 26
英国 EU
（2021年=100、季調済）
（年、四半期）

===== Page 34 =====

3. 懸念される労働党のさらなる左傾化 
これまで英国では、二大政党制の下、労働党と保守党との間で政権交代が繰り返されてきた。とはいえ、今般
の統一地方選でも明らかとなったように、労働党と保守党は人気の低下が激しいため、事実上の多党制に移行
するのではないかという指摘が増えている。一方、英国の総選挙は小選挙区制で行われるため、その選挙区で
実績を積み重ねてきた政治家に有利な設計となっている。

改革党は現在、庶民院 650 議席のうち 8 議席しか有していない。次期の総選挙では、保守党から改革党に鞍
替えして立候補する政治家も いると考えられるが、保守党の責任政党としての実績を評価する有権者も少なくな
い。ファラージ党首自身、過激な主張を展開しているだけで、政治的な実績はほぼゼロであることから、改革党が
保守党を上回る勢力になるとは予想しにくい。

他方で、短期的に予想される展開として、労働党のさらなる左傾化がある。つまり、 より左派色の濃い政策運営
を望む有権者の支持を集めようと、労働党が大きな政府路線を 今後も推し進め、その下で分配政策や環境対策
をさらに強化する展開である。こうしたことを進めれば、過剰規制に伴うコスト高が深刻化し、英国経済の成長力を
さらに下押しする恐れがある

英国経済がスタグフレーションを脱却するうえで 望ましい経済運営の在り方は小さな政府路線への転換であり、
規制の緩和であるが、それは大きな政府路線を追求する労働党にとって、中道化あるいは右傾化を意味する。こ
のことは中間層や無党派層の労働党への支持につながる可能性がある反面、保守党との違いが不明瞭となるた
め、労働党は左派の支持層を失う恐れがある。

とはいえ繰り返しとなるが、左派政策への傾斜はスタグフレーションを長期化させる。労働党政権が経済的な観
点から大きな政府路線を修正できるか。それとも政治的な観点から大きな政府路線を強化するかが、当面の英国
の経済情勢の注目点となる。

===== Page 35 =====

===== Page 36 =====

経済調査
米国景気概況（2026年5月）
2026年5月11日
調査部 主任研究員
細尾 忠生

===== Page 37 =====

1 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
景気は底堅い
（出所）米商務省 （出所）米供給管理協会
米国経済は堅調に推移している。1-3月期の実質GDP成長率は前期比年率2.0%に加速した。輸入が1年ぶりに増加し成
長率を押し下げたが、個人消費は底堅く推移し、設備投資はおよそ3年ぶりの高い伸びを記録した。企業の景況感を示す
ISM景況指数は、製造業、非製造業いずれも判断の目安となる50の水準を上回った。先行き、堅調な個人消費やAI需要
の高まりなどから景気は底堅く推移する見込みである。
実質GDP ISM景況指数
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（前期比年率、％）
（年、四半期）
40
45
50
55
60
65
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
製造業
非製造業
（年、月次）
（％）

===== Page 38 =====

2 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
（注） 2025年10月の失業率は欠損値
（出所）米労働省
生産は減少、雇用は増加
（出所）米FRB
 3月の鉱工業生産は前月比0.5%減少した。自動車・部品が同2.8%減と3カ月ぶりに減少したほか、鉱業も同1.2%減と2
カ月ぶりに減少した。設備投資動向を示す3月のコア資本財出荷は同1.2%増と7カ月連続で増加した。
 4月の非農業部門雇用者数は前月差11.5万人増加した。業種別では、教育・医療（同4.6万人増）、運輸（同3.0万人増） 、
小売（同2.2万人増）の増加幅が大きかった。また、失業率は4.3%と横ばいであった。
鉱工業生産 雇 用
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
全体（左） 自動車・自動車部品（右）
（2017年=100）
（年、月次）
（2017年=100）
2
3

4
5
6
7
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
21 22 23 24 25 26
雇用者数（左） 失業率（右）
（前月差、万人） （％）
（年、月次）

===== Page 39 =====

3 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
消費は増加、物価上昇率はガソリン高が懸念
（出所）米商務省
 3月の実質個人消費は前月比0.2%増加した。内訳をみると、自動車などの耐久財消費が同0.9%増、ガソリンなどの非
耐久財消費は同0.3%増、外食、宿泊などのサービス消費が同0.1%増加した。
 消費者物価（エネルギーと食料品を除くコアベース）上昇率は、3月は前年比2.8%と鈍化した。一方、FRBが重視する個
人消費支出物価指数（同）上昇率は、3月は同3.2%とおよそ2年ぶりの水準に加速した。先行き、サービスは鈍化傾向に
あるものの、財は関税に加え、ガソリン価格上昇の影響もあり、物価は上昇圧力が高まる可能性がある。
物 価実質個人消費
（注） 2025年10月のCPIは欠損値
（出所）米労働省、商務省
-1
0
1
2
3
4
21 22 23 24 25 26
（前月比、％）
（年、月次）
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

CPI総合
CPIコア
個人消費支出物価指数コア
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）

===== Page 40 =====

4 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
住宅：着工は増加、価格は上昇
（出所）米商務省 （出所）S&P Global
 3月の住宅着工件数は年率150万戸と、およそ1年3カ月ぶりの水準に増加した。もっとも、住宅価格やローン金利がい
ずれも高止まりしているため、住宅着工はなおしばらく一進一退の推移が続く公算が大きい。
 2月の住宅価格指数は前年比0.7%上昇した。上昇は33カ月連続となったが上昇率は鈍化した。米国では住宅の供給
不足が根強く、住宅価格は今後も上昇が続く見込みである。
S&Pコアロジック・ケース・シラー住宅価格指数住宅着工件数
0
50
100
150
200
02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
（年率、万戸）
（年、月次）
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
00 05 10 15 20 25
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）

===== Page 41 =====

5 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
原油相場と米景気
 ガソリン高の米景気への影響が懸念されている。もっとも、油価と米景気の関係をみると、1990年、2001年、08年の油価
高騰時は景気後退入りしたが、2011年、17年、22年は景気後退入りを回避した。
 背景には、自動車の燃費効率改善やEV普及により、個人消費に占めるエネルギー関連支出の割合が低下トレンドにある
ことがある。シェール革命により原油の純輸出国となった効果もあるとみられる。
 米大手紙の専門家調査では、景気後退確率が50%を超える油価の回答平均値は146ドル。その高値がどれだけ続けば景
気後退に陥るかは平均14週間であり、現状とはまだ距離がある。油価の米景気への影響は限定的にとどまりそうである。
原油相場と米景気の関係
0.0
20.0
40.0
60.0
80.0
100.0
120.0
140.0
1990 2000 2010 2020
（ドル/バレル）
（出所）NYMEX、NBER （年、月次）

※シャドーは景気後退局面
2008年
2011年
③ 2008年
今回
④ 2011年
⑤ 2017年
① 1990年
② 2001年
⑥ 2022年

===== Page 42 =====

6 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
 FRBは4月28、29日に開催した連邦公開市場委員会（FOMC）で、政策金利であるFF金利の誘導目標を3.5～3.75%に
据え置いた。 据え置きは3会合連続。
 パウエル議長は会見で、中東情勢の影響により、経済見通しの不確実性が高まっているとし、金利をしばらく据え置くこと
を示唆した。
 米金利先物からFOMC会合ごとの政策金利を予想するCMEのフェドウオッチによると、イラン攻撃前までは、年内2回の
利下げが見込まれていたが、原油高などにより年内は金利の据え置きが見込まれている（12月の利上げ確率は約12%）。
政策金利 金融市場における各FOMCの金利見通し
金融政策：金利据え置き、市場は年内の据え置きを予想
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
（出所）FRB
（年）
（％）
3.25
3.50
3.75
4.00
26/1 3 4 6 7 9 10 12

（%）
（FOMCの開催月、年/月）
（注）各FOMCごとの利上げ確率をもとに計算した加重平均値、5月8日時点の値
（出所）シカゴマーカンタイル取引所
利上げ1 回
利下げ1 回

===== Page 43 =====

===== Page 44 =====

〒105-8501
東京都港区虎ノ門5-11-2 オランダヒルズ森タワー

===== Page 45 =====

2026 年 5 月 8 日

調査レポート

グラフで見る景気予報 (5 月)

調査部 
【今月の景気判断】 
景気は緩やかに持ち直している。内需においては、食料品を中心とした物価高により家計の節約志向が根強
いものの、雇用・所得環境の改善やマインドの回復が下支えとなり、個人消費は緩やかに持ち直している。また企
業部門では、景況感は良好で投資意欲も底堅く、設備投資は緩やかに持ち直している。外需においては、日中
関係の悪化によりインバウンド需要の増勢が鈍化しているものの、トランプ関税の影響で落ち込んでいた米国向
けを中心に、財の輸出には下げ止まりの動きがみられている。こうした動きを受けて、生産は底堅く推移している。 
今後も緩やかな景気回復基調が続く見通しだが、目先はイラン情勢緊迫化による悪影響が顕在化することで、
減速感が強まる可能性がある。ホルムズ海峡の封鎖が長引く中で、原油価格上昇によるインフレの再加速懸念、
原油やナフサといった輸入原材料不足による供給制約の顕在化、物流網の混乱による中東向け輸出の停滞な
どから、景気の下押し圧力が強まっている。個人消費は、春闘での好調な賃上げや政府の物価高対策による物
価上昇圧力の緩和が下支えになると期待されるが、イラン情勢緊迫化による消費者マインドの悪化が下押し要因
となる可能性がある。企業の設備投資も、底堅い投資意欲に支えられて持ち直しが続くとみられるが、エネルギ
ー価格上昇を受けたコスト増などで増勢が鈍化するリスクがある。また輸出は、世界的な AI 関連需要の堅調さが
下支えとなる一方、中東向け輸出の停滞や部材不足などにより下振れるリスクがある。加えて、日中関係の悪化
を受けたインバウンドの減少やレアアース輸出規制の本格化、米国の通商政策をめぐる不透明感、金利上昇に
よる利払い費の増加、人手不足による供給制約の深刻化なども引き続き景気の下振れリスクとして意識される。

【今月の景気予報】

（注）1．3 カ月前～、～3 カ月後は｢現況｣の変化の方向感（改善、横ばい、悪化）を表し、            
「現況｣は現在の水準を天気マークで表す。 
2．シャドー部分は、前月から矢印および天気マークを変更した項目を表す。  
3カ月前～ 現況 ～3カ月後 3カ月前～ 現況 ～ 3カ月後
景気全般 輸出
個人消費 輸入
住宅投資 生産
設備投資 雇用
公共投資 賃金

===== Page 46 =====

【当面の注目材料】 
 個人消費～実質賃金の動向、物価高に対する消費者マインドの動き 
 企業部門～企業の業績・設備投資の動向、人手不足・賃上げへの対応 
 海外経済～トランプ米大統領の政策と世界経済の先行き、米国の金融政策の行方、ウクライナ情勢の動向 
 その他～イラン情勢の緊迫化、日中関係の悪化、高市政権による経済政策の動向、日本銀行による利上げ
や長期金利の動向、円安の影響、AI ブームの行方

～本レポートについては最終ページ【景気予報ガイド】参照

===== Page 47 =====

【各項目のヘッドライン】

（＊）参考資料：｢コモディティ・レポート｣→ 
https://www.murc.jp/library/economyresearch/periodicals/commodity/

項目 4月のコ メ ン ト 5月のコ メ ン ト ページ
1． 景気全般 緩やかに持ち直している 緩やかに持ち直している 5～7
2． 生産 横ばい 横ばい 8～9
3． 雇用 改善している 改善している 10
4． 賃金 増加している 増加している 11
5． 個人消費 緩やかに持ち直している 緩やかに持ち直している 11～12
6． 住宅投資 横ばい 横ばい 13
7． 設備投資 緩やかに持ち直している 緩やかに持ち直している 13
8． 公共投資 横ばい圏で推移している 横ばい圏で推移している 14
9． 輸出入･国際収支 輸出、輸入ともに横ばい 輸出、輸入ともに横ばい 14～16
10． 物価 企業物価、消費者物価ともに上昇 企業物価、消費者物価ともに上昇 17
（注）シャドー部分は前月と比較して見方を変更した項目
11． 世界景気 米国は底堅いが欧州、中国は弱い 米国は底堅いが欧州、中国は弱い 17
12． 世界の物価 原油価格上昇の影響が懸念材料 原油価格上昇の影響が懸念材料 18
13．原油（＊） 大幅上昇 一進一退 18
14． 国内金利 上昇 上昇 19
15． 米国金利 上昇 上昇 19
16． 国内株価 下落 急上昇 20
17． 米国株価 下落 急上昇 20
18． 為替 円は対ドルで下落 円は対ドルで下落後、急反発 21
19． 金融 マネーストックの伸びは鈍いが、銀行貸出は
堅調に増加
マネーストックは緩やかに増加し、銀行貸出
残高は堅調に増加 22

===== Page 48 =====

【主要経済指標の推移】

（注） 1．括弧書きのない場合、単位は前年比、% 
    2．月次値がある場合、四半期値は月次値からの計算値。ただし、月末値の場合は四半期末値。

25 25 25 25 26 25 25 26 26 26 26
1-
3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 11 12 1 2 3 4
実質GDP（前期比年率、％）  1.1  2.4 -2.6  1.3
短観業況判断DI（大企業製造業） 12 13 14 15 17 14 <26年6 月予想>
　　　　　　　（大企業非製造業） 35 34 34 34 36 29 < 26年6 月予想>
　　　　　　　（中小企業製造業） 2 1 1 6 7 4 <26年6 月予想>
          　　　   （中小企業非製造業） 16 15 14 15 16 8 <26年6 月予想>
景気 法人企業統計経常利益 （全産業、季節調整値、前期比） -2.3  1.7  3.8  1.6
全般 　　　　　　　　　　 （製造業、季節調整値、前期比） -13.1 -3.7  8.6  9.8
　　　　　　　　　　（非製造業、季節調整値、前期比）  4.3  4.4  1.6 -2.6 
景気動向指数（CI、先行指数）（15年= 100）  107.3  104.6  107.0  109.7  109.5  110.4  112.0  113.3
　　　　　　（CI、一致指数）（15年= 100）  116.3  115.8  114.7  115.1  114.9  114.6  118.1  116.3
　　　　　　（DI、先行指数）  53.0  25.8  60.6  80.3  77.3  81.8  75.0  75.0
　　　　　　（DI、一致指数）  41.7  33.3  30.0  61.7  80.0  35.0  77.8  61.1
景気の現状判断DI（景気ウォッチャー調査、季節調整値）  46.4  44.8  46.4  48.0  46.2  48.0  47.7  47.6  48.9  42.2
景気の先行き判断DI（景気ウォッチャー調査、季節調整値）  46.6  45.2  47.8  50.4  46.3  49.4  49.5  50.1  50.0  38.7
鉱工業生産（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  0.0 -0.5 - 1.0  0.2  2.5 -2.0  0.6  4.3 -2.0 -0.5 
鉱工業出荷（季節調整済、前期比・前月比） -0.3  0.3 - 0.9  0.4  1.3 -1.0 -1.1  3.8 -1.5 -1.1 
鉱工業在庫（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  0.6 -2.0  0. 1 -1.2 -2.0 -1.9  0.6 -0.8  0.3 -1.5 
第３次産業活動指数（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  1.3  0.7  0. 3  0.2 -0.5 -0.7  2.0 -0.4 
失業率（季節調整値、％）  2.5  2.5  2. 5  2.6  2.7  2.6  2.6  2.7  2.6  2.7
雇用 就業者数（季節調整値、万人）  6816  6823  6828  6845  6820 6846 6846 6817 6827 6815
・ 雇用者数（季節調整値、万人）  6172  6178  6186  6205  6190 6210 6208 6197 6197 6175
所得 新規求人倍率（季節調整値、倍）  2.29  2.21  2.15  2.13  2.12 2.14 2.14 2.11 2.10 2.15
有効求人倍率（季節調整値、倍） 1.25 1.23 1. 21 1.19 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.18 1.19 1.18
現金給与総額  2.3  2.2  2. 3  2.2  2.9  1.7  2.4  2.5  3.4  2.7
実質消費支出（二人以上の世帯 /農林漁家含む）  0.8  2.0  1.8 -0.9  2.9 -2.6 -1.0 -1.8 
　　　　　　（うち勤労者世帯 /農林漁家含む）  0.9  3.7  5.6  1.2  7.2 -3.6 -0.7  0.5
総消費動向指数（2020年基準）実質（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  0.4  0.4  0.5  0.0  0.1 -0.1  0.1  0.0
個人 新車販売台数（含む軽）  14.0  6.5 -4.4 -3.7 -5.4 -7.0 -0.8 -6.2 -7.3 -3.2  9.7
消費 新車販売台数（除く軽）  11.2  3.0 -6.2 -6.3 -8.4 -9.2 -1.6 -7.7 -9.8 -7.9  16.9
商業販売額・小売業  2.9  2.4 - 0.1  0.5  1.2  1.1 -0.9  1.8 -0.1  1.7
百貨店販売高・全国 -0.1 -6.7 - 1.2  1.0  2.1  0.9 -1.1  2.3  1.6  3.2
住宅 新設住宅着工戸数（季節調整済年率、千戸） 867 620 719 756 747 722 756 755 751 736
投資 　　　　　　　　（前年比、％） 11.6 -25.2 -9.0 -2.1 -13.8 -8.5 -1.3 -0.4 -4.9 -29.3 
設備 機械受注（民需/除船電、季節調整済、前月比）  3.5  0.6 -1.0  6.6 -9.2  16.1 -5.5  13.6
投資         （同前年比） 5.6 6.3 6.6 8.1 -6.4  16.8  13.7  24.7
公共投資 公共工事請負額 -3.6 9.5 8.6 9.6 17.3 -6.8  14.9  9.1  23.6  17.5
通関輸出（金額ベース、円建て） 7.4 -0.1 0. 3 4.9 10.5 6.1 5.1 16.8 4.0 11.5
実質輸出（季節調整済、前期比・前月比） 3.0 0.2 - 0.9 0.6 3.0  4.3 -2.2  6.2 -4.1 -0.5 
通関輸入（金額ベース、円建て）  6.1 -3.1 - 3.1  2.6  5.7  1.4  5.4 -2.6  10.3  10.9
実質輸入（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  3.8  1.3 - 0.9 -0.5  1.0  1.5  1.1 -2.8  6.8 -5.5 
経常収支（季節調整値、百億円）  745.1  744.3  839. 9  838.8  313.7  286.7  313.4  270.9
貿易収支（季節調整値、百億円） -125.3 -11.5  15. 8  46.3  41.9  4.0  72.8 -31.7 
 物    価 企業物価指数（国内）  4.3  3.3  2.6  2.6  2.4  2.7  2.4  2.3  2.1  2.6
消費者物価指数（除く生鮮）  3.1  3.5  2. 9  2.8  1.8  3.0  2.4  2.0  1.6  1.8
 金    融 マネーストック（ M2、平残）  1.1  0.6  1.3  1.7  1.8  1.7  1.7  1.6  1.7  2.0
　　　　　　　（M3、平残）  0.6  0.2  0.8  1.1  1.2  1.2  1.1  1.0  1.2  1.4
貸出平残（銀行計）  3.2  2.7  3. 8  4.6  5.0  4.5  4.8  4.9  4.9  5.2
 市場データ 原油価格（WTI 期近物、ドル /バレル） 71.5 63.8 65.0 59.1 72.1 59.5 57.9 60.1 64.5 91.0 98.1
（期中平均） 無担保コール翌日物（％） 0.416 0.477 0.477 0.504 0.728 0.478 0.557 0.728 0.728 0.728 0.727
東京ターム物リスク・フリー・レート（ TORF）3カ 月（％） 0.472 0.489 0.514 0.610 0.780 0.575 0.691 0.737 0.784 0.816 0.837
新発10年物国債利回り（％） 1.36 1.40 1.56 1.79 2.21 1.73 1.98 2.20 2.19 2.23 2.41
FFレート（％） 4.33 4.33 4.30 3.90 3.64 3.88 3.73 3.64 3.64 3.64 3.64
米国債10年物利回り（％） 4.45 4.36 4.26 4.10 4.20 4.09 4.14 4.21 4.13 4.25 4.32
日経平均株価（円） 38448 36764 42230 49598 54508 50111 50162 53077 56481 53965 57246
東証株価指数（TOPIX）（ポイント） 2741 2687 3016 3311 3667 3320 3388 3578 3779 3645 3727
ダウ工業株価指数（月末値、ドル） 42002 44095 46398 48063 46342 47716 48063 48892 48978 46342 49652
ナスダック株価指数（月末値、 1971/2/5=100） 17299 20370 22660 23242 21591 23366 23242 23462 22668 21591 24892
円相場（東京市場中心相場、円 /ドル） 152.5 144.5 147.4 154.0 156.9 155.1 155.9 156.7 155.1 158.6 159.3
円相場（東京市場17:00時点、円/ユーロ） 160.5 163.8 172.3 179.3 183.7 179.3 182.5 184.0 183.6 183.4 186.2
ドル相場（東京市場17:00時点、ドル/ユーロ） 1.05 1.13 1.17 1.16 1.17 1.16 1.17 1.17 1.18 1.16 1.17
経 済 指 標
生産
外需

===== Page 49 =====

1. 景気全般 ～緩やかに持ち直している 
2025 年 10～12 月期の実質 GDP 成長率（2 次速報）は前期比＋0.3%（年率換算＋1.3%）と 2 四半期ぶりの
プラス成長となった。個人消費や設備投資が増加し、制度変更の影響で大幅減となっていた住宅投資も持ち直
したことが押し上げに寄与した。2026 年 1～3 月期は日中関係悪化によるインバウンドの減少やイラン情勢緊迫
化が下押し要因となるものの、底堅い内需に支えられて景気は緩やかな回復を続けよう。

実質 GDP 成長率

実質 GDP 成長率の推移

（注）シャドー部分は内閣府による景気後退期 
（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」

-12
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25
（前年比、％）
（年、四半期）
-9
-6
-3
0
3
6
81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25
（前期比、％）
（年、四半期）
-3.0
-2.5
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
21 22 23 24 25
個人消費 設備投資 政府支出
純輸出 在庫 住宅
実質GDP成長率
（年、四半期）
（前期比、％）

===== Page 50 =====

-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
大企業製造業
大企業非製造業
中小企業製造業
中小企業非製造業
（年、四半期）
（％ポイント） 予測

3 月調査の日銀短観における大企業の業況判断 DI は、前回調査から製造業は改善、非製造業は横ばいとな
った。製造業では素材業種は横ばいだった一方、生産用機械などの加工業種は改善した。非製造業では宿泊・
飲食サービスなどが改善した一方、運輸・郵便などは悪化した。先行きは、イラン情勢の緊迫化が需要の減少や
コスト増加、供給制約になるとの懸念が強まっていることから、製造業、非製造業ともに悪化の見通しとなった。

日銀短観（業況判断 DI）

（注１）シャドー部分は内閣府による景気後退期 
（注２）2004年、07年、10年、15年、18年、22年、24年、26年の各 3月調査時点で
調査対象企業の見直しが行われたため、前後の系列にギャップがある。 
（出所）日本銀行「全国企業短期経済観測調査」

10～12 月期の企業業績（金融業・保険業を除く）は、売上高が前期比＋0.7%と 3 四半期ぶりに増加し、利益
率も前期から改善したため、経常利益は同＋1.6%と 3 四半期連続で増加した（業種別の経常利益は、製造業で
は前期比＋9.8%、非製造業では同－2.6%）。今後はトランプ関税や地政学リスクの高まり、金利の上昇、人件費
の増加などによる悪影響が懸念されるが、国内需要の持ち直しが下支えとなり、企業業績は底堅く推移しよう。

企業利益（経常利益）

（注）金融業、保険業を除く 
（出所）財務省「法人企業統計季報」 
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
24
26
28
30
32
00 03 06 09 12 15 18 21 24
（兆円、季節調整値）
（年、四半期）

===== Page 51 =====

2 月の CI 一致指数は前月差－1.8 ポイントと 2 カ月ぶりに低下した。発表済み 9 系列のうち 6 系列がマイナ
スに寄与した。中でも鉱工業用生産財出荷指数や投資財出荷指数（除輸送機械）のマイナス寄与が大きかった。
3 月の CI 一致指数は輸出数量指数や鉱工業用生産財出荷指数のプラス寄与が大きく、2 カ月ぶりに上昇する
と見込まれる。基調判断は「下げ止まり」から「上方への局面変化」に転じよう。

景気動向指数（CI・DI）

（出所）内閣府「景気動向指数」

3 月の景気ウォッチャー調査の現状判断 DI（季節調整値）は 42.2 と 2 カ月ぶりに低下した（前月差－6.7 ポイ
ント）。家計動向関連は、イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴う原油高を背景とした消費者の節約志向の高まりを受けて悪
化した。企業動向関連は、イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴うコスト増加や供給制約懸念を受けて製造業・非製造業とも
に悪化した。先行き判断DI（季節調整値）は2 カ月連続で低下しており、イラン問題の長期化が懸念されている。

景気ウォッチャー調査（季節調整値）

（注）景気の現状判断 DI は、家計動向関連業種、企業動向関連業種、雇用関連業種の景気ウォッチャ
ーによる景気判断から算出される。50 を上回ると「景気が良くなっている」、50 を下回ると「景気が
悪くなっている」という判断が優勢であることを示す。 
（出所）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」 
0
25
50
75
100
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
21 22 23 24 25 26
CI･先行指数(左目盛) CI･一致指数(左目盛)
DI･先行指数(右目盛) DI･一致指数(右目盛)
（年、月次）
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
21 22 23 24 25 26
景気の現状判断DI
景気の先行き判断DI
（年、月次）

===== Page 52 =====

2. 生産 ～横ばい 
3 月の鉱工業生産は前月比－0.5%と 2 カ月連続で減少した。輸送機械工業（除く自動車工業）などは増加し
たものの、無機・有機化学工業や汎用・業務用機械工業などが減少し、全体を押し下げた。製造業の生産活動
は均してみれば横ばいとなっている。製造工業生産予測調査では 4 月は前月比＋2.1%（同調査をもとにした経
済産業省の予測は同－0.7%）、5 月は同＋2.2%の計画だが、イラン情勢緊迫化により下振れる可能性がある。

鉱工業生産

（注）「×」は製造工業生産予測調査結果から計算したもの、「▲」は経済産業省による予測値から計算したもの 
（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」

（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」

90
95
100
105
110
21 22 23 24 25 26
生産 出荷 在庫
（年、月次）
（2020年＝100、季節調整値）
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
22 23 24 25 26
鉄鋼業
化学工業（除 医薬品）
生産用機械工業
（2020年＝100）
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
22 23 24 25 26
自動車工業
電子部品・デバイス
電気・情報通信機械工業
（2020年＝100）
（年、月次）

===== Page 53 =====

3 月の鉱工業出荷は、自動車工業や石油・石炭製品工業などを中心に前月比－1.1%と 2 カ月連続で減少し
た。また、前年比では自動車工業などを中心に＋2.0%と 2 カ月ぶりに増加した。在庫は、電気・情報通信機械工
業や無機・有機化学工業などを中心に前月比－1.5%と 2 カ月ぶりに減少した。また、前年比では鉄鋼・非鉄金
属工業や生産用機械工業などを中心に－4.9%と 14 カ月連続で減少した。

在庫循環図（左）および同概念図（右）

（注）数値は四半期・原数値の前年比、在庫は期末値  
 （出所）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」

2 月の第 3 次産業活動指数は、前月比－0.4%と 2 カ月ぶりに低下した。広義対個人サービスは低下した一
方、広義対事業所サービスは上昇した。具体的には、金融業・保険業や生活娯楽関連サービスなどは上昇した
ものの、小売業や卸売業などが低下し、全体を押し下げた。均してみれば、緩やかに上昇している。今後も国内
景気の回復に併せて持ち直していくと期待されるが、物価高やイラン情勢緊迫化を受けて下振れるリスクもある。

第 3 次産業活動指数

（出所）経済産業省「第 3 次産業活動指数」

96
98
100
102
104
106
108
21 22 23 24 25 26
（2019―2020年=100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
45度線
意図せざる
在庫減少局面
在庫積増し
局面
意図せざる
在庫増加局面
在庫調整
局面
（前年比、％）
在
庫（
縦
軸）
出荷（横軸） （前年比、％）
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20
在
庫（
縦
軸）
出荷（横軸）
（前年比、％）
（前年比、％）
21年1Q
23年1Q
22年1Q
24年1Q
26年1Q
25年1Q

===== Page 54 =====

3. 雇用 ～改善している 
3 月の完全失業率は 2.7%に上昇した。失業者（前月差＋1 万人）の増加は小幅だったが、就業者（同－12 万
人）が雇用者（同－22 万人）を中心に減少したため上昇した。2025 年平均の 2.5%を上回るが、失業者の増加
は、新たな求職や自発的な離職が原因であり、労働需給はタイトな状態にある。人件費増加などから企業の採用
が慎重化している可能性があるが、それでも人手不足感は依然として強く、雇用情勢は良好な状態を維持しよう。

失業率と就業者数

（出所）総務省「労働力調査」

3 月の有効求人倍率は前月差－0.01 ポイントの 1.18 倍に低下した。有効求職者数（前月比－0.7%）の減少
幅を、有効求人数（同－1.1%）の減少幅が上回った。新規求人倍率は前月差＋0.05 ポイントの 2.15 倍に上昇し
た。新規求職申込件数（前月比 ＋1.9%）の増加幅に対し、新規求人数（同＋ 4.4%）の増加幅が大きかった。人
手不足感は強いが、賃金の上昇から企業は新規採用に慎重になっており、有効求人倍率は低下基調が続こう。

有効求人倍率と新規求人倍率

（出所）厚生労働省「一般職業紹介状況」

1.7
1.8
1.9
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
21 22 23 24 25 26
有効求人倍率（左目盛）
新規求人倍率（右目盛）
（倍、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
（倍、季節調整値）
2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
3.0
3.1
3.2
6650
6675
6700
6725
6750
6775
6800
6825
6850
6875
21 22 23 24 25 26
就業者数（左目盛） 完全失業率（右目盛）
（年、月次）
（％、季節調整値）（万人、季節調整値）

===== Page 55 =====

4. 賃金 ～増加している 
3 月の一人当たり現金給与総額（速報）は前年比＋2.7%と増加した。特別給与（前年比－1.5%）は減少したが、
所定内給与（同＋3.2%）、所定外給与（同＋1.9%）とも堅調に増加した。また、足元の物価上昇率鈍化もあり、実
質賃金は同＋1.0%と 3 カ月連続でプラスとなった。2026 年春闘でも高い賃上げ率が達成されたと見込まれ、今
後も賃金の増加基調が維持されるうえ、目先は物価安定が予想され実質賃金はプラスでの推移が続こう。

現金給与総額と所定内・所定外給与

（注）現金給与総額、所定内給与は名目賃金指数から、所定外給与は月間現金給与額から計算  
（出所）厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」

5. 個人消費 ～緩やかに持ち直している 
2 月の二人以上世帯の実質消費支出は前月比＋1.5%と増加した。また日本の世帯全体の消費動向を表す 2
月の総消費動向指数（実質）は前月比＋0.0% とほぼ横ばいだった。基調としては、個人消費は緩やかに持ち直
している。消費者態度指数からみた消費者マインドはイラン情勢の緊迫化を受けて急激に悪化しつつあるものの、
実質雇用者報酬は引き続き緩やかな増加を続けており、個人消費は当面、緩やかな持ち直しが続こう。

実質消費支出（二人以上の世帯）と総消費動向指数（実質）

（出所）総務省「家計調査報告」、総務省「消費動向指数（CTI）」 
95
100
105
110
21 22 23 24 25 26
総消費動向指数（実質） 実質消費支出（二人以上の世帯)
（2020年＝100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
四半期平均（総消費動向指数（実質））
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-3.0
-1.5
0.0
1.5
3.0
4.5
6.0
21 22 23 24 25 26
現金給与総額（一人当たり）（左目盛）
所定内給与（左目盛）
所定外給与（右目盛）
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）
（前年比、％）

===== Page 56 =====

3 月の商業販売額（小売業）は前年比＋1.7%と 2 カ月ぶりに増加した。内訳をみると、自動車小売業や医薬
品・化粧品小売業、各種商品小売業、機械器具小売業、飲食料品小売業などは増加した一方、燃料小売業、織
物・衣服・身の回り品小売業、無店舗小売業は減少した。季節調整値は前月比＋1.3%と 2 カ月ぶりに増加した。
4 月の新車販売台数（乗用車、除く軽自動車）は前年比＋16.9%と増加した。

個人消費関連指標

（出所）日本自動車販売協会連合会「自動車国内販売」、経済産業省「商業動態統計」

4 月の消費者態度指数（二人以上の世帯、季節調整値）は前月差－1.1 ポイントと 2 カ月連続で低下した。内
訳をみると、「収入の増え方」は横ばいだったが、「暮らし向き」、「雇用環境」、「耐久消費財の買い時判断」の意
識指標が低下しており、特に「耐久消費財の買い時判断」の マイナス寄与が大きかった。消費者態度指数からみ
た消費者マインドは足元で悪化しており、節約志向の高まりが個人消費を下押しする可能性がある。

消費者態度指数

（注）消費者態度指数は、「暮らし向き」、「収入の増え方」、「雇用環境」、「耐久消費財の買い時判断」の 4 つの意識指標で
算出される。 
（出所）内閣府「消費動向調査」 
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
21 22 23 24 25 26
新車販売台数（乗用車＜除く軽＞）（左目盛）
商業販売額、小売業（右目盛）
（前年比、％） （前年比、％）
（年、月次）
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
21 22 23 24 25 26
（年、月次）

===== Page 57 =====

6. 住宅投資 ～横ばい 
10～12 月期の住宅投資（実質 GDP ベース、2 次速報）は前期比＋4.9%と 2 四半期ぶりに増加した。3 月の
住宅着工戸数は前年比－29.3% と 5 カ月連続で減少した。季節調整済年率換算値では 73.6 万戸（前月比   
－1.9%）と 3 カ月連続で減少した。省エネ基準への適合義務化などを前に生じた駆け込みの反動は解消したと
みられる。今後は金利上昇が下押し要因となる一方、所得環境の改善が下支えとなり一進一退が続こう。

住宅着工

（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」

7. 設備投資 ～緩やかに持ち直している 
10～12 月期の設備投資（実質 GDP ベース、2 次速報）は前期比＋1.3%と 2 四半期ぶりに増加した。設備投
資に先行する機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）は、2 月は前月比＋13.6%と 2 カ月ぶりに増加した。うち製造業
は前月比＋30.7%と増加し、非製造業（船舶・電力を除く）は同＋0.9% と増加した。均してみれば機械受注には
持ち直しの動きがみられ、受注残もあることから、今後も設備投資は緩やかな持ち直しが続こう。

機械受注と設備投資

（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」、「機械受注統計」 
 400
 600
 800
 1,000
 1,200
-40
-20
0
20
40
21 22 23 24 25 26
持家 貸家
分譲（戸建＋マンション） 新設住宅着工(左目盛)
着工戸数（季節調整値、年率換算）
（年、月次）
（千戸）（前年比、％）
新設住宅着工戸数
（季節調整済年率換算）（右目盛）
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
7000
8000
9000
10000
11000
12000
13000
21 22 23 24 25 26
（年、四半期・月次）
四半期平均
機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（左目盛）
（兆円、季節調整値）
設備投資（実質、右目盛）
（億円、季節調整値）
内閣府見通し

===== Page 58 =====

8. 公共投資 ～横ばい圏で推移している 
10～12 月期の公共投資（実質 GDP ベース、2 次速報）は、前期比－0.5%と 2 四半期連続で減少したが、均
してみれば横ばい圏で推移している。公共投資の先行指標である公共工事請負額は、3 月は国（含む独立行政
法人）と地方いずれからも増加し、全体では前年比＋17.5%と 4 カ月連続で増加した。今後も公共投資デフレー
ターの上昇が続くと見込まれることから、公共投資は横ばい圏で推移する可能性がある。

公共投資と公共工事請負額

（注）国は独立行政法人などを含む、地方は都道府県、市区町村、地方公社の合計 
（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」、北海道建設業信用保証、東日本建設業保証、 
    西日本建設業保証「公共工事前払金保証統計」

9. 輸出入・国際収支 ～輸出、輸入ともに横ばい 
3 月の実質輸出は前月比－0.5%と 2 カ月連続で減少した。均してみれば、横ばいとなっている。今後はイラン
情勢緊迫化による悪影響が中東向けを中心に拡大する一方、好調な AI 関連需要が下支えとなることから一進
一退が続くと見込まれる。また、3 月の実質輸入は前月比－5.5%と 2 カ月ぶりに減少した。均してみれば、横ば
いとなっている。今後は中東からの輸入停滞により下振れる可能性がある。

輸出

（出所）日本銀行「実質輸出入の動向」、内閣府

95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
実質輸出 輸出数量
（2020年=100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
21 22 23 24 25 26
地方（左目盛） 国（左目盛） 合計（左目盛）
実質公的固定資本形成（右目盛）
（兆円）（前年比、％）
（年、四半期・月次）

===== Page 59 =====

輸入

（出所）日本銀行「実質輸出入の動向」、内閣府

3 月の実質輸出を地域別にみると、米国向け（前月比＋ 3.3%）や EU 向け（同＋ 3.7%）、中国向け（同      
＋19.6%）、NIEs・ASEAN など向け（同＋1.8%）は増加した一方、中東などのその他向け（同－14.3%）は減少
した。また財別では、中間財（前月比＋6.4% ）、資本財（同＋5.7% ）、情報関連（同＋5.4% ）は増加したものの、
自動車関連（同－5.3%）やその他（同－3.0%）は減少した。

地域別実質輸出

（出所）日本銀行「実質輸出入の動向」

90
95
100
105
110
115
120
21 22 23 24 25 26
実質輸入 輸入数量
（2020年=100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 EU 中国
（年、月次）
（2020年=100、季節調整値）

===== Page 60 =====

2 月の経常収支（季節調整値）は 2 兆 7,090 億円の黒字となった。第一次所得収支の黒字幅が拡大し、第二
次所得収支の赤字幅も縮小したものの、貿易収支が主に輸入の増加により赤字に転じたこと、サービス収支の赤
字幅が拡大したことから、経常収支の黒字幅は前月から4,254 億円縮小した。3 月はイラン情勢緊迫化の影響で
貿易収支が改善することで、経常収支の黒字幅は拡大する可能性がある。

経常収支

（注）経常収支＝貿易収支＋サービス収支＋第一次所得収支＋第二次所得収支 
（出所）財務省「国際収支状況」

輸出入（国際収支ベース）

（出所）財務省「国際収支状況」

-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
21 22 23 24 25 26
貿易収支 サービス収支 第一次所得収支
第二次所得収支 経常収支
（年、月次）
（兆円、季節調整値）
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
21 22 23 24 25 26
輸出 輸入
（兆円）
（年、月次）

===== Page 61 =====

10. 物価 ～企業物価、消費者物価ともに上昇 
3 月の国内企業物価は前年比＋2.6%と 61 カ月連続で前年比プラスとなった。また 3 月の消費者物価の「生
鮮食品を除く総合」は前年比＋1.8%と 55 カ月連続で前年比プラスとなり、「生鮮食品及びエネルギーを除く総
合」も同＋2.4%と 48 カ月連続でプラスとなった。政府による種々の物価高対策により当面は安定した推移が見
込まれるものの、原油価格の上昇が企業のコスト転嫁を通じて物価の上振れにつながる可能性がある。

国内物価

（出所）日本銀行「企業物価指数」、総務省「消費者物価指数月報」

11. 世界景気 ～米国は底堅いが、欧州、中国は弱い 
世界景気は米国で底堅いが、欧州、中国は弱い動きが続いている。1～3 月期の実質 GDP 成長率は、米国
は前期比年率＋2.0%に加速した。個人消費は底堅く推移し、設備投資はおよそ 3 年ぶりの高い伸びを記録した。
一方、欧州は同＋0.6%に鈍化した。中国は外需の好調により前年比＋5.0%に加速した。先行き、米国は底堅い
ものの欧州、中国は弱い動きが続く見込みである。

米国・欧州・中国の実質 GDP 成長率

（出所）米商務省、欧州連合統計局、中国国家統計局 
-8.0
-4.0
0.0
4.0
8.0
12.0
16.0
20.0
-2.0
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
21 22 23 24 25 26
消費者物価（生鮮食品除く総合）全国（左目盛）
〃（生鮮食品及びｴﾈﾙｷﾞ除く総合）全国（左目盛）
〃（生鮮食品除く総合）東京都区部（左目盛）
国内企業物価（右目盛）
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）
（前年比、％）
-4
0
4
8
12
16
20
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
21 22 23 24 25 26
米国（左目盛） ユーロ圏（左目盛） 中国（右目盛）
（年、四半期）
（前期比年率、％） （前年比、％）

===== Page 62 =====

12. 世界の物価 ～原油価格上昇の影響が懸念材料 
世界の消費者物価上昇率は加速した。3 月の上昇率は米国が前年比＋3.3%と 2 年ぶりの水準に加速した。
ユーロ圏も 4 月に同＋3.0%とおよそ 2 年半ぶりの高い上昇率となった。中国も 3 月に同＋1.0%と食料品価格の
上昇などにより 6 カ月連続で上昇した。先行き、原油価格上昇の影響により、世界の消費者物価上昇率は一段と
上昇する見込みである。

米国・欧州・中国の消費者物価上昇率

（出所）米労働省、欧州連合統計局、中国国家統計局 
13. 原油 ～一進一退 
4 月のブレント原油は一進一退となった。ホルムズ海峡の封鎖状況などイラン情勢を巡って、市場の思惑が交
錯し不安定な推移となった。28 日にはアラブ首長国連邦（UAE）が石油輸出国機構（OPEC）からの脱退を表明
した。また、5 月 3 日には「OPEC プラス」の有志 7 カ国が 6 月に日量 18.8 万バレル増産することを決定した。イ
ラン情勢を巡って戦争終結期待が浮上しているが、予断を許さず、原油相場は不安定な推移が見込まれる。

原油価格の推移

（注）月中平均 
（出所）NYMEX, ICE 
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 ユーロ圏 中国
（年、月次）
（前年比、％）
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2月 3月 4月 5月
WTI原油（右目盛）
北海ブレント原油（右目盛）
（月、日次）
（ドル/バレル）【日次】
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
WTI原油（期近物）
北海ブレント原油（期近物）
（ドル/バレル）
（年、月次）
【月次】

===== Page 63 =====

14. 国内金利～上昇 
4 月の長期金利（新発 10 年国債利回り）は上昇。月初からイラン情勢悪化と原油価格急騰への懸念から上昇
圧力が強まったが、米イランの 2 週間の停戦合意や、和平交渉協議の決裂後も再協議への期待感が高まったこ
とから中旬には低下に転じた。しかし、根強いインフレ懸念や米金利上昇を受けて月末には一時 2.535%と約 27
年ぶりの水準まで上昇した。今後もインフレや財政悪化への懸念で金利はさらに上昇する可能性がある。

国内金利

（注）3 カ月金利は 2021 年 4 月までは TIBOR、それ以降は TORF 
（出所）日本銀行、QUICK

15. 米国金利 ～上昇 
4 月の米長期金利は上昇。米イランの 2 週間の停戦合意を受けて原油価格が下落したことなどから中旬にか
けて低下する局面もあったが、米イランの戦闘終結に向けた協議が決裂したことで原油価格が急騰しインフレ懸
念が強まったこと、米連邦準備制度理事会（FRB ）による利下げ観測が後退したことで月末にかけて上昇が続い
た。インフレ懸念は根強く、金利はさらに上昇する可能性がある。

米国金利

（出所）日本経済新聞、FRB（米連邦準備制度理事会） 
 0.50
 1.00
 1.50
 2.00
 2.50
2月 3月 4月 5月
（月、日次）
【日次】 （％）
TORF3ヵ月（右目盛）
新発10年物国債利回り（右目盛）
-0.50
0.00
0.50
1.00
1.50
2.00
2.50
3.00
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
無担保コール翌日物
TORF3ヵ月
新発10年物国債利回り
（年、月次）
（％）【月次】
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
米国債10年物利回り
FF金利
（年、月次）
（％）【月次】
3.95
4.00
4.05
4.10
4.15
4.20
4.25
4.30
4.35
4.40
4.45
4.50
2月 3月 4月 5月
米国債10年物利回り
（月、日次）
（％）

===== Page 64 =====

16. 国内株価～急上昇 
4 月の日経平均株価は急上昇。イラン情勢改善への期待から日経平均株価は1 日に急騰後、米イランの 2 週
間の停戦合意を受け 8 日に 2,800 円超上昇。米イランの直接協議は合意に至らず反落したが、戦闘終結への
根強い期待感を背景に高値圏での推移が続き、27 日には一部の半導体、AI 関連銘柄中心に終値で初めて 6
万円台に乗せ、5 月連休後には一時 6 万 3 千円台まで上昇した。当面、イラン情勢に振り回される動きが続こう。

日本株価

（出所）日本経済新聞

17. 米国株価～急上昇 
4 月の米国株価は急上昇。イラン情勢改善への期待感と悪化への懸念から売り買いが交錯したが、米イランの
停戦合意を好感して急上昇。その後、直接協議の失敗、イランのホルムズ海峡再封鎖などで軟調となる局面もあ
ったが、イラン情勢の先行きへの楽観論、良好な企業決算などで上昇が続き、5 月には AI 需要への期待感でナ
スダック総合指数が最高値を更新するなど一段高となった。当面、イラン情勢に振り回される動きが続こう。

米国株価

（出所）Dow Jones, NASDAQ 
0
400
800
1,200
1,600
2,000
2,400
2,800
3,200
3,600
4,000
4,400
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
40,000
45,000
50,000
55,000
60,000
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
日経平均株価（左目盛）
東証株価指数（TOPIX）（右目盛）
（円）
（年、月次）
【月次】 （ポイント）
50,000
51,000
52,000
53,000
54,000
55,000
56,000
57,000
58,000
59,000
60,000
61,000
62,000
63,000
2月 3月 4月 5月
日経平均株価（右目盛）
（月、日次）
（円）【日次】
45,000
45,500
46,000
46,500
47,000
47,500
48,000
48,500
49,000
49,500
50,000
50,500
2月 3月 4月 5月
（月、日次）
（ドル）【日次】
ダウ（右目盛）
0
3,000
6,000
9,000
12,000
15,000
18,000
21,000
24,000
27,000
30,000
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
40,000
45,000
50,000
55,000
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
ダウ（左目盛）
ナスダック（右目盛）
（ドル）
（年、月次）
【月次】 （ポイント）

===== Page 65 =====

18. 為替～円は対ドルで下落後、急反発 
4 月の円は対ドルで下落。円は、イラン情勢の悪化を受けて原油価格が急騰したことや、有事のドル買いの動
きから上旬に一時 160 円台まで下落したが、米国とイランが 2 週間の停戦に合意したため、157 円台まで反発し
た。しかし、11～12 日に行われた米イラン代表団の直接和平協議は合意に至らず、イランがホルムズ海峡を再封
鎖するなど緊張状態が続く中で、円は 159 円台の安値圏でもみ合った後、28 日の日銀金融政策決定会合後の
植田総裁の記者会見の内容がハト派寄りだったと受け止められた一方、 29 日の米連邦公開市場委員会
（FOMC）の声明がタカ派的とされたことで円安が進み、30 日には一時 160 円 70 銭台と約 1 年 9 カ月ぶりの安
値を付けた。これを受け、同日夕方以降に片山財務相などから円安へのけん制が強まった後、海外市場におい
て大規模な円買い介入が実施されたとみられ、円は 155 円 50 銭台まで急反発した。イラン情勢悪化への懸念
は根強いが、5 月に入っても断続的に円買い介入が実施されており、介入への警戒感により、しばらくは円の下
値は限られよう。

ドル・円相場 （1）

（出所）日本銀行 
為替相場 （2）

（出所）日本銀行 
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
ドル・円相場
（年、月次）
（円/ドル）【月次】
152
153
154
155
156
157
158
159
160
161
162
2月 3月 4月 5月
ドル・円相場（右目盛）
（月、日次）
（円/ドル）【日次】
↑円安・ドル高
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
ユーロ・円相場（左目盛）
ユーロ・ドル相場（右目盛）
（年、月次）
（円/ユーロ） （ドル/ユーロ）
↑ドル安・ユーロ高
円安・ユーロ高
【月次】
1.14
1.15
1.16
1.17
1.18
1.19
1.20
1.21
2月 3月 4月 5月
ユーロ・ドル相場（右目盛）
（月、日次）
↑ドル安・ユーロ高
（ドル/ユーロ）【日次】

===== Page 66 =====

19. 金融～マネーストックは緩やかに増加し、銀行貸出残高は堅調に増加 
日銀は 2025 年 12 月の金融政策決定会合において、無担保コールレート（オーバーナイト物）の目標水準を
0.75%に引き上げた（今次利上げ局面では 2024 年 7 月、2025 年 1 月に続き 3 回目）。また、実質金利が極め
て低い水準にあるため、今後も経済・物価情勢の改善に応じて政策金利を引き上げ、金融緩和の度合いを調整
していくとの方針を示しているが、イラン情勢の悪化後の原油価格急騰による物価上昇懸念の一方で、景気の下
振れリスクもあるとして、4 月 28 日の金融政策決定会合での利上げは見送られた。金融を巡る動きとしては、3 月
マネーストック（M2）は前年比＋2.0%と緩やかに増加している一方、3 月銀行貸出残高は同＋5.2%と堅調に増
加している。

マネーストックと銀行貸出

（注）マネーストック（M2,M3）の伸び率は 04 年 3 月まで 
   各々 M2+CD、M3+CD－金銭信託 
（出所）日本銀行「マネーストック」、「貸出・預金動向」

-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
マネーストック（M2）平残
マネーストック（M3）平残
貸出平残（銀行計）
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）

===== Page 67 =====

景気予報ガイド 
【今月の景気判断】 
○レポート発表時における景気判断。【今月の景気予報】における各項目の現況をもとに総合的に判断。

【今月の景気予報】 
○3 カ月前～・・・3 カ月前～現況の「方向感」を、①改善、②横ばい、③悪化の 3 段階に分類。 
○現況 ・・・・・各項目の現在の「水準」を、①晴れ、②曇り、③雨の 3 段階に分類。 
○～3 カ月後・・・現況～3 カ月後の「方向感」を、①改善、②横ばい、③悪化の 3 段階に分類。

（注）現況をあらわす天気マークはあくまで「水準」を判断したもので、3 カ月前～の矢印が①改善、③悪化の場合で
も、必ずしも天気マークが変更されるわけではない。

【当面の注目材料】 
○各項目の現況、見通しをふまえて、今後景気を判断する上で注目すべきポイント。

【各項目のヘッドライン】 
○全 19 項目について、毎月簡単なヘッドラインを記載、当月と前月のものを対比して示している。 
○右端は各項目のグラフが掲載されているページ数。

【前月からの変更点】 
○景気予報において判断の変更があった場合に変更理由を記載。 
○ヘッドラインに記載されている市場データ（原油・金利・株価・為替）については記載せず。

【主要経済指標の推移】 
○当レポートで用いられている経済指標の半年間の動きを掲載。

===== Page 68 =====

経済調査
欧州景気概況（2026年5月）
2026年5月8日調査部 主任研究員土田 陽介

===== Page 69 =====

1Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況① 景気は減速している
ユーロ圏の1-3月期の実質GDP（速報値）は前期比+0.1%と、2四半期連続で増勢が鈍化した。主要国別には、ドイツが同+0.3%と前期（同+0.2%）から成長率が拡大した反面で、フランスが同横ばいと2四半期連続で成長率が低下した。一方、最新2026年4月の景況感指数は93.0と3カ月連続で低下した。
（出所）欧州連合統計局（ユーロスタット）（出所）欧州委員会ECFIN
実質GDP景況感指数

===== Page 70 =====

2Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況② 生産は低迷している
ユーロ圏の2月の鉱工業生産は前月比+0.4%と3カ月ぶりに増加した。資本財や非耐久消費財の生産が反発したが、生産全体の動きは均すと下向きのまま。一方、同月の名目輸出は同+0.9%と再び増加したが、均した動きは横ばい。
（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）ユーロスタット
鉱工業生産 名目輸出
（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）ユーロスタット
-4-2024681012141694959697989910010110210310421 22 23 24 25 26
前月比（右目盛）水準（左目盛）
（2021年=100、季調済）
（年、月）
（%）
-15-10-50510152025303518019020021022023024025026027028021 22 23 24 25 26
前月比（右目盛）水準（左目盛）
（10億ユーロ、季調済）
（年、月）
（%）

===== Page 71 =====

3Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況③ 消費は悪化している
ユーロ圏の3月の小売数量は前月比▲0.1%と3カ月連続で減少し、均した動きも下向き。一方、3月の新車販売台数は前月比+3.0%の年率959万台と2カ月連続で増加したが、均した水準は横ばい。
小売数量 新車販売台数
（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）欧州中央銀行（ECB）（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）ユーロスタット
567891021 22 23 24 25 26
（百万台、季調済年率）
（年、月）

===== Page 72 =====

4Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況④ 雇用は完全雇用の状態
ユーロ圏の3月の雇用統計では、失業率が6.2%と再び低下した一方、失業者数は前月差6.3万人減と減少に転じた。失業率・失業者数とも一進一退が続いており、完全雇用の状態と判断される。失業率を主要国別に確認すると、いずれの国も年明け以降は横ばいで推移している。
失業率と失業者数
（出所）ユーロスタット （出所）ユーロスタット
主要国別失業率

===== Page 73 =====

5Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況⑤ インフレが加速している
ユーロ圏の4月の消費者物価（総合ベース）は前年比+3.0%と、伸びが3カ月連続で加速した。うちエネルギー価格は同+10.9%と、イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴う急騰が鮮明である。また生産者物価（建設除く総合）は3月時点で同+2.0%と、7カ月ぶりにプラスに転じた。
消費者物価 生産者物価
（出所）ユーロスタット（出所）ユーロスタット
0123456789101121 22 23 24 25 26
総合コア
（前年比、%）
（年、月） -40-20020406080100120-20-10010203040506021 22 23 24 25 26
エネルギー価格（右目盛）建設除く総合（左目盛）
（前年比、%）
（年、月）
（前年比、%）

===== Page 74 =====

6Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況⑥ECBは4月理事会で金利を据え置き
欧州中央銀行（ECB）は4月30日に政策理事会の結果を公表し、政策金利（預金ファシリティ金利）を年2%で据え置いた。金利据え置きの決定は全会一致だったが、ドイツ連銀のヨアヒム・ナーゲル総裁などタカ派のECB高官を中心に、次回6月の理事会（結果公表は6月11日）で利上げを実施する可能性が高いとの言及が会合後に相次いだ。
政策金利（預金ファシリティ金利）ユーロシステムのバランスシート
（出所）ECB（出所）ECB4.04.55.05.56.06.57.07.58.08.59.021 22 23 24 25 26
（兆ユーロ）
（年、月）

===== Page 75 =====

7Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況⑦ 金利は上昇、株価も上昇
ユーロ圏主要国の4月の長期金利は上昇した。イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴うエネルギー価格の高騰が材料視され、インフレ懸念から国債が売られた。一方、同月の株価は上昇した。堅調な企業業績が相場を押し上げた反面で、イラン情勢の緊迫化が相場の重しとなった。
10年国債流通利回り 株価（EURO STOXX 50）
（出所）STOXX（出所）各国中銀

===== Page 76 =====

8Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
ユーロ圏景気概況⑧ ユーロは対ドルで上昇、対円で横ばい
ユーロ相場 経常収支
（出所）ECB、ユーロスタット（出所）ECB
EUの通貨ユーロの4月の相場は対ドルで上昇、対円で横ばいとなった。いわゆる“有事のドル買い”が一服し、対ドルでユーロ高が進んだ。一方、対円でも月下旬までユーロ高が進んだが、月末に日銀による為替介入が行われ、月間では横ばいとなった。経常収支は、財収支（貿易）黒字が高止まりしており、実需面からのユーロ買い圧力は安定している。
1201301401501601701801900.951.001.051.101.151.201.251.3021 22 23 24 25 26
対ドルレート（左目盛）対円レート（右目盛）
（ドル/ユーロ）
（年、月）
（円/ユーロ）
-2-1012345621 22 23 24 25 26
財 サービス一次所得収支二次所得収支経常収支
（対GDP比、%）
（年、四半期）

===== Page 77 =====

9Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況① 景気は低迷している
英国の2025年10-12月期の実質GDP（確定値）は前期比+0.1%と、7-9月期と同じ伸びになった。主要な需要項目別には、個人消費が底堅かった反面で、総固定資本形成や輸出が減少した。一方、最新2026年2月の月次GDPは前月比+0.5%と2カ月連続で増勢が加速した。
実質GDP主要な需要項目
（出所）ONS（出所）英国立統計局（ONS）
88909294969810010210421 22 23 24 25 26
月次GDP四半期GDP
（2023年=100、季調済）
（年、月）

===== Page 78 =====

10Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況② 生産は低迷している
英国の2月の鉱工業生産は前月比+0.5%と3カ月ぶりに増加した。一方、同月の実質輸出は同▲3.8%と減少したが、いずれも均した動きは低位横ばい。他方で、同月のサービス業生産は同+0.5%と増勢が再び加速し、均した動きは上向き。
鉱工業生産と実質輸出サービス業生産
（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）ONS（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）ONS

===== Page 79 =====

11Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況③ 消費は回復している
英国の3月の小売数量（除く石油）は前月比+0.2%と再び増加し、均した動きは上向き。また同月の新車販売台数（乗用車）は前年比+6.6%と4カ月連続で前年水準を上回り、均した動きもプラスを維持。市場規模は年率205万台レベル。
小売数量 新車販売台数（乗用車）
（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）ONS（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）英国自動車工業会（SMMT）

===== Page 80 =====

12Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況④ 雇用は悪化が一服
英国の2月の雇用統計では、失業率（3カ月移動平均）が4.9%と前月（5.2%）から低下した。失業率の低下は非労働力人口の増加によるところが大きい。また失業者数は前月差8.9万人減と、2カ月連続で減少した。一方、賃金の増勢は、物価変動の影響を除いた実質ベースでは前年比1%増程度まで鈍化した。
失業率 平均賃金（週給）
（注）3カ月の平均値（出所）ONS（注）灰色線は3カ月移動平均（出所）ONS

===== Page 81 =====

13Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況⑤ インフレは高止まりしている
消費者物価 生産者物価（産出ベース）
（出所）ONS（出所）ONS
英国の3月の消費者物価は、総合ベースが前年比+3.3%、変動が激しい項目を除いたコアベースが同+3.1%と、いずれも伸びが高止まりした。一方、同月の生産者物価（産出ベース）は同+2.5%と2月（同+1.8%）から伸びが加速した。イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴う燃料価格の高騰で、4月はインフレが一段と加速する公算。

===== Page 82 =====

14Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況⑥BOEは4月委員会で金利を据え置き
イングランド銀行（BOE）は4月30日に金融政策委員会（MPC）の結果を公表し、政策金利であるバンクレートを年3.75%に据え置いた。イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴うエネルギー価格の高騰を受けて、BOEは先行きの物価動向に神経を尖らせている。次回のMPCの結果は6月18日に公表される。
政策金利（バンクレート）BOEの国債保有高
（出所）BOE（出所）イングランド銀行（BOE）
0.40.50.60.70.80.921 22 23 24 25 26（年、四半期）
（兆ポンド）

===== Page 83 =====

15Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況⑦ 金利は上昇、株価も上昇
英国の4月の長期金利は上昇した。イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴うエネルギー価格の高騰が材料視され、インフレ懸念から国債が売られた。一方、同月の株価は上昇した。堅調な企業業績が相場を押し上げた反面で、イラン情勢の緊迫化が相場の重しとなった。
長短金利（10年債と3カ月債） 株価（FT30指数）
（出所）Financial Times（出所）BOE

===== Page 84 =====

16Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
英国景気概況⑧ ポンドは対ドルで上昇、対円で横ばい
英国の通貨ポンドの4月の相場は対ドルで上昇、対円で横ばいとなった。いわゆる“有事のドル買い”が一服し、対ドルでポンド高が進んだ。一方、対円でも月下旬までポンド高が進んだが、月末に日銀による為替介入が行われ、月間では横ばいとなった。経常収支は、名目GDPの2%を超える赤字が定着しており、実需面からのポンド買い圧力は弱い。
ポンド相場 経常収支
（出所）BOE、ONS（出所）BOE

===== Page 85 =====

===== Page 86 =====

===== Page 87 =====

経済調査
中国景気概況（2026年5月）
2026年5月8日調査部 副主任研究員丸山 健太

===== Page 88 =====

1Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting0123456723 24 25 26（年、四半期）
（前年比、%）
48505254565860 23  24  25  26（年、月）
製造業非製造業
（%）
景気は弱い動きも、一時的に加速
中国景気は弱い動きが続く中、インフレ関連を中心とした投資の持ち直しなどで、足元では一時的に加速した。2026年1～3月期の実質GDP成長率は前年比＋5.0%と前期から伸びが拡大し、政府目標である「4.5～5%」の範囲内で推移した。4月の製造業PMIは低下したが、好不況の境目である50を2カ月連続で上回った。ただし、中東情勢の混乱を背景に、石油・石炭や化学などの生産や受注は低迷した。非製造業PMIも低下して50を下回るなど、景気の基調は依然弱い。
（出所） 国家統計局（出所） 国家統計局
PMI実質GDP（四半期）

===== Page 89 =====

2Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting-20-15-10-50510 23  24  25  26（年、月）
全体うち民間うち不動産うち製造業
（年初来累計、前年比、%）
012345678 23  24  25  26（年、月）
（前年比、%）
固定資産投資、生産とも増加幅が縮小
3月の固定資産投資（年初来累計値）は前年比＋1.7%と、前月から増加幅が縮小した。投資は依然弱いものの、季節調整済み前月比は3カ月連続でプラスとなるなど、年明け以降、持ち直しの動きがみられる。3月の工業生産は前年比＋5.7%と、前月から増加幅が縮小した。品目別では、工業用ロボット（前年比＋24.4%）や集積回路（同＋20.6%）の大幅な伸びが続いた。消費や投資など需要が弱い中、生産は底堅く推移している。
（出所） 国家統計局 （出所） 国家統計局
固定資産投資 工業生産

===== Page 90 =====

3Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting-1.0-0.50.00.51.01.52.02.5 23  24  25  26（年、月）
（前年比、%）
消費は政策効果剥落で増加幅が縮小、物価は上昇
3月の小売売上高（名目）は前年比＋1.7%と、前月から伸びが縮小した。一昨年の秋から続く政府の買い替え促進策は、スマートフォンなど通信機器（前年比＋27.3%）を引き続き押し上げた。一方、同じく補助対象の自動車（同－11.8%）や家具（同－8.7%）、家電（同－5.0%）は減少しており、政策効果は概ね剥落したとみられる。3月の消費者物価は前年比＋1.0%と伸びは縮小したものの、エネルギー価格の上昇を背景に、前年比で上昇が続いた。
（出所） 国家統計局
小売売上高（名目） 消費者物価指数
02468101214161820 23  24  25  26（年、月）
（前年比、%）
（出所） 国家統計局

===== Page 91 =====

4Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting02004006008001,0001,2001,400 23  24  25  26（年、月）
米国以外米国（億ドル）
-30-20-10010203040 23  24  25  26（年、月）
輸出輸入
（前年比、%）
輸出は増加幅が縮小、輸入は増加幅が拡大
3月の輸出は前年比＋2.5%と、5カ月連続で増加したものの、昨年同月にトランプ関税前の駆け込みで大きく増加した反動などから、前月から増加幅は大きく縮小した。輸入は同＋27.8%と、10カ月連続で増加した。国別では、香港や韓国、日本などアジアからの輸入の増加が大きかった。貿易黒字は511億ドルと前年同月（1,026億ドル）から大幅に縮小した。輸出減の大きかった対米黒字の縮小や、輸入増を背景とした対韓国、対日本の赤字拡大が寄与した。
（出所） 海関総署 （出所） 海関総署
財輸出入 貿易収支

===== Page 92 =====

5Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
6.66.87.07.27.47.63,0003,1003,2003,3003,4003,500 23  24  25  26
（10億ドル）
（年、月）
外貨準備高（左目盛）人民元対ドル（右目盛）
（人民元/ドル）
為替は元高、株価は上昇
人民元の対ドルレート（4月末）は1ドル＝6.83元だった。大幅な貿易黒字に加え、中国人民銀行が元高容認姿勢を強めているとの観測から、ドル安・元高が進んだ。3月末の外貨準備高は3兆3,421億ドルと減少した。4月の上海総合株価指数は、米国とイランの停戦協議は難航しつつも、事態の一段の悪化への懸念が後退したことなどから、月間を通じて上昇した。業種別指数は、ほとんどの系列が上昇する中、「情報」と「通信」の伸びが大きかった。
外貨準備高 上海総合株価指数
（出所） 中国人民銀行、中国外貨交易センター
2,6002,8003,0003,2003,4003,6003,8004,0004,200 23  24  25  26（年、日）

（90/12/20=100）
3,8503,9003,9504,0004,0504,1004,1502026/4
（90/12/20=100）
(年/月、日）26/4
（出所） 上海証券交易所

===== Page 93 =====

6Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting-2-101234567823 24 25 26
最終消費総資本形成純輸出
（前年比、%）
（年、四半期）
-4-2024681012
第一次産業
第二次産業
うち製造業
うち建設業
第三次産業
うち運輸・郵便
うち小売・卸売
うち宿泊・飲食
うち金融
うち不動産
うち情報通信
（前年比、%）
2026年1～3月期のGDP① 実質GDPの伸びは前期から拡大
2026年1～3月期の実質GDP成長率は前年比＋5.0%と、前期から伸びが拡大した（1頁参照）。需要項目別では、輸入が大きく増加したことで純輸出のプラス寄与が縮小した一方、ソフトウェアや研究開発など知的財産・無形資産投資やインフラ投資の増加を背景に、総資本形成の寄与度拡大が目立った（左図）。業種別では、不動産不況が長引く中、建設業と不動産業のマイナスが続いた（右図） 。一方、需要不足にもかかわらず生産活動は堅調だったことから、製造業の増加幅拡大が大きく、GDP全体を押し上げた。

実質GDP成長率（需要項目別寄与度）実質GDP成長率（業種別、2026年1～3月期、前年比）
（出所） 国家統計局 （出所） 国家統計局

===== Page 94 =====

7Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting-1.5-1.0-0.50.00.51.023 24 25 26
（前年比、%）
（年、四半期）
-4-3-2-1012
第一次産業
第二次産業
うち製造業
うち建設業
第三次産業
うち運輸・郵便
うち小売・卸
うち宿泊・飲食
うち金融
うち不動産
うち情報通信
（前年比、%）
2026年1～3月期のGDP②GDPデフレーターはマイナス幅縮小
経済全体の物価動向を反映するGDPデフレーターは前年比－0.1%と、12期連続でマイナスとなった（左図）。もっとも、低下幅は前期から大きく縮小した。業種別では、企業間の価格競争を背景に大幅なマイナスが続いていた製造業の低下幅が大きく縮小した（右図）。その一方で、不動産不況の影響で需要の弱い不動産業や建設業のマイナスが目立った。今後は、中東情勢の不安定化に伴うエネルギー価格の上昇が国内物価を押し上げることで、GDPデフレーターは4～6月期にプラスに転じることが予想される。
GDPデフレーター（前年比）業種別GDPデフレーター（2026年1～3月期）

（注）GDPデフレータの変化率＝（名目GDP成長率）－（実質GDP成長率）（出所） 国家統計局 （出所） 国家統計局

===== Page 95 =====

8Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting901001101201301401501601701801 2 3 4
ポリプロピレン氷酢酸液化天然ガスガソリン
（2026年第1週＝100）
（旬、月）-6-4-2024681022 23 24 25 26
（前年比、%）
（年、月）
中東情勢の不安定化でエネルギー価格が上昇
2月末の米国・イスラエルによるイランへの攻撃を受けて、中東情勢が急速に不安定化した。世界で消費される原油の約2割が通過するホルムズ海峡が事実上封鎖されたことで、原油の国際価格は急上昇し、中東産ドバイ原油の価格は1バレル100ドルを上回る高値圏で推移している。これを受けて、中国国内の原油関連製品の価格も大きく上昇した（左図）。エネルギー価格の上昇を受けて、生産者物価指数（PPI）は3年半ぶりに前年比で上昇に転じた（右図）。PPIは今後もコストプッシュ要因による上昇が見込まれるが、需要の弱さからコスト高の転嫁は困難で、企業業績は下押しされるとみられる。

中国国内の生産要素価格の推移（10日ごと） 生産者物価指数
（出所） 国家統計局 （出所） 国家統計局

===== Page 96 =====

===== Page 97 =====

===== Page 98 =====

2026 年 5 月 7 日

調査レポート

今月のグラフ（2026 年 5 月）

「高根の花」となった東京の新築マンション

調査部 主任研究員 藤田 隼平

東京 23 区内の新築マンション価格の高騰が続いている。不動産経済研究所によると、2025 年に東京 23 区
内で新たに発売された分譲マンションの平均価格は 1 億 3,613 万円（前年比＋21.8%）と、過去最高を更新した。 
こうした価格動向は 市況の堅調さを示す一方で、 実需層にとっては 都区部の新築マンション が「高根の花」で
ある状況に拍車を掛けている。例えば、返済期間 35 年のフルローン（固定金利、元利均等返済方式）を前提に、
年収の 25%を住宅ローンの返済に充てると仮定すると、コロナ前は世帯年収 1,000 万円程度で 23 区内の新築
マンションを購入できたが、足元では 2,000 万円程度が必要となる計算だ。仮に変動金利を利用し、固定金利よ
りも低い年利 1%で借り入れが可能な場合でも、必要な世帯年収は 1,800 万円程度となる。 
厚生労働省「国民生活基礎調査」によると、2023 年時点で世帯年収 1,000 万円以上の世帯は全国で 12.3%
いるのに対し、世帯年収 2,000 万円以上に限るとわずか 1.4%にとどまる。今後、実需層による購入のハードルが
さらに高まれば、新築マンションの購入主体が投資マネーに偏ることで、市場の不安定化を招くリスクがある。

図表 東京 23 区の新築マンション価格と必要世帯年収

（注）必要世帯年収=12×物件価格÷返済割合÷{[(1+月利/100)^(借入年数×12)−1]÷[(1+月利/100)^(借入
年数×12)×(月利/100)]}として計算。金利には各時点の住宅金融支援機構「フラット 35」の値を使用。 
（出所）新築マンション価格は不動産経済研究所。必要年収は当社推計値。  
1023
2123
7286
13613
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
14000
16000
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
2005 10 15 20 25
必要世帯年収 新築マンション価格（目盛右）
（年）
（万円） （万円）

===== Page 99 =====

===== Page 100 =====

1 / 2

前期比(%)
年率
実質GDP 0.5 0.3 0.6 － 0.7 0.3 0.3 1.0
同 　   (年  率) 1.9 1.1 2.4 － 2.6 1.3 1.0
同　    (前年同期比) 0.6 1.6 2.1 0.7 0.4 0.8
内需寄与度　　　　　 (*) － 0.3 0.9 0.5 － 0.4 0.3 0.0 0.1
個人消費 0.0 0.7 0.2 0.5 0.3 0.1 0.4
住宅投資 0.6 － 0.2 0.0 － 8.4 4.9 － 0.9 － 3.4
設備投資 － 0.5 0.5 1.2 － 0.0 1.3 － 0.6 － 2.5
民間在庫　　　　　 (*) － 0.2 0.4 0.0 － 0.2 － 0.3 0.1 0.3
政府最終消費 0.0 － 0.2 0.7 0.1 0.4 0.0 0.0
公共投資 － 0.5 － 0.1 0.2 － 1.3 － 0.5 0.9 3.8
外需寄与度　　　　　 (*) 0.8 － 0.6 0.1 － 0.3 － 0.0 0.2 1.0
輸出 1.7 － 0.2 1.9 － 1.4 － 0.3 0.8 3.2
輸入 － 1.9 2.5 1.4 － 0.1 － 0.3 － 0.3 － 1.3
名目GDP 1.1 0.9 2.2 － 0.0 0.9 1.0 4.1
同  　  (年  率) 4.5 3.5 9.0 － 0.2 3.5 4.1
同 　   (前年同期比) 3.7 5.3 5.4 4.1 3.9 4.1
3.0 3.6 3.2 3.5 3.4 3.3
10-12 1-3 4-6
2024 年
7-9 10-12
2025 年
1-3
2026 年
GDPデフレーター
　　　　　　(前年同期比)
2026 年 4 月 30 日

調査レポート

2026 年 1～3 月期の GDP（1 次速報）予測

～輸出の持ち直しを受けて、2 四半期連続のプラス成長～

調査部 主任研究員 藤田 隼平

2026 年 5 月 19 日に内閣府が公表する 2026 年 1～3 月期の実質 GDP（1 次速報値）は、前期比＋0.3%（前
期比年率換算＋1.0%）と、2 四半期連続のプラス成長になったと見込まれる。トランプ関税の影響で落ち込んで
いた輸出が、米国向けを中心に持ち直しへ向かったことが押し上げ要因となった。 個人消費を中心に 内需が底
堅く推移したことも下支えとなったとみられる。 
また、物価上昇分も含んだ名目 GDP は、前期比＋1.0%（年率換算＋4.1%）となったと見込まれる。コスト増加
分の価格転嫁が進む中で、GDP デフレーターは前年比＋3.3%（季節調整済前期比では＋0.7%）と高めの伸び
が続いた。 
総じて見れば、2026 年入り後も緩やかな景気回復が続い たことを確認できる結果になるとみられる 。ただし、
先行きについては、 イラン情勢緊迫化 による原油高や供給制約 などの悪影響が表面化することで、景気の下押
し圧力が強まる可能性に警戒が必要となる。

（注）内需寄与度、民間在庫、外需寄与度は実質 GDP に対する寄与度 
（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」により作成

===== Page 101 =====

2 / 2

需要項目別の動向は以下の通りである。

===== Page 102 =====

2026 年 4 月 28 日

MURC Focus

ルーマニアで高まる政権崩壊の可能性

～ボロジャン政権の崩壊で懸念される為替相場の急落～

調査部 主任研究員 土田 陽介

1. 連立政権から議会第一党が離脱 
ルーマニアの政治が混乱している。4 月 23 日、議会第一党の中道左派・社会民主党（PSD）が連立政権から
離脱した。昨年 6 月に発足した中道の連立内閣は、PSD を中心に、中道右派の国民自由党（PNL）とルーマニ
ア救国同盟（USR）、ハンガリー人民主同盟（UDMR）の 4 党で構成された。首相は輪番制となる取り決めで、発
足以来、イリエ＝ガブリル・ボロジャン PNL 党首が首相職を務めている。

2027 年 4 月には PSD から首相が擁立される約束だったが、同党のソリン・グリンデアヌ党首はボロジャン首相
が推し進める緊縮財政政策を批判し、ボロジャン首相に辞任を要求していた。PSD の連立離脱で議会の過半数
を失ったボロジャン首相は少数与党での政権運営を目指すとみられるが、45 日以内に議会の承認を得られない
と解散総選挙に突入することになる（図表 1）。 
〇ルーマニアの政治が混乱している。議会の過半数を失ったボロジャン首相は少数与党での政権運営を目指
すとみられるが、45日以内に議会の承認を得られないと解散総選挙に突入することになる。 
〇ボロジャン政権が崩壊となった場合は、ルーマニアの財政引き締めに対する投資家へのコミットメントが失わ
れるため、現在1ユーロ＝5.1レイ程度で横ばいとなっている為替相場は急落すると懸念される。 
〇ロシアにとっての“トロイの木馬”となりやすい環境にあるルーマニアの不安定化は、EU にとって政治と経済
の両面での懸念材料と言えよう。 
図表1. ルーマニア下院の構成 図表2. レウの対ユーロ相場

（注）定数は331議席。 
（出所）ルーマニア下院

（注）レウの複数形はレイ。 
（出所）ルーマニア国立銀行（BNR）

PNL
USR
UDMR
少数民族政党（閣外）
PSD
AUR
SOS RO
POT
独立系
0
50
100
150
200
250
与党 野党
（議席）
4.85
4.90
4.95
5.00
5.05
5.10
5.15
23 24 25 26
（レイ/ユーロ）
（年、月）

===== Page 103 =====

PSD は内閣不信任案の提出をチラつかせており、提出する場合は反欧で親露の極右政党であるルーマニア
統一同盟（AUR）との共闘をほのめかせてもいる。SOS ルーマニアと青年党（POT―D）といった他の極右政党も
内閣不信任に同調した場合、ボロジャン政権は崩壊する。政権崩壊となった場合は、現在 1 ユーロ＝5.1 レイ程
度で横ばいとなっている為替相場は急落すると懸念される（図表 2）。

2. エネルギーショックでさらに悪化したルーマニアのファンダメンタルズ 
為替相場の急落が意識される最大の理由は、ルーマニアの緊縮財政政策に対する投資家へのコミットメントが
失われることにある。ルーマニアは EU の中でも経済の基礎的条件（ファンダメンタルズ）の悪化が著しく、その是
正を欧州連合（EU）や国際通貨基金（IMF）から強く勧告されていた。そのためボロジャン首相は、歳出と歳入の
両面で引き締めを進め、ファンダメンタルズの改善に努めていたところである。

その矢先にイラン発のエネルギーショックが生じ、ルーマニアの 3 月の消費者物価は前年比 9.0%上昇と、
EU27 カ国（同 2.8%上昇）と比べても上昇が著しい（図表 3）。ファンダメンタルズの悪化に伴い通貨レウ（複数形
はレイ）には下落圧力がかかったと考えられるが、実際はレウの 対ユーロ相場は横ばいを維持している。これは、
ルーマニア国立銀行（BNR）がレウを買い支えているためだと考えられる。

一方、ルーマニアの 3 月の外貨準備は 638 億ユーロと、2 月の 618 億ユーロからむしろ増えている（図表 4）。
これは BNR が欧州中銀（ECB）と 2027 年 1 月まで 45 億ユーロを上限とするレポラインを結んでおり、それを使
って BNR が ECB からユーロ資金を借り入れているためだとみられる。そして ECB は、政府による財政引き締め
を事実上のコンディショナリティ（金融支援を行う際に課す条件）としてレポラインに応じているものと推察される。

図表3. ルーマニアの物価と金利 図表4. ルーマニアの外貨準備

（出所）BNR、ルーマニア国家統計局

（出所）BNR、ルーマニア財務省

-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
21 22 23 24 25 26
（年利又は前年比、%）
（年）
消費者物価
実質金利
政策金利
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
300
350
400
450
500
550
600
650
700
750
800
850
900
21 22 23 24 25 26
（億ユーロ）
（年、月）
（カ月分）
水準（左目盛）
対輸入額（右目盛）

===== Page 104 =====

これまで BNR が、急激な物価上昇の下でも実質マイナス金利政策を採用してきた理由は、政府による緊縮財
政を支援することにあった と考えられる。一方、それでは通貨安が免れないため、レウ を買い支えることで為替レ
ートの下落を防ぎ、輸入インフレの抑制に努めてきた のだとみられる。しかしボロジャン首相が信任されず、解散
総選挙を経て財政ハト派の新政権が成立し、緊縮財政政策が見直されると、BNR の目論見が崩れることになる。

3. カギを握るのは BNR による金融引き締めの強化 
最新の政党支持率調査によると、支持率第一党は極右のAUR である（図表 5）。同党は緊縮財政政策に不満
を持つ国民の受け皿となっており、他の極右政党（SOS ルーマニアと POT―D）との支持率を合わせると 50%弱
の民意が反 EU 政党に吸収されている。PSD の出方次第だが、実際支持率を見ると、財政ハト派の政権が成立
し、財政引き締めが見直される可能性は現実味を帯びている。

仮に解散総選挙となれば、投資家は、財政ハト派の新政権が成立し財政引き締め が撤回される展開を意識し、
ルーマニアから資本を引き揚げることになる。ECB がレポラインの継続ないしは更新を拒絶する可能性が出てく
ることも、投資家による資本の引き揚げを促すだろう。資本流出に伴う通貨安圧力に BNR による買い支えだけで
あらがうことは無理なため、通貨防衛を優先するなら BNR は大幅利上げに踏み込まざるを得なくなる。

ウクライナと国境を接するルーマニアは、ウクライナ復興の拠点の一つとして期待されている。西部のトランシル
バニア地方を中心に、日系企業も多く進出している。 一方、東部では隣国のモルドバを巡る複雑な事情も抱えて
おり、親露の政権が誕生したばかりのブルガリアよりも、ロシアにとっての“トロイの木馬”となりやすい環境にもある。
ルーマニアの不安定化は、EU にとって政治と経済の両面での懸念材料と言えよう。

図表5. 主要政党の支持率（INSCOP4月調査） 図表6. ルーマニアの経常収支

（注）調査期間は4月1～7日。 
（出所）INSCOP

（注1）民間収支＝経常収支－政府収支（財政収支） 
（注2）4四半期後方移動平均 
（出所）BNR 及びルーマニア財務省 
PNL
USR
UDMR
PSD
AUR
POT
SOS
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
中道右派 中道左派 極右
（%）
【親EU】
【反緊縮】
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
21 22 23 24 25 26
政府収支 民間収支 経常収支
（対GDP比、%）
（年、四半期）

===== Page 105 =====

## 033_NLI_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

3.9%
1.4%
▲0.0%
0.5% 0.8% 0.5% 1.1%
▲2%
▲1%
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
民間消費 設備投資 公的需要 外需 その他
実質ＧＤＰ成長率の推移(年度）(前年比）
(資料）内閣府経済社会総合研究所「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」
(年度）
予測

＜実質成長率：2026年度 0.5％、2027年度 1.1％を予想＞

１. 2026 年 1-3 月期の実質 GDPは前期比年率 2.1％と 2 四半期連続のプラス成長となった。
民間消費、設備投資が増加したことに加え、輸出が高い伸びとなり、中東情勢の影響が
本格化する前の日本経済の底堅さが確認された。 
２. 先行きは、中東情勢悪化の影響で経済成長率が押し下げられる。エネルギーの供給制約
や物流の停滞が生産調整を招き、原油価格高騰による交易条件の悪化が企業収益、家計
の実質購買力を下押しする。2026年度前半はほぼゼロ成長にとどまることが見込まれる。 
３. 実質 GDP成長率は 2026年度が 0.5％、2027年度が 1.1％と予想する。今回の見通しでは、
中東情勢を巡る緊張は徐々に和らぎ、原油価格の下落や物流の回復などを受けて、経済
活動が正常化に向かうことを前提としている。中東情勢の混迷が長期化した場合には、
スタグフレーションの様相が一段と強まるだろう。 
４. 消費者物価上昇率（生鮮食品を除く総合）は、エネルギー関連の負担軽減策などから 1％
台後半まで低下しているが、原油価格高騰に伴う輸入物価の上昇が食料品や日用品等の
幅広い品目に波及し、2026年度末には 3％台まで加速するだろう。年度ベースの消費者
物価上昇率（生鮮食品を除く総合）は、2026 年度が 2.5％、2027年度が 2.3％と予想する。 
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-20

2026・2027 年度経済見通し（26 年 5 月）

経済研究部 経済調査部長 斎藤  太郎 
(03)3512-1836  tsaito@nli-research.co.jp

===== Page 2 =====

この結果、2025年度の実質 GDPは前年比 0.8％（2024 年度は 0.5％）と 2 年連続のプラス成長、
名目 GDPは前年比 4.2％（2024 年度は 3.7％）と 5 年連続のプラス成長となった。

（中東情勢悪化の影響） 
2026年 2月末に米国とイスラエルがイランを攻撃して以来、中東情勢の混迷が続いている。中東
情勢の悪化は様々なルートを通じて、日本経済に悪影響を及ぼす。 
日本はエネルギー資源の多くを海外に依存しており、特に原油は輸入量の9 割以上が中東産とな
っている。また、ナフサ、揮発油などその他の鉱物性燃料についても中東依存度は非常に高い。 
ホルムズ海峡が事実上封鎖されたことによって、日本の原油輸入量は大幅な減少が見込まれる。
これまで、日本の原油輸入の約 9割がホルムズ海峡を通過してきたが、IMF Port Watchによれば、
ホルムズ海峡を通過した合計船舶数（タンカー＋貨物船）は 2026年 2月末には 100隻前後だった
が、3 月に入って 10 隻以下まで急減し、2ヵ月以上が経過した 5月中旬時点でもほとんど回復して
いない。

0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
原油 ナフサ 揮発油 液化天然ガス 液化石油ガス
品目別輸入の中東依存度（2025年）
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」

0
20
40
60
80
100
120
7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月 1月 2月 3月 4月 5月
ホルムズ海峡の通航船舶数
タンカー
貨物船
合計船舶数
（注）7日移動平均 （出所）「IMF PortWatch」
2025年 2026年 （日次）

2026年 3月の貿易統計では、原油の輸入量が前年比 2.4％の増加となったが、これは原油をタン
カーで中東から日本に輸送するまでには 3 週間程度かかり、2 月末までに出港した分が計上されて

===== Page 3 =====

原油をはじめとする資源価格の上昇は交易条件の悪化を通じて海外への所得流出をもたらし、企
業収益の悪化、家計の実質購買力の低下につながる。 
日本経済は石油危機当時と比べるとエネルギー効率の改善が大きく進んでいる。経済活動（実質
GDP）を 1 単位生み出すために必要なエネルギー量を示すエネルギー原単位（一次エネルギー国内
供給／実質 GDP）は、産業構造の変化や省エ
ネルギー技術の進展により、1970年代半ば以
降低下傾向を続けており、2024 年度には 1970
年度比で 4 割程度の水準まで改善している。ま
た、1970年代はエネルギー供給の 7 割以上が
石油だったが、エネルギー源が天然ガス・都市
ガス、 再生可能エネルギー等にシフトすること
により、 石油の割合は足もとでは3 割強まで低
下している。このことは、日本経済が石油危機
当時と比べて、原油価格の高騰や供給制約に対
する耐性を強めていることを意味する。 
しかし、原油依存度は低下しているものの、
日本全体の輸入依存度は 1970 年代よりもむし
ろ高くなっている。GDPに占める原油輸入の
割合は 1970年代の 5％近い水準から近年は1％
台まで低下しているが、 原油以外の鉱物性燃料、
食料品、化学製品、 電気機器なども含めた輸入
全体の対 GDP比は 1970年代の 10％前後から
近年は 20％近い水準まで上昇している。原油
以外も含めた輸入物価上昇に伴う経済全体の
所得の流出規模は石油危機時よりもむしろ大
きくなっている。

何らかのショックによって原油価格が高騰したケースとしては、第一次石油危機（1973～1974
年） 、第二次石油危機（1979年～1980年） 、ロシアによるウクライナ侵攻（2022 年）が挙げられる。
過去の 3局面を比較すると、原油価格の上昇率（ドルベース、円ベース） 、輸入物価の上昇率は第
一次石油危機が最も高く、第二次石油危機、ロシアによるウクライナ侵攻がそれに続いている。一
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
輸入（鉱物性燃料、その他）の対ＧＤＰ比
原油 その他鉱物性燃料 その他
（名目ＧＤＰ比）
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」、内閣府「GDP統計」
輸入総額
（年度）
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
7,000
8,000
1960 1965 1970 1975 1980 1985 1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020
エネルギー原単位の推移
石油 石炭 天然ガス・都市ガス 再生可能 原子力 その他
（GJ/億円）
（注）エネルギー原単位＝一次エネルギー国内供給／実質ＧＤＰ
実質ＧＤＰは1994年度以降が2020年基準、1993年度以前は旧基準の計数を2020年基準に換算
（資料）資源エネルギー庁「総合エネルギー統計」
エネルギー原単位
（年度）

===== Page 4 =====

原油価格（ドバイ）は 1バレル 60ドル台の推移が続いていたが、中東情勢の深刻化を受けて、3
月には 130ドル程度（月中平均）まで急上昇した。その後は中東情勢の緊張緩和期待などから低下
しているものの、足もとの原油価格（WTI）は 100ドル台と紛争前と比べると 50％以上高い水準と
なっている。 
今回の見通しでは、中東情勢を巡る緊張が徐々に和らぎ、原油価格が下落に転じることをメイン
シナリオとしている。具体的には、原油価格（WTI）は 2026年 4-6 月期の 1 バレル 100ドル程度か
ら 7-9 月期に 90ドル程度、10-12月期に 80ドル台、2027年入り後に 70ドル台まで低下することを
前提としている（2026年度平均は 1 バレル 87ドル、2027年度平均は 75ドル）。ただし、タンカー
運賃や調整金等が大幅に上昇するため、通関ベースの原油価格は WTIやドバイ原油を大きく上回
ることが見込まれる（通関ベースの原油価格は 2026年度が 113ドル、2027年度が 85ドルと予想） 。 
この結果、2026年度の輸入物価は前年比 30.5％とロシアによるウクライナ侵攻時の 2022年度に
近い高い伸びとなり、GDP交易利得は 2025年度から▲7.3兆円（対 GDP比で▲1.2％）悪化すると
予想する。

（2026 年の春闘賃上げ率は 3 年連続の高水準も前年を下回る見込み） 
連合が 5/12に公表した 「2026春季生活闘争 第
5 回回答集計結果」によれば、2026 年の平均賃
上げ率は 5.05％（前年同時期比▲0.27％） 、ベー
スアップに相当する「賃上げ分」は 3.51％とな
った。 
一部の業種でトランプ関税の影響を受けたこ
ともあり、5 年ぶりに前年の水準を若干下回るこ
とが見込まれるが、ベースアップでみれば 3％台
半ばと日本銀行の物価目標である 2％を大きく
3.58
5.10
5.25
5.05
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
第1回 第2回 第3回 第4回 第5回 第6回 最終
春闘賃上げ率の推移（定期昇給込み）（％）
（資料）日本労働組合総連合会
2024年2026年
2023年
2025年

===== Page 5 =====

名目賃金を消費者物価（持家の帰属家賃を除く総合）で割り引いた実質賃金は、2026年 1月に前
年比 0.7％と 13ヵ月ぶりのプラスとなった後、3ヵ月連続でプラスの伸びを維持している。名目賃
金（現金給与総額）の伸びが 2025年中の 2％台前半から 2026 年入り後の 3％前後へ伸びを高めた
ことに加え、ガソリン暫定税率廃止の影響などから、消費者物価（持家の帰属家賃を除く総合）の
上昇率が大きく縮小したことが実質賃金の押し上げに寄与している。 
実質賃金上昇率は 2026年度入り後もしばらくはプラスが続くが、消費者物価の上昇ペース加速
を受けて伸び率は徐々に鈍化し、2026年度後半にはマイナスに転じることが予想される。実質賃金
上昇率が再びプラスに転じるのは、3％程度の名目賃金の伸びが続くもとで、消費者物価上昇率の
鈍化が見込まれる 2027年半ば以降と予想される。 
中東紛争の長期化によって原油価格の高止まりが継続した場合には、2027年度末まで実質賃金上
昇率のマイナスが続くリスクが高まるだろう。

▲5%
▲4%
▲3%
▲2%
▲1%
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
実質賃金上昇率の推移
現金給与総額
きまって支給される給与
（注）きまって支給される給与＝所定内給与＋所定外給与
（資料）厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」
（前年比）
（年・月）

▲4%
▲3%
▲2%
▲1%
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
1901 1903 2001 2003 2101 2103 2201 2203 2301 2303 2401 2403 2501 2503 2601 2603 2701 2703 2801
名目賃金と実質賃金
名目賃金上昇率（現金給与総額）
実質賃金上昇率（現金給与総額）
（前年比）
（資料）厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」（事業所規模5人以上）
（年・四半期）(注）実質賃金＝名目賃金÷消費者物価（持家の帰属家賃を除く総合）
消費者物価（持家の帰属家賃を除く総合）
予測

2. 実質成長率は 2026 年度 0.5％、2027 年度 1.1％を予想

（2026 年度前半はほぼゼロ成長に） 
2026 年 1-3 月期は内外需が揃って増加し、0％台半ばから後半とされる潜在成長率を上回る成長
になった。しかし、2026年度入り後は中東情勢悪化の影響が顕在化し、経済成長率が大きく下押し
される可能性が高い。具体的には、エネルギーの供給制約や物流の停滞が生産調整を招き、原油価
格高騰による交易条件の悪化が企業収益、家計の実質購買力を下押しする。 
民間消費は物価上昇率の鈍化に伴う実質購買力の改善を背景に持ち直しの動きを続けてきたが、
先行きは物価上昇ペースの再加速や消費者マインドの悪化から停滞色を強めるだろう。また、設備
投資は高水準の企業収益を背景に回復基調を維持しているが、中東情勢の悪化を受けたコストの大
幅上昇や不確実性の高まりから増勢ペースが鈍化する可能性が高い。輸出は中東向けが自動車を中
心に減少することに加え、航空運賃の大幅上昇によるインバウンド需要の低迷が見込まれる。 
実質 GDP成長率は 4-6月期が前期比年率▲0.4％、7-9月期が同 0.3％となり、2026年度前半はほ
ぼゼロ成長にとどまることが予想される。2026 年度後半以降は、中東情勢の影響が和らぐもとで、
内外需ともに持ち直すことから、潜在成長率を上回る前期比年率 1％台の成長が続くだろう。

===== Page 6 =====

0.4%
0.3%
▲0.6%
0.2% 0.5% ▲0.1% 0.1% 0.3% 0.3% 0.3% 0.2% 0.3% 0.3%
(1.8%)
(1.4%)
(▲2.5%)
(0.8%) (2.1%) (▲0.4%) (0.3%) (1.1%) (1.0%) (1.4%) (0.8%) (1.2%) (1.1%)
▲1.5%
▲1.0%
▲0.5%
0.0%
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2501 2502 2503 2504 2601 2602 2603 2604 2701 2702 2703 2704 2801
民間消費 設備投資 公的需要 外需 その他
実質ＧＤＰ成長率の推移(四半期）(前期比）
(資料）内閣府経済社会総合研究所「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」
(年・四半期）
予測 （ ）内は前期比年率

3.9%
1.4%
▲0.0%
0.5% 0.8% 0.5% 1.1%
▲2%
▲1%
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
民間消費 設備投資 公的需要 外需 その他
実質ＧＤＰ成長率の推移(年度）(前年比）
(資料）内閣府経済社会総合研究所「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」
(年度）
予測

（家計貯蓄率はマイナスが続く） 
GDP 統計の家計貯蓄率は 2024 年 10-12 月期から 5 四半期連続でマイナスとなっている。家計貯
蓄率のマイナスは、家計が可処分所得以上に消費をしていることを意味する。家計消費低迷の主因
は可処分所得の伸び悩みにある。 
直近（2025年 10-12月期）の実質可処分所得（季節調整値）はコロナ禍前（2019 年平均）を▲7.0
兆円（2020年基準の実質ベース）下回っている。名目雇用者報酬は順調に伸びているが、物価高や
税負担の増加がそれを打ち消している。明るい材料はこのところ財産所得が大幅に増加しているこ
とである。家計の財産所得は超低金利の長期化に伴い低迷が続いてきたが、好調な企業業績を背景
とした配当の増加を主因として大幅に増加し、可処分所得の押し上げ要因となっている。先行きに
ついては、金利上昇に伴う利子所得の増加も期待できる。また、雇用者報酬は名目の高い伸びを物
価高が打ち消す形で、実質では減少が続いていたが、2024 年 4-6 月期に 10 四半期ぶりに前年比で
増加に転じた後、8 四半期連続で増加している。

-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
▲20
0
20
40
60
80
100
1601 1701 1801 1901 2001 2101 2201 2301 2401 2501
家計貯蓄額、貯蓄率の推移
家計・貯蓄
家計・貯蓄率（右目盛）
（注）家計・貯蓄額は季節調整済・年率換算値
（資料）「家計可処分所得・家計貯蓄率四半期別速報（参考系列）」
（年・四半期）
（兆円） （％）

▲60
▲40
▲20
0
20
40
60
2001 2003 2101 2103 2201 2203 2301 2303 2401 2403 2501 2503
実質可処分所得の増減要因
名目雇用者報酬
その他所得
物価要因
財産所得（純）
所得・富等に課される税
（兆円）
（注）2019年平均からの増減幅
内閣府「国民経済計算年次推計」、「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」、
「家計可処分所得・家計貯蓄率四半期別速報（参考系列）」から試算
（年・四半期）
実質可処分所得（季節調整値）

===== Page 7 =====

（設備投資はいったん減速へ） 
2026年 1-3 月期の設備投資は前期比 0.3％と 2 四半期連続の増加となった。 
日銀短観 2026年 3 月調査では、2025年度の
設備投資計画（含むソフトウェア・研究開発投
資額、除く土地投資額）が2025年 12月調査か
ら▲1.3％下方修正され、前年度比 7.8％（全規
模・全産業）となったが、2026年度の当初計画
は前年度比 2.7％となり、2025 年度当初計画の
前年度比 2.2％（2025年 3 月調査） を上回った。 
設備投資は、高水準の企業収益を背景に、人
手不足対応の省力化投資、 デジタル化に向けた
情報関連投資、Eコマース拡大に伴う建設投資
などの案件を軸に 回復の動きが続くことが見
込まれる。ただし、中東情勢悪化に伴う企業収
益の下押し、 供給制約や不確実性の高まりを受
けて、2026年度にはいったん減速する公算が大
きい。 
一方、短期的な収益環境の影響を受けにくい
ソフトウェア投資や研究開発投資の増加 は設
備投資を下支えすることが期待される。 
設備投資は 2025年度の前年比2.4％から 2026
年度が同 1.6％と減速した後、原油価格下落に
260
270
280
290
300
310
320
330
340
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
実質家計消費と実質可処分所得の推移
実質家計消費
実質可処分所得
予測
特別定額給付金
所得税・住民税減税
（資料）内閣府「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」、「家計可処分所得・家計貯蓄率四半期別速報（参考系列）」
（年・四半期）
（兆円）
0
5
10
15
3月調査 6月調査 9月調査 12月調査 実績見込み 実績
設備投資計画（全規模・全産業）
2021年度 2022年度 2023年度 2024年度
（資料）日本銀行「企業短期経済観測調査」
（注）ソフトウェア・研究開発を含む設備投資額（除く土地投資額）
（前年度比、％）
2025年度
2026年度
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
形態別設備投資の推移
ソフトウェア投資 研究開発投資
建設投資 機械投資
無形固定資産投資
（注）2024年までは年次推計値、2025年は速報値を用いた試算値
（資料）内閣府「国民経済計算（ＧＤＰ統計）」
（年）
（兆円）

===== Page 8 =====

（物価の見通し） 
消費者物価（生鮮食品を除く総合、以下コアCPI）は2026年 2 月に前年比 1.6％と 2022年 3 月以
来、3 年 11ヵ月ぶりの 2％割れとなった後、3 月も同 1.8％と 1％台の伸びとなった。消費者物価上
昇率鈍化の主因は、既往の原油価格下落に加え、
ガソリンの暫定税率廃止、電気・ガス代の支援
策などからエネルギー価格が下落に転じ たこと、
2025 年夏場以降、食料の上昇率鈍化が続いてい
ることである。食料（生鮮食品を除く）は 2025
年 7月の前年比 8.3％をピークに 8ヵ月連続で鈍
化し、2026年 3月には同 5.2％となり、この間の
コア CPI上昇率を▲1％ポイント程度押し下げた。 
先行きについては、物価の押し下げ要因と押
し上げ要因が混在する。 
押し下げ要因としては、私立高校の授業料無償化、公立小学校の給食費無償化が挙げられる。両
者を合わせた 4月のコア CPI上昇率の押し下げ幅は▲0.4％ポイント程度と見込まれる。 ただし、25
年度の公立高校の授業料無償化の影響が一巡することで CPI上昇率は 0.2％ポイント弱押し上げら
れる。また、ガソリン、灯油価格は 3 月に大幅に上昇したが、4月以降は「中東情勢を踏まえた緊
急的激変緩和措置」によって押し下げられている。 
一方、押し上げ要因としては、電気・都市ガス代の補助金が 4 月に縮小し、5 月以降なくなるこ
とが挙げられる。4、5月の 2 ヵ月で電気代は 15％程度、都市ガス代は 10％程度上昇するだろう。
電気、都市ガスは直近 3ヵ月分の輸入燃料価格が 2 ヵ月先の料金に反映される。たとえば、2026
年 5 月使用分（消費者物価への反映は 2026年 6月）の電気・都市ガス料金（うち燃料費調整部分）
は 2026年 1～3月の輸入燃料価格の平均値で計算される。通関ベースの原油価格が大幅に上昇する
のは 4 月以降となるため、3 月以降の原油価格高騰に伴う燃料費上昇を受けた電気・都市ガス料金
の上昇が本格化するのは秋以降となる。こうした状況を受けて、電気・ガスの支援策は夏以降に再
開される公算が大きい。また、夏場以降は原油価格上昇の影響が石油製品だけでなく、食料品、日
用品など幅広い品目に波及することが見込まれる。 
日本銀行の「企業物価指数」によれば、中東情勢の影響を受けた原油価格の上昇や円安の進展を
反映し、輸入物価指数が 2026年 2 月の前年比 2.7％から、3月が同 8.0％、4 月が同 17.5％と上昇率
が急加速した。また、国内の企業間で取引される財の価格を表す国内企業物価指数も2月の前年比
2.1％から 3 月が同 2.9％、4 月が同 4.9％と伸びを大きく高めた。川上段階では中東情勢の影響を受
けた物価の急上昇がすでに顕在化している。 
2022 年以降、企業や家計が持続的な物価上昇を経験したことで、企業の価格設定行動は積極化し
ている。原油価格高騰を起点とした物価上昇の川上から川下への波及はその大きさ、スピードとも
に従来を上回るものとなる公算が大きい。 
▲2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
16%
▲5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
食料品の輸入物価、国内企業物価、消費者物価
（年・月）（注）消費税の影響を除く
（資料）日本銀行「企業物価指数」、総務省統計局「消費者物価指数」
飲食料品・輸入物価(左目盛）
飲食料品・国内企業物価（右目盛）
生鮮食品を除く食料・消費者物価（右目盛）
（前年比） （前年比）

===== Page 9 =====

▲1%
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
2204 2207 2210 2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601
サービス価格の推移（前年比）
（年・月）（資料）総務省統計局「消費者物価指数」
サービス
家賃
家賃を除くサービス
▲2.0%
▲1.0%
0.0%
1.0%
2.0%
3.0%
4.0%
5.0%
2001 2003 2101 2103 2201 2203 2301 2303 2401 2403 2501 2503 2601 2603 2701 2703 2801
エネルギー 食料（除く生鮮、外食） その他財 サービス
消費者物価（生鮮食品を除く総合）の予測（前年比）
消費者物価（生鮮食品を除く総合）
（資料）総務省統計局「消費者物価指数」
（年・四半期）
予測

===== Page 10 =====

日 本 経 済 の 見 通 し （2026 年 1-3 月期 1 次 QE（5/19 発表）反映後） 
      （単位,％） 前回予測 (2026.3)
2024年度 2025年度 2026年度 2027年度 25/4-6 25/7-9 25/10-12 26/1-3 26/4-6 26/7-9 26/10-12 27/1-3 27/4-6 27/7-9 27/10-12 28/1-3 2025年度 2026年度 2027年度
実績 実績 予測 予測 実績 実績 実績 実績 予測 予測 予測 予測 予測 予測 予測 予測 予測 予測 予測
実質ＧＤＰ 0.5 0.8 0.5 1.1 0.3 ▲0.6 0.2 0.5 ▲0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.3 0.3 1.0 0.9 1.3
1.4 ▲2.5 0.8 2.1 ▲0.4 0.3 1.1 1.0 1.4 0.8 1.2 1.1
2.0 0.5 0.2 0.6 0.1 0.7 0.7 0.6 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.2
内需寄与度 (0.8) (1.0) (0.5) (1.1) (0.2) (▲0.3) (0.2) (0.2) (▲0.0) (0.1) (0.3) (0.2) (0.4) (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (1.2) (0.9) (1.3)
内、民需 (0.4) (0.8) (0.4) (0.9) (0.1) (▲0.3) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) (0.0) (0.2) (0.2) (0.3) (0.2) (0.2) (0.2) (1.1) (0.8) (1.1)
内、公需 (0.5) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2) (0.1) (▲0.0) (0.1) (0.1) (▲0.1) (0.1) (0.1) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.0) (0.1) (0.1) (0.2)
外需寄与度 (▲0.3) (▲0.2) (0.0) (0.0) (0.1) (▲0.3) (0.0) (0.3) (▲0.1) (▲0.0) (▲0.0) (0.1) (▲0.0) (▲0.0) (0.1) (▲0.0) (▲0.2) (▲0.0) (▲0.0)
民間最終消費支出 0.1 1.2 0.4 0.5 0.2 0.5 0.0 0.3 0.1 ▲0.1 0.1 ▲0.0 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 1.5 0.8 1.1
民間住宅 ▲0.7 ▲3.5 ▲0.0 ▲0.7 ▲0.0 ▲8.1 5.0 0.5 ▲0.6 ▲0.3 0.4 ▲0.6 0.4 ▲0.6 ▲0.6 ▲0.1 ▲3.5 ▲0.5 ▲0.5
民間企業設備 0.8 2.4 1.6 2.7 1.2 ▲0.1 1.4 0.3 0.1 0.2 0.5 0.9 0.8 0.5 0.6 0.8 2.3 2.2 2.7
政府最終消費支出 2.3 0.8 0.5 0.5 0.7 0.1 0.4 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.1 0.8 0.6 0.7
公的固定資本形成 0.1 ▲0.6 ▲0.3 0.3 0.4 ▲1.1 ▲0.2 1.4 ▲0.8 ▲0.5 0.2 0.2 0.0 ▲0.0 0.1 0.3 ▲1.1 ▲0.2 0.9
輸出 2.7 1.9 ▲0.3 2.4 1.6 ▲1.6 0.2 1.7 ▲1.9 0.3 0.6 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.8 0.5 2.0 1.7 2.0
輸入 4.0 2.6 ▲0.5 2.4 1.1 ▲0.2 ▲0.0 0.5 ▲1.6 0.4 0.7 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.4 0.5 2.9 1.9 2.2
名目ＧＤＰ 3.7 4.2 1.3 4.2 2.0 0.1 0.9 0.8 ▲0.3 ▲0.4 0.9 1.2 1.6 1.0 0.8 0.5 4.3 2.5 3.4
（注）実質ＧＤＰの上段は前期比、中段は前期比年率、下段は前年比。その他の需要項目はすべて前期比。
＜主 要 経 済 指 標＞
　　　 （単位,％）
2024年度 2025年度 2026年度 2027年度 25/4-6 25/7-9 25/10-12 26/1-3 26/4-6 26/7-9 26/10-12 27/1-3 27/4-6 27/7-9 27/10-12 28/1-3 2025年度 2026年度 2027年度
鉱工業生産（前期比） ▲1.5 ▲0.2 0.4 1.0 ▲0.5 ▲1.1 0.3 2.5 ▲1.6 0.1 0.4 0.2 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.4 1.0 1.0 1.0
国内企業物価（前年比） 3.3 2.7 8.3 1.6 3.3 2.6 2.6 2.5 7.3 9.8 8.7 7.6 2.4 0.8 1.5 1.8 2.6 2.7 0.7
消費者物価（前年比） 3.0 2.6 2.5 2.3 3.4 2.9 2.7 1.4 1.8 2.2 2.6 3.3 2.9 2.6 2.1 1.7 2.6 2.1 2.1
消費者物価（生鮮食品除き） 2.7 2.7 2.5 2.3 3.5 2.9 2.8 1.8 1.8 2.2 2.6 3.3 2.9 2.7 2.1 1.7 2.8 2.1 2.1
経常収支（兆円） 30.0 34.5 23.6 25.8 29.4 35.6 33.1 39.1 31.1 20.9 21.1 21.4 26.9 26.3 27.0 23.0 31.5 28.3 28.6
(名目ＧＤＰ比) (4.7) (5.0) (3.5) (3.6) (4.4) (5.4) (4.9) (5.8) (4.6) (3.1) (3.1) (3.1) (3.9) (3.7) (3.8) (3.2) (4.7) (4.1) (4.0)
失業率（％） 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.6 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.7 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.5
住宅着工戸数(万戸） 81.6 71.1 74.6 74.5 62.0 71.9 75.6 74.7 74.5 74.4 74.9 74.6 75.1 74.8 74.1 73.8 71.6 76.1 76.0
コールレート（誘導目標） 0.50 0.75 1.25 1.50 0.50 0.50 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.25 1.25 1.25 1.25 1.50 0.75 1.00 1.25
10年国債利回り(店頭基準気配) 1.0 1.8 2.6 2.7 1.4 1.6 1.8 2.2 2.6 2.7 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.7 2.7 1.8 2.3 2.5
為替（円/ﾄﾞﾙ） 152 151 157 152 145 147 154 157 158 158 157 155 154 153 152 150 151 153 146
原油価格（CIF,ﾄﾞﾙ/ﾊﾞﾚﾙ） 83 71 113 85 76 72 71 67 129 123 106 93 85 85 85 85 72 83 74
経常利益（前年比） 7.2 6.3 2.5 7.8 0.2 19.7 4.7 4.7 0.5 0.7 3.2 5.8 8.1 8.5 6.9 7.8 6.1 4.1 5.9
(注）10年国債利回り、為替、原油価格は期中平均値。コールレートは無担保・翌日物の期末値（レンジの場合は上限値）。26/1-3の経常利益は予測値
(資料）内閣府経済社会総合研究所「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」、経済産業省「鉱工業指数」、総務省「消費者物価指数」、財務省「法人企業統計季報」他

米国経済の見通し 
2024年 2025年 2026年 2027年 2025年 2026年 2027年
1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12
（実） （実） （予） （予） (実） （実） （実） （実） (実） （予） （予） （予） (予） （予） （予） （予）
実質ＧＤＰ 前期比年率、％ 2.8 2.1 2.0 1.9 ▲ 0.6 3.8 4.4 0.5 2.0 1.8 1.5 1.7 2.1 1.9 1.9 1.9
ＦＦレート誘導目標 期末、上限、％ 4.50 3.75 3.75 3.50 4.50 4.50 4.25 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.50 3.50 3.50 3.50
10年国債金利 平均、％ 4.3 4.3 4.4 4.1 4.4 4.4 4.2 4.1 4.2 4.6 4.5 4.4 4.2 4.1 4.1 4.1

欧州（ユーロ圏）経済の見通し 
2024年 2025年 2026年 2027年 2025年 2026年 2027年
1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12
（実） （実） （予） （予） （実） （実） （実） （実） （改） （予） （予） （予） （予） （予） （予） （予）
実質ＧＤＰ 前期比年率、％ 0.9 1.4 0.8 1.1 2.4 0.6 1.2 0.8 0.6 0.1 1.0 1.1 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.2
預金ファシリティ金利 期末、％ 3.00 2.00 2.50 2.00 2.50 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.25 2.50 2.50 2.25 2.00 2.00 2.00
ドイツ10年国債金利 平均、％ 2.3 2.6 2.9 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.7 2.7 2.8 3.0 3.0 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.4 2.4
対ドル為替相場 平均、ドル 1.09 1.13 1.18 1.20 1.05 1.13 1.17 1.16 1.17 1.18 1.19 1.19 1.19 1.19 1.20 1.20

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 11 =====

1． 結果の概要：週平均賃金は前年比 4.1％ 
5 月 19 日、英国国家統計局（ＯＮＳ）は雇用関連統計を公表し、結果は以下の通りとなった1。 
【4 月】 
・失業保険申請件数2は前月（167.24 万件）から2.65 万件増の 169.89 万件となった（図表1）。 
・申請件数の雇用者数に対する割合は4.4％となり、前月（同4.4％）から横ばいだった。 
・給与所得者数3は前月（3028.2 万人）から 10.0 万人減の 3018.2 万人となった。増減数は前月
（▲2.8 万人）からマイナス幅が拡大し、市場予想4（▲1.0 万人）を下回った。 
【3 月（26 年 1-3 月）の 3 か月平均）】 
・失業率は5.0％で前月（4.9％）から上昇、市場予想（4.9％）を上回った（図表1）。 
・就業者は 3439.2 万人で 3 か月前の 3424.4 万人から 14.8 万人増加した。増減数は市場予想
（10.1 万人）を上回り、前月（2.5 万人）から増加した。 
・週平均賃金は前年比4.1％で前月 （3.9％）から上昇、市場予想 （3.8％）を上回った（図表2）。 
（図表 1）

（図表 2）

2． 結果の詳細：給与所得者の給与額（中央値）伸び率は 4.9％と高めの水準を維持 
まず 4 月のデータの求人数を確認すると、求人数が26 年 2-4 月の平均で70.5 万件となった（図
表3）。25 年央からしばらく横ばい推移が続いていたが、 足もと再び低下傾向にある。なお、4 月単

1 労働力調査ベースの統計については、回答率の低下を受け、ＯＮＳでは開発中の公式統計という位置付けで公表されている。 
2 求職者手当（ＪＳＡ：Jobseekerʼs Allowance） 、国民保険給付（National Insurance credits）を受けている者に加えて、主に失業
理由でユニバーサルクレジット（ＵＣ）を受給している者の推計数の合算。なお、ＵＣはＪＳＡより幅広い求職手当てであり、失業者
数を示す統計としては過大評価している可能性がある。このため、ＯＮＳは開発中の公式統計という位置付けで公表している。 
3 歳入関税庁（ＨＲＭＣ）の源泉徴収情報を利用した統計。直近データは約 85％のデータから推計。 
4 bloomberg 集計の中央値。以下の予想値も同様。 
2.65
4.4
3.7
5.3
3.6
3.9 4.4
5.0
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
18/1
19/1
20/1
21/1
22/1
23/1
24/1
25/1
26/1
（月次）
（注）季節調整値、割合＝申請者／（雇用者＋申請者）。ＩＬＯ基準失業率は後方3か月移動平均。
（資料）ONSのデータをＤａｔａｓｔｒｅａｍより取得
英国の失業保険申請件数、失業率（件数、万件） （％）
申請件数の割合（右軸）
失業保険申請件数（前月差）
失業率（右軸）
4.1
0.8
37.6
36.4
31.7
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
▲ 4
▲ 3
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
18/1 19/1 20/1 21/1 22/1 23/1 24/1 25/1 26/1
（月次）
（注）季節調整値、後方3か月移動平均
（資料）Ｄａｔａｓｔｒｅａｍ、ＯＮＳ
賃金・労働時間の推移
週当たり賃金（実質）伸び率
（前年同期比、％）
フルタイム労働者の週当たり労働時間（右軸）
（時間）
週当たり賃金（名目）伸び率
パートタイムなど含む労働者の週当たり労働時間（右軸）
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-20 
英国雇用関連統計（26 年 4 月） 
－週平均賃金が再び 4％台まで上昇

===== Page 12 =====

（図表 4）

労働力調査ベースの数値は、26 年 1-3 月期の失業率で 5.0％となり、前期の 4.9％からやや低下
した（前掲図表1）。失業者と就業者がともに増加し非労働力人口が減少したため、労働参加率は上
昇した（労働参加率は63.8％から63.9％に上昇）。 
（図表 5）

（図表 6）

労働時間は 31.7 時間（前年差▲0.1 時間） 、フルタイム労働者で36.4 時間（▲0.1 時間）となっ
た（前掲図表 2）。名目賃金は前年比で 4.1％と、前月（3.9％）から上昇し、再び 4％台となった。
一方、ボーナスを除く定期賃金伸び率は前年比3.4％と前月 （3.6％） から低下し、市場予想 （3.4％）
と一致した。同数値を 3 か月前比年率で見た賃金上昇の勢いは 1.9％（前月 2.5％）に低下した。
なお、民間部門の賃金上昇率は前年比 3.9％（前月 3.6％、ボーナス除きは3.0％） 、公的部門は同
4.9％（前月 5.2％、ボーナス除きは4.8％）となった。民間部門は定期賃金上昇率で3％前後まで
伸び率が減速しているが、公的部門の伸び率は定期賃金上昇率でも 5％近い状況にある（図表 5）。
実質ベースの伸び率は、ボーナス含みで前年比0.8％（前月 0.6％）、 ボーナスを除きで同0.1％（前
月0.2％）となった。 
処遇改善を求めたストライキは、3 月は件数ベースで43 件（2 月44 件）、労働損失日数で2.3 万
日（2 月4.1 万日）となっており、低水準で推移している（図表6）。 
84.5 80.8 
129.3 
70.5 
30
50
70
90
110
130
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
サービス業以外
居住・飲食・芸術・娯楽業
その他サービス業
3か月前との差
求人数（右軸）
求人数の変化（要因分解）（3か月前との差、万人）
（月次）
（注）季節調整値、後方3か月移動平均
（資料）ONSのデータをＤａｔａｓｔｒｅａｍより取得
（万件）
9.3
5.9
4.0
7.5
6.5
2.9
4.9
3.7
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
給与所得者の前月差（その他産業）
給与所得者の前月差（居住・飲食・芸術・娯楽業）
（月次）（資料）ONS
給与取得者データの推移（件数、万件） （前年同期比、％）
月あたり給与（中央値）の伸び率（右軸）
月あたり給与（平均値）の伸び率（右軸）
4.1
3.9
12.5
0.1
7.7
4.9
▲ 3
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
15/1
16/1
17/1
18/1
19/1
20/1
21/1
22/1
23/1
24/1
25/1
26/1
（月次）
（注）季節調整値、後方3か月移動平均
（資料）ＯＮＳ
賃金上昇率（ボーナス含む）の推移（前年同期比、％）
うち民間部門
週当たり名目賃金伸び率
うち公的部門
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
（月次）
（注）未季節調整値、20年2月から21年12月まではコロナ禍のためデータなし
（資料）ＯＮＳ
英国の労働争議件数と労働損失日数（万日）
労働争議件数（公的部門、右軸）
（件）
労働損失日数
労働争議件数（民間部門、右軸）
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 13 =====

1――はじめに～個人消費は足踏み状態だが、実質賃金は３か月連続プラス

個人消費は足踏みが続いている。世帯全体の消費支出総額の動向を示す「総消費動向指数（CTI マ
クロ）」をみると、2024 年から緩やかな改善傾向をたどり、コロナ禍前と同程度の水準にはあるもの
の、足元では足踏み状態が続いている（図表１）。 
一方、長らくマイナス圏が続いてきた実質賃金は、政府の物価高対策の効果等により消費者物価指数
の上昇率が低下したことを受け、2025 年12 月に総合指数ではわずかにプラスへ転じた （図表２） 。2026
年３月 （速報値） は、 総合指数で前年同月比＋1.3％、 持家の帰属家賃を除く総合指数では同＋1.0％、
となり、消費者の実感に近い後者でも３か月連続でプラス圏を維持している。 
もっとも、今後の動向には注意が必要だ。中東情勢を背景としたエネルギー価格上昇の物価への波
及リスクに加えて、４月には鉄道運賃 ・ 授業料 ・ 家賃など、年度替わりに伴う値上げの影響も重なる。 
本稿では、 総務省 「家計調査」 を基に、統計の最新値である2026 年３月までの二人以上世帯の消費
動向について分析する。 
図表１ 総消費動向指数（ＣＴＩマクロ）（2020 年＝100）

（資料）総務省「消費動向指数」より作成 
図表２ 消費者物価指数と実質賃金指数（前年同月比）

（資料）総務省「消費者物価指数」および厚生労働省「毎 
月勤労統計」より作成 
85
90
95
100
105
110
1 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
-5
0
5
10
1 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
消費者物価指数（持家の帰属家賃を除く総合）
消費者物価指数（総合）
実質賃金（持家の帰属家賃を除く総合）
実質賃金（総合）
名目賃金
%
2026-05-19 
基礎研 
レ ポ ー ト 
家計消費 の動向 （二人以上世帯 ：
～2026 年３月） 
実質賃金３か月連続プラスも、選択的消費行動は続く

生活研究部 上席研究員 久我 尚子 
(03)3512-1878  kuga@nli-research.co.jp

ニッセイ基礎研究所

===== Page 14 =====

2――二人以上世帯の消費支出の概観～メリハリ消費が継続、実質賃金改善で消費底上げの鍵に

まず、二人以上世帯の消費支出の内訳として、 「世帯消費動向指数1（2020 年の二人以上世帯の消費
支出＝100 とした指数） 」の大分類費目の状況をみると、ここ数年続いてきた傾向2と同様に、「食料」
や「家具・家事用品」の減少傾向が続いている（図表３） 。一方、 「教養娯楽」や「交通・通信」 、 「教
育」 、 「保健医療」は増加、あるいはおおむね横ばいで推移している。 
2023 年以降、コロナ禍の収束に伴って消費行動が平常化する一方、 物価高による実質的な可処分所
得の目減りを受けて、消費者が支出先を選別する動きが続いている。食料や日用品といった日常的な
支出を抑える一方で、旅行やレジャーなどの娯楽的な支出は維持しようとする「メリハリ消費」の傾
向が、引き続き見てとれる。 
ただし、前述の通り、中東情勢の動向には注視が必要だ。現段階でのニッセイ基礎研究所の見通し

1 「家計調査」 「家計消費状況調査」 「家計消費単身モニター調査」を合成して得られた消費支出を元に、基準年（2020 年）  
を 100 とする指数。2020 年１月以降の値が公表されている。 
2 久我尚子「家計消費の動向（二人以上世帯：～2026 年 1 月）－実質賃金はプラス圏へ、選択的消費行動は続く」、ニッセ
イ基礎研究所、基礎研レポート（2025/11/14） 
図表３ 二人以上世帯の世帯消費動向指数（2020 年の二人以上世帯の消費支出＝100、実質値、季節調整値） 
（a）食料、住居

（ｂ）光熱・水道、家具・家事用品 
被服及び履物、保険医療

（ｃ）交通・通信、教育、教養娯楽

（注）各グラフの縦軸の範囲が異なる点に留意 
（資料）総務省「消費動向指数」より作成 
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
食料 住居（右軸）
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
1 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3 5 7 9111 3
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
光熱・水道 家具・家事用品
被服及び履物 保健医療
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
1357911135791113579111357911135791113579111
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20252026
教養娯楽 教育 交通・通信（右軸）

===== Page 15 =====

では、2026 年の実質賃金はプラス圏での推移が見込まれているものの3、その伸びは低水準にとどま
る。中東情勢の長期化などによって物価がさらに上振れした場合には、実質賃金が再びマイナスに転
じる可能性もあり、消費回復の勢いが弱まるリスクには引き続き注意が必要である。もっとも、そう
したリスクを念頭に置きつつも、実質賃金のプラスが続く限りは、これまでのメリハリ消費の基調が
大きく崩れずに続いていくと考えられる。 
次節では、大まかな分類では見えにくい変化を捉えるため、景気や消費動向の影響を比較的受けや
すい主な個別費目に注目する。

3――主な個別費目の状況～分野ごとに異なる動き、回復と抑制が並行

総務省「消費動向指数」では個別費目の指数は存在しないため、ここからは「家計調査」における
二人以上世帯の各費目の支出額の対前年同月実質増減率をみる。

1｜旅行・レジャー～円安への慣れと旅行需要の回復、燃油サーチャージ上昇が今後の焦点に 
二人以上世帯の「宿泊料」は、2025 年半ばにいったん足踏みが見られたものの、後半以降は持ち直
しの動きが見られ、2026 年に入ってからは前年比２～４割の高い伸びとなっている（図表４（ａ））。
「パック旅行費」も 2025 年以降、改善傾向が続いている。伸びが大きい月では海外旅行の比率が高
く、特に2026 年２月は海外パック旅行が「パック旅行費」全体の約６割を占めた。 
海外旅行は、2024 年頃には円安による割高感から敬遠される傾向が続いていたが、2025 年に入り円
安が一旦落ち着いたことに加え、 「円安は当面続く」 との見方が消費者の間で広がったことで、 為替へ
の懸念よりも旅行機会を優先する行動へと変化してきたとみられる。 
内訳をみると、特に2025 年夏にかけては国内・海外ともに伸びているが、なかでも海外パック旅
行の伸びが顕著であった（名目で前年比200％程度） 。背景には、円安への心理的順応に加え、旅行
価格の上昇が落ち着きつつあることや、燃油サーチャージ込みの定額プランなど費用感を把握しやす
い商品が増えたことが挙げられる。また、インバウンド需要との競合を踏まえた「早めの予約」や
「パックによる確実な確保」といった行動が広がったことも、支出増を後押しした可能性がある。 
もっとも、2026 年４月以降はイラン情勢の悪化に伴う原油価格の上昇を背景に、国際線の燃油サ
ーチャージが大幅に引き上げられる見通しだ。ANA・JAL ともに、2026 年５～６月発券分から欧州・
北米路線では片道あたり56,000 円のサーチャージが設定されており4、旅行コストへの影響は小さく
ない。旅行需要の回復傾向が続く中で、費用負担の増加が消費行動にどのような影響を与えるのか、
今後の動向が注目される。 
レジャー関連支出は、2024 年以降、 前年を上回る月が多い （図表４（ｂ））。2025 年１月以降の増減
率の平均値を見ると１～３割の伸びとなっており、「宿泊料」 や 「パック旅行費」 と並んで好調を維持

3 斎藤太郎「2025～2027 年度経済見通し－25 年 10-12 月期ＧＤＰ2 次速報後改定」 、ニッセイ基礎研究所、Weekly エコノ
ミスト・レター（2026/03/10） 
4 日本航空株式会社プレスリリース「JAL/JTA国際線「燃油特別付加運賃」の適用額を改定 （2026 年 5 月～6 月発券
分）」（2026/4/20）、日本経済新聞「ANA・JAL、国際線燃油サーチャージ上限引き上げ 5 月から適用」（2026/4/20）
等。

===== Page 16 =====

図表４ 二人以上世帯の主な個別費目（対前同月実質増減率） 
（ａ）旅行

（ｂ）レジャー

（ｃ）交通１

（ｄ）交通２

（ｅ）アパレル

（ｆ）メイクアップ用品

＜次頁へ続く＞ 
-100
0
100
200
300
400
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
宿泊料 パック旅行費
≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈
%
-100
0
100
200
300
400
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
映画・演劇等入場料
遊園地入場・乗物代
文化施設入場料
≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈≈
%
-100
0
100
200
300
400
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
鉄道運賃 鉄道通勤定期代
%
-100
0
100
200
300
400
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
バス代
タクシー代
レンタカー・カーシェアリング料金
%
-100
0
100
200
300
400
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
男性用スーツ 女性用洋服%
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
ファンデーション 口紅%

===== Page 17 =====

している。なかでも「パック旅行費」は２割を超える伸びとなっているほか、 「映画・演劇等入場料」
や「遊園地入場・乗物代」も１割前後のプラスとなっており、エンターテインメント消費の底堅さが
続いている。 
物価高で可処分所得に制約がある中でも、二人以上世帯では生活必需品の支出を抑える一方、娯楽
関連の消費は維持する傾向が見られる。旅行やレジャー関連支出はその中でも堅調に推移しており、
特に足元ではパック旅行需要の高まりが目立つ。日々の生活にかかる支出を工夫しながら、楽しみに
対しては前向きに選択するという「メリハリ消費」の姿勢が、ここにも鮮明に表れている。 
ただし、前述の通り、燃油サーチャージの大幅な引き上げは、旅行コストの上昇を通じてパック旅
行需要に下押し圧力をかける可能性がある。エンターテインメント消費全体の底堅さは続くとみられ
るものの、旅行関連支出については今後の動向を注視する必要がある。

図表４（続き） 二人以上世帯の主な個別費目（対前同月実質増減率） 
（ｇ）外食

（ｈ）内食（穀類）

（ｉ）内食・中食（出前は名目値）

（ｊ）デジタル娯楽（名目値）

（注１） 各グラフの縦軸の範囲が異なる点に留意 
（注２） 実質増減率の算出に用いる消費者物価指数は各支出額の値が存在しない場合は近しい品目の値を用いている。 
（資料）総務省「家計調査」「家計消費状況調査」より作成 
-100
0
100
200
300
400
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
食事代 飲酒代
%
-50
0
50
100
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
米 パン パスタ 即席麺%
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
-50
0
50
100
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20252026
生鮮肉（右軸）
冷凍調理食品（右軸）
出前
% %
-50
0
50
100
150
1 35791113579111357 9111357911135791113 5791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
電子書籍
DL版の音楽・映像、アプリなど
音楽・映像・PC・ゲームソフト
%

===== Page 18 =====

2｜交通費～移動需要が定着、広がる「使う時だけ」の移動スタイル 
「鉄道運賃」「鉄道通勤定期代」は、2024 年後半にかけて前年をやや下回る局面が続いたが、2025
年以降はプラス圏での推移に転じている（図表４（ｃ）） 。これは、2023 年５月の５類移行後に行動が
一気に活発化した反動で、2024 年の比較基準が高くなったためと考えられる。2025 年以降は比較対象
が平準化したことで、底堅い移動需要が素直に数字に表れるようになった。バスも同様の動きがみら
れる（図表４（ｄ） ）。 
交通費の中では「レンタカー・カーシェアリング料金」の伸びが比較的大きい。2024 年以降の増減
率の平均は６％程度であり、2025 年以降に限ると約１割と、 バスやタクシーを上回る伸びとなってい
る。 
「レンタカー・カーシェアリング料金」の伸びが比較的高い背景には、いくつかの要因が考えられ
る。一つは、旅行・レジャー需要の回復との連動である。パック旅行費の増加と時期が重なることか
ら、旅行先での移動手段としての利用が増えた可能性がある。 
もう一つは、 「所有から利用へ」という移動スタイルの構造的な変化である。自家用車を持たない、
あるいは持たない選択をする世帯が、必要な時だけ柔軟に使えるカーシェアやレンタカーを活用する
傾向が強まっていると考えられる。特に都市部の共働き世帯では、駐車場代や維持費を抑えながら、
週末の行楽や郊外への外出にはカーシェアを使うという行動が定着しつつあるのかもしれない。 
いずれにせよ、 レンタカー・カーシェアの堅調な伸びは、 単なる移動量の回復にとどまらず、 「必要
な時に、必要なだけ」というパーソナライズされた移動ニーズの高まりを示唆している。自由度と効
率を重視する消費行動は、 旅行やレジャーにとどまらず、 日常の移動という場面にも広がりつつある。

3｜アパレル・メイクアップ用品～スーツ需要の縮小続く、メイクアップ用品は底堅く推移 
「男性用スーツ」 は、５類移行後に初めて迎えた新年度である2024 年春に一時的な伸びがみられた
ものの、年後半以降は前年を大きく下回る月が目立っている（図表４（ｅ））。2025 年 10 月の大幅増
は前年の大幅減の反動であり、 たとえば2022 年と比べると３割ほど下回る水準にある。近年のオフィ
スウェアのカジュアル化やテレワークの定着を背景に、スーツ需要は総じて縮小傾向にある。なお、
2025 年以降の増減率の平均はマイナス１割強となっている。 
一方、 「女性用洋服」は、「男性用スーツ」と比べれば大きな変動はないが、この２年ほどの増減率
の平均値は▲５％程度であり、緩やかな減少傾向が続いている。 
「ファンデーション」や「口紅」などのメイクアップ用品は、2023 年に大きく回復して以降、月ご
との振れはあるものの、平均を見ると、 「ファンデーション」は横ばい、 「口紅」は平均＋１割程度で
推移している（図表４（ｆ） ）。外出機会の回復やマスク着用機会の減少を背景に、メイクアップ用品
への支出は底堅く推移している。

4｜食事～外食は底堅く、内食では選別が進む 
外食における 「食事代」 は、 コロナ禍の反動増があった2023 年と比べると伸び率こそ緩やかになっ
ているものの、2025 年も引き続き前年を上回る水準で推移している（図表４（ｇ） ） 。外食需要の底堅
さが続いている。

===== Page 19 =====

「飲酒代」は、2024 年の増減率の平均が約７％
であったのに対し、2025 年後半以降は前年を下回
る月が増えている。背景には、 中長期的にアルコ
ール消費自体を抑える傾向が強まっていること
がある5。飲酒頻度を減らしたり、 ノンアルコール
飲料を取り入れたりするなど、 飲み方が多様化す
る中で、 飲酒代は減少傾向に転じつつあるとみら
れる。 
内食 （自炊） の穀類については、2024 年夏にか
けての米価格の上昇による買い込み需要を背景
に、 「米」 に加えて 「パスタ」 や 「パン」 といった
他の穀類の消費も伸びた（図表４ （ｈ） ） 。「米」 の 
代替品として需要が高まったものとみられるが、その後は「米」が反動で減少するとともに、 「パン」
なども減少している。ただし、 「パスタ」や「即席麺」は「米」や「パン」と比べて回復が底堅く、利
便性の高い食品への需要の強さがうかがえる。 
米価格の上昇や需給のひっ迫を受け、政府は2025 年３月下旬から備蓄米の放出を実施したものの、
価格指数は依然として高止まりしている（図表５）。名目支出はピーク時の2025 年10 月 （世帯当たり
月平均5,164 円） から2026 年３月には６割程度 （同3,287 円） まで減少しており、 高価格による買い
控えの影響がうかがえる。食卓の基本である米の支出を抑えざるを得ない様子からは、物価高が日常
の根幹にまで及んでいる現実が透けて見える。 
このほか、内食・中食に関連する品目の動向をみると、 「生鮮肉」は2022 年以降、前年を下回る状
況が続いているが、 足元ではやや改善の兆しもみられる（図表４ （ｉ） ）。一方、 「冷凍調理食品」 や 「即
席麺」は2024 年以降、前年を上回る水準での推移が続いており、 「出前」も名目ベースではあるが堅
調に推移している。 
「生鮮肉」の減少については、物価高が続く中で比較的高価格な食材の購入を控える動きが背景に
あるとみられる。 一方、 「冷凍調理食品」 や 「出前」 といった利便性の高い食事需要が落ち込んでいな
いのは、単身世帯や共働き世帯の増加など中長期的な世帯構造の変化を背景に、利便性を重視する志
向が一段と高まっているためと見られる。 
以上の食事分野の動向からも、消費者が価格と利便性の両面で厳しく選択を行っている姿が浮かび
上がる。高価格な食材を控える一方で、時間や手間を節約できる食品・サービスには一定の支出を維
持するという「メリハリ消費」が、生活の中に定着しつつある。

5 久我尚子「Well-being 時代の飲酒行動－20 代の６割が「ほぼノンアル」 、飲み方にも多様性」 、ニッセイ基礎研究所、基
礎研レポート（2025/5/27） 
図表５ 穀類の品目別価格指数（2020 年＝100）と 
「米」の月平均支出額（二人以上世帯）

（資料）総務省「消費者物価指数」 、 「家計調査」 
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
80
130
180
230
280
13579111357911135791113579111357911135791113
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 20252026
米類
パン
スパゲッティ
カップ麺
米の月平均支出額（右軸）
円

===== Page 20 =====

5｜デジタル娯楽～物価高でも抑制対象とならず、デジタルコンテンツは生活に定着 
「電子書籍」や音楽・映像・ゲームソフトといったデジタルコンテンツへの支出は、コロナ禍によ
る増減を経ながらも、2024 年以降はおおむね前年を上回る水準で推移している（図表４（ｊ） ） 。2025
年は「電子書籍」でマイナスがやや目立つ月もあり、2025 年以降の増減率の平均は▲１％程度と、ほ
ぼ横ばいとなっている。これは、市場としての成熟や定着を示しているとみることもできる。一方、
「DL 版の音楽・映像、アプリなど」の増加率は高水準であり、2025 年以降の増減率の平均はプラス
15％である。 
これらは名目値であるため、 実質ベースでは物価上昇の影響を受けている可能性がある。それでも、
支出額が維持、あるいは増加している点は注目に値する。インターネット上には無料コンテンツや低
価格の代替サービスが数多く存在する中でも、 消費者は一定の支出を維持している。こうした傾向は、
デジタルコンテンツが生活の中で不可欠な価値を持つものとして定着していることの表れといえる。 
物価高により生活必需品への支出を抑える中でも、デジタル娯楽への支出は維持されている。比較
的低価格でアクセスできるデジタルコンテンツは、コストパフォーマンスの高い娯楽として位置づけ
られており、 「メリハリ消費」において優先順位の高い分野となっている様子がうかがえる。

4――おわりに～実質賃金３か月連続プラスの中、選択的消費行動は続く

本稿では、総務省「家計調査」を用いて、2026 年３月までの二人以上世帯の消費動向を分析した。
実質賃金が３か月連続でプラス圏を維持するなど、 家計を取り巻く環境には改善の兆しが続いている。
一方で、物価高の中で培われた消費者の慎重な行動パターンは根強く、生活必需品への支出を抑える
一方で娯楽には一定の支出を維持する「メリハリ消費」が、引き続き確認された。 
分野別にみると、旅行・レジャー分野では、パック旅行費の増加が続いており、特に海外パック旅
行の伸びが顕著であった。円安への心理的順応に加え、費用感を把握しやすい商品の広がりや早めの
予約といった計画的な行動が背景にある。レジャー関連支出も底堅く推移しており、楽しみへの支出
を前向きに選択する姿勢が鮮明に表れている。 
交通費では、 鉄道・バスが2025 年以降プラス圏での推移が続き、 移動需要の定着が確認された。 中
でもレンタカー・カーシェアリングの伸びが目立ち、 旅行・レジャー需要との連動に加え、 「所有から
利用へ」という移動スタイルの構造的な変化が背景にあるとみられる。 
食事分野では、外食需要の底堅さが続く一方、飲酒代は減少傾向へと移行しつつある。内食では、
米の高価格による買い控えが生じる一方で、 即席麺や冷凍調理食品、 出前といった利便性重視の食品 ・
サービスは堅調を維持している。物価高が日常の食卓の基本にまで及ぶ中で、消費者が価格と利便性
の両面で厳しく選択を行っている姿が浮かび上がる。 
アパレル分野では、スーツ需要の縮小傾向が続いており、オフィスウェアのカジュアル化やテレワ
ークの定着という構造的な変化を映している。デジタルコンテンツへの支出は引き続き底堅く、低価
格・無料の代替手段が豊富な中でも一定の対価を支払う行動が定着している。コストパフォーマンス
の高い娯楽として、 「メリハリ消費」における優先順位の高さが改めて確認された。 
先行きについては、イラン情勢を背景とした原油価格の上昇が、エネルギー価格や旅行コストを通

===== Page 21 =====

じて家計に波及するリスクに注意が必要だ。実際、2026 年５～６月発券分からANA・JAL の国際線燃
油サーチャージが欧州・北米路線で片道56,000 円（往復 112,000 円）へと大幅に引き上げられてお
り、足元で回復が続く旅行需要への下押し圧力となりうる。物価が再び上振れした場合には、実質賃
金の改善が途切れ、消費回復のモメンタムが失われるリスクも残る。 
もっとも、 こうした不確実性があるからこそ、 消費者の慎重な選択眼はしばらく維持されるだろう。
消費者は物価高の下でも単純に支出を削減するのではなく、価格・利便性・体験価値を踏まえて支出
先を選別するという「順応」の姿勢を身につけてきた。実質賃金のプラスが続く限り、こうした選択
的な行動様式はメリハリ消費の基調を支え続けると考えられる。物価高の経験を通じて培われた「使
い分けの感覚」は、家計に余裕が戻ったとしても消えるわけではなく、むしろ何にお金を使い何を控
えるかという選択の眼は、より洗練される方向に向かうとみられる。 
こうした変化は企業にとっても重要な示唆を含む。実質賃金の改善が消費の総量拡大に直結すると
は限らない。 求められるのは、 「この支出には価値がある」 と消費者に感じさせる体験設計や、 利便性
と価格のバランスを踏まえた商品 ・ サービスの提供である。 消費者が 「何に」 「なぜ」 お金を使うのか、
その選択の質と方向性への注目は、引き続き重要であり続ける。

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 22 =====

▲0.3 0.0
0.7 0.4
0.4
0.3
▲0.6
0.2 0.5
(▲1.4) (0.1)
(2.7) (1.5)
(1.8)
(1.4)
(▲2.5)
(0.8) (2.1)
▲1.5
▲1.0
▲0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2401 2402 2403 2404 2501 2502 2503 2504 2601
（前期比、％）
（年・四半期）
実質ＧＤＰ成長率の推移
民間最終消費支出 民間企業設備 その他民需 公需 外需
（資料）内閣府経済社会総合研究所「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」
( )内は年率換算値

１. 2026 年 1-3 月期の実質 GDP は、 前期比0.5％（年率 2.1％）と 2 四半期連続のプラス成長
となった（当研究所予測 4 月 30 日：前期比 0.5％、年率 1.8％）。 
２. 民間消費（前期比 0.3％） 、住宅投資（同0.5％） 、設備投資（同0.3％）が揃って増加する
中、2025 年度補正予算の執行に伴い公的固定資本形成が 3 四半期ぶりに増加し、国内需
要は民需、公需ともに 2 四半期連続で増加した。輸出が前期比 1.7％の高い伸びとなり、
輸入の伸び（同 0.5％）を上回ったことから、外需も成長率を押し上げた。 
３. 2025 年度の実質 GDP は前年比 0.8％（2024 年度は 0.5％）と 2 年連続のプラス成長、名
目 GDP は前年比 4.2％（2024 年度は 3.7％）と 5 年連続のプラス成長となった。 
４. 2026 年 1-3 月期は内外需が揃って増加し、0％台半ばから後半とされる潜在成長率を上回
る成長になった。しかし、先行きは中東情勢悪化の影響が顕在化し、経済成長率が押し
下げられる。具体的には、物流の停滞が生産調整を引き起こし、原油価格高騰による交
易条件の悪化が企業収益、家計の実質購買力を下押しする。 
５. 現時点では、2026 年 4-6 月期の実質 GDP は、民間消費、 設備投資が低迷する中、 輸出が
財、サービスともに減少することから、小幅なマイナス成長を予想している。 
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-19

QE 速報：2026 年 1-3 月期の実質ＧＤＰは前
期比 0.5％（年率 2.1％）－前期に続き内外需
揃ったプラス成長

経済研究部 経済調査部長 斎藤  太郎 
(03)3512-1836  tsaito@nli-research.co.jp

===== Page 23 =====

この結果、2025 年度の実質 GDP は前年比 0.8％（2024 年度は 0.5％）と 2 年連続のプラス成長、
名目 GDP は前年比 4.2％（2024 年度は 3.7％）と 5 年連続のプラス成長となった。

＜需要項目別結果＞ （前期比、％）
2025年10-12月期 2026年1-3月期 2025年度
改定値 2次速報値 差 1次速報値 当社予測 差 速報値
(5/19) (3/10) (5/19) (4/30) (5/19)
実質ＧＤＰ 　0.2 　0.3 ▲0.1 　0.5 　0.5 0.0 　0.8
 　　（前期比年率） (　0.8) (　1.3) (▲0.5) (　2.1) (　1.8) (0.2)
内　需 　0.2 　0.3 ▲0.2 　0.2 　0.3 ▲0.0 　1.0
（寄与度） (　0.2) (　0.3) (▲0.2) (　0.2) (　0.3) (▲0.0) (　1.0)
民　需 　0.1 　0.4 ▲0.2 　0.2 　0.3 ▲0.1 　1.1
（寄与度） (　0.1) (　0.3) (▲0.2) (　0.2) (　0.2) (▲0.1) (　0.8)
民間最終消費支出 　0.0 　0.3 ▲0.2 　0.3 　0.2 0.1 　1.2
民間住宅 　5.0 　4.9 0.1 　0.5 　0.8 ▲0.3 ▲3.5
民間企業設備 　1.4 　1.3 0.0 　0.3 　0.2 0.0 　2.4
民間在庫変動 （寄与度） (▲0.4) (▲0.3) (▲0.1) (▲0.1) (　0.0) (▲0.1) (▲0.1)
公　需 　0.2 　0.2 0.1 　0.3 　0.3 0.0 　0.5
（寄与度） (　0.1) (　0.0) (0.0) (　0.1) (　0.1) (0.0) (　0.1)
政府最終消費支出 　0.4 　0.4 0.0 　0.1 　0.1 0.0 　0.8
公的固定資本形成 ▲0.2 ▲0.5 0.3 　1.4 　1.6 ▲0.2 ▲0.6
財貨･ｻｰﾋﾞｽの純輸出 （寄与度） (　0.0) (▲0.0) (0.0) (　0.3) (　0.2) (0.1) (▲0.2)
財貨･ｻｰﾋﾞｽの輸出 　0.2 ▲0.3 0.5 　1.7 　0.6 1.1 　1.9
財貨･ｻｰﾋﾞｽの輸入 ▲0.0 ▲0.3 0.3 　0.5 ▲0.4 0.8 　2.6
名目ＧＤＰ 　0.9 　0.9 0.1 　0.8 　0.8 0.0 　4.2
(資料）内閣府 経済社会総合研究所「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」

＜需要項目別の動き＞ 
民間消費は前期比 0.3％と 5 四半期連続で増加し、10-12 月期の同 0.0％から伸びを高めた。物価
高による下押し圧力は残っているが、ガソリン暫定税率の廃止や電気・都市ガスの支援策の影響で

===== Page 24 =====

住宅投資は前期比 0.5％と 2 四半期連続で増加した。新設住宅着工戸数（季節調整済・年率換算
値）は、建築物省エネ法・建築基準法改正前の駆け込み需要の反動で、2025 年 1-3 月の 86.7 万戸
から 4-6 月期に 62.0 万戸へ急減した後、7-9 月が 71.9 万戸と持ち直し、その後は概ね 70 万戸台半
ばで推移している。GDP 統計の住宅投資は工事の進捗ベースで 計上され、着工の動きがやや遅れ
て反映されるため、7-9 月期の大幅減少の後、10-12 月期、2026 年 1-3 月期と増加した。

設備投資は前期比 0.3％と 2 四半期連続で増加した。日銀短観 2026 年 3 月調査では、2025 年度の
設備投資計画 （含むソフトウェア ・ 研究開発投資額、 除く土地投資額） が2025 年 12 月調査から▲1.3％
下方修正され、 前年度比7.8％ （全規模 ・ 全産業） となったが、2026 年度の当初計画は前年度比 2.7％
となり、2025 年度当初計画の前年度比 2.2％（2025 年 3 月調査）を上回った。 
設備投資は、高水準の企業収益を背景に、人手不足対応の省力化投資、デジタル化に向けた情報
関連投資、E コマース拡大に伴う建設投資などの案件を軸に回復基調が続いている。

公的需要は前期比 0.3％と 2 四半期連続で増加した。政府消費は前期比 0.1％の増加となる中、2025
年度補正予算の執行に伴い公的固定資本形成が前期比 1.4％と 3 四半期ぶりに増加した。

外需寄与度は前期比 0.3％（前期比年率 1.1％）と 2 四半期連続のプラスとなった。財貨・サービ
スの輸出が前期比 1.7％の増加、財貨・サービスの輸入が同0.5％の増加となった。中国からの訪日
客急減を主因としたインバウンド需要の頭打ちなどからサービス輸出は前期比 0.4％と低調だった
が、中国向けが持ち直すなど、財輸出が前期比 2.2％の高い伸びとなった。

（2026 年 4-6 月期は小幅なマイナス成長を予想） 
2026 年 1-3 月期は内外需が揃って増加し、0％台半ばから後半とされる潜在成長率を上回る成長
になった。しかし、先行きは中東情勢悪化の影響が顕在化し、経済成長率が押し下げられる。 
具体的には、物流の停滞が生産調整を引き起こし、原油価格高騰による交易条件の悪化が企業収
益、家計の実質購買力を下押しする。現時点では、2026 年 4-6 月期の実質 GDP は民間消費、設備
投資が低迷する中、輸出が財、サービスともに減少することから、小幅なマイナス成長を予想して
いる。輸出は、財輸出が中東向けを中心に落ち込むことに加え、航空運賃の上昇によるインバウン
ド需要の低迷から、サービス輸出も減少することが見込まれる。

===== Page 25 =====

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 26 =====

【結果概要】 
タイの2026 年1-3 月期の実質GDP 成長率1は前年同期比2.8％となり、 前期の同2.5％から小幅に
加速した（図表１）。市場予想2（2.4％）を上回り、前年同期比では２四半期連続で伸びを高めた。
外部環境の不透明感や家計債務の高止まりなどを背景に景気下振れ懸念が残るなか、 タイ経済の底
堅さを示す結果となった。一方、季節調整済み前期比成長率は 0.7％となり、前期の同 1.9％から
伸びが鈍化しており、回復の勢いはなお緩やかだった。 
需要項目別にみると、 輸出や投資が成長を下支えした一方、 民間消費の伸びは小幅に鈍化してお
り、 内需の回復力にはなお力強さを欠く内容となった。NESDC は 2026 年通年の成長率見通しを1.5
～2.5％に据え置いており、今後は輸出の拡大が持続するかに加え、投資回復が民間需要全体に波
及するかが焦点となる。

【支出別の詳細】 
民間消費は前年同期比 3.2％となり、前期（3.3％）から小幅に鈍化した（図表２）。内訳をみる
と、非耐久財は 3.5％と前期（2.5％）から加速し、半耐久財も 3.5％と前期（2.6％）から伸びを
高めた。耐久財は 6.8％と高めの伸びを維持したものの、前期（12.2％）からは鈍化した。自動車

1  5 月 18 日、タイの国家経済社会開発委員会（ＮＥＳＤＣ）が 2026 年 1-3 月期の国内総生産（ＧＤＰ）を公表した。 
2  Bloomberg 調査 
（図表１） 
▲12%
▲10%
▲8%
▲6%
▲4%
▲2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
2023 2024 2025 2026
民間消費 政府消費 総固定資本形成 在庫変動
純輸出 誤差 実質ＧＤＰ成長率
実質ＧＤＰ成長率（支出別寄与度）（前年同期比）
（年）（資料）ＣＥＩＣ

（図表２） 
3.3
1.3
8.1
5.9
9.5
3.2 3.4
9.9
12.6
21.1
民間消費 政府消費 総固定
資本形成
輸出 輸入
支出別の成長率
25年Q4 26年Q1
（前年同期比、％）
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ

タイ GDP（26 年 1-3 月期） 
～成長予想上振れも、輸入急増で外需は下押し

経済研究部 准主任研究員 斉藤 誠 
(03)3512-1780  msaitou@nli-research.co.jp 
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-18

===== Page 27 =====

【産業別の詳細】 
産業別にみると、農業、鉱工業、サービス業が総じて改善した。 
農林水産業は前年同期比 1.2％となり、前期（0.6％）から加速した（図表３） 。天候や水資源の
状況が良好だったことを背景に、主要作物や畜産が増加した一方、漁業は減少した。品目別では、
アブラヤシ、果物、サトウキビ、ゴム、トウモロコシなどが増加したが、コメ、キャッサバ、エビ
などは減少した。 
（図表３） 
▲2%
▲1%
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
2023 2024 2025 2026
農林水産業 製造業 建設業
小売・卸売 宿泊・飲食・運輸 その他
実質ＧＤＰ成長率
実質ＧＤＰ成長率（産業別寄与度）（前年同期比）
（年）（資料）ＣＥＩＣ

（図表４） 
0.4
11.2
0.6
6.7
0.6
3.2
1.20.9
6.2
1.2
6.0
2.2
3.6
1.4
製造業 建設業 農林
水産業
小売
・卸売業
宿泊
・飲食
運輸
・倉庫
不動産業
産業別の成長率
25年Q4 26年Q1
（前年同期比、％）
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ

===== Page 28 =====

【今後の注目点】 
今後の焦点は、1-3 月期にみられた輸出と投資の回復が持続するかである。電子機器関連を中心
に輸出は大きく伸び、民間投資も機械・設備投資を中心に加速した。もっとも、輸入も急増してお
り、純輸出は成長率を押し下げた。米国の通商政策を巡る不確実性も残るなか、輸出の拡大が一時
的な前倒し需要にとどまらず、生産や雇用の改善につながるかが重要となる。 
また、観光関連需要の回復ペースにも注意が必要である。1-3 月期は観光サービス収入が持ち直
したものの、 外国人観光客数は前年を下回っており、 回復力はなお弱い。NESDC は 2026 年の外国人
観光収入見通しを1.65 兆バーツから1.49 兆バーツへ下方修正しており、 観光部門の成長寄与は従
来想定よりも限られる可能性がある。 
さらに、中東情勢の緊迫化に伴うエネルギー価格の上昇リスクが、新たな下押し要因となる。タ
イはエネルギー輸入への依存度が高く、 原油・天然ガス価格の上昇は企業の生産コストや家計の購
買力を圧迫しうる。NESDC は 2026 年のインフレ率見通しを従来の▲0.3～0.7％から 2.0～3.0％へ
大幅に引き上げており、 物価上昇リスクは金融政策の追加緩和余地を狭める可能性がある。政府は
エネルギーコスト上昇の影響緩和や財政支援を重視しており、 今後は財政政策による景気下支えが
重要性を増すだろう。 
なお、NESDC は2026 年通年の成長率見通しを1.5～2.5％に据え置いた。1-3 月期の成長率は市場
予想を上回ったものの、 中東情勢、 観光回復の遅れ、 家計債務の高止まりなど下振れリスクは多く、
景気の持続力はなお慎重に見極める必要がある。

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 29 =====

1． 結果の概要：総合指数は前年比 5.6％ 
5 月 15 日、ロシア連邦統計局は消費者物価指数を公表し、結果は以下の通りとなった。 
【総合指数（26 年4 月）】 
・前年同月比は5.58％、市場予想1（5.70％）から下振れ、前月（5.86％）から低下（図表1） 
・前月比は0.14％、市場予想（0.30％）から下振れ、前月（0.60％）から低下した 
【コア指数2（26 年 4 月）】 
・前年同月比は4.96％、前月（5.03％）から低下した（図表2） 
・前月比は0.25％、前月（0.54％）から低下した 
（図表 1）

（図表 2）

2． 結果の詳細：青果物の下落がインフレ率を押し下げ 
4 月のロシアのインフレ率は5.58％となり、3 月（5.86％）から低下し、市場予想（5.70％）も
下回った。 これは23 年8 月（5.15％） 以来の低水準となる。この間、ロシア中銀は25 年 6 月以降、
4 月まで8 会合連続での利下げを決定している（政策金利：21.0％→14.5％）。 
インフレ率を大分類別に見ると、4 月の前年比伸び率は食料品が4.02％（前月：4.97％）、 財 （非
食料品）が3.88％（前月：3.54％）、サービスが9.90％（前月：9.96％）となり、財インフレが上
昇する一方で食料インフレが大幅に低下、 サービスインフレもわずかに低下した。後述するように
青果物の下落のインフレ押し下げへの寄与が大きい。前年比寄与度では食料品が 1.6％ポイント程

1 bloomberg 集計の中央値。以下の予想値も同様。 
2 生鮮食品など季節的要因による影響を受ける品目や管理品目を除いた指数。 
9.2
17.8
2.3
5.6
6.0
5.6
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
18/1
19/1
20/1
21/1
22/1
23/1
24/1
25/1
26/1
サービス 財（非食料品） 食料品 全体
ロシアの消費者物価上昇率（前年同月比、％）
（月次）（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局
5.58
4.02
3.88
9.90
4.96
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
（月次）（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局
ロシアのインフレ率（前年比、％）
サービス
食料品
コア
総合指数
財（非食料品）
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-18 
ロシアの物価状況（26 年 4 月） 
－前年比 5.6％、23 年 8 月以来の低い伸び率に

===== Page 30 =====

（図表 4）

ロシア中央銀行が公表する家計のインフレ期待（1 年先中央値、実際のインフレ率よりも高めに
なる傾向がある）は、4 月は12.9％で 3 月（13.4％）から低下した。過去の傾向（期待インフレ率
≒前年比インフレ率＋6％、 図表5）と比較して期待インフレ率が高く、 実際のインフレ率がやや低
い状況は続いている。4 月は実際のインフレ率、期待インフレ率ともに低下する形となった。 
品目別の上昇率を見ると3（図表 6）、4 月は前年比で保険サービス （14.72％） 、住居・公益サービ
ス（14.22％）の伸び率が高い一方、バター （▲
7.81％） 、その他サービス（▲6.62％）、青果物
（▲6.56％）は前年比で大幅マイナスとなった。
また、 前月比では、健康増進サービス （4.54％） 、
グラニュー糖 （2.91％） 、の上昇率が高い一方で、
海外旅行サービス（▲ 3.85％） 、青果物（▲
2.95％）などがマイナスとなった。 
各品目の消費ウエイトも考慮して、全体のイ
ンフレ率への寄与を品目別に見ると（図表 7・
8） 、 前年比上昇率への寄与が大きい品目は住居 ・
公益サービス（1.40％ポイント） 、家庭サービス （0.61％ポイント） 、ガソリン（0.56％ポイント）、
アルコール（0.45％ポイント）、下落率への寄与が大きい品目は青果物（▲0.31％ポイント） 、その
他サービス （▲0.12％ポイント） 、だった。また、前月比上昇率のプラス寄与では家庭サービス（約

3 大分類である食料品、財（非食料品） 、サービスをそれぞれ細目別に分類したもの（中分類）のうち、統計局のウェブサイトで公表
しているものを記載。健康増進サービスおよび残差から算出されたその他サービスは前月比のみ。 
▲ 0.52
1.14
1.43
▲ 0.40
1.62
0.14
▲ 1.0
▲ 0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
18/1
18/4
18/7
18/10
19/1
19/4
19/7
19/10
20/1
20/4
20/7
20/10
21/1
21/4
21/7
21/10
22/1
22/4
22/7
22/10
23/1
23/4
23/7
23/10
24/1
24/4
24/7
24/10
25/1
25/4
25/7
25/10
26/1
26/4
（月次）（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局
ロシアのインフレ率（前月比）（％）
総合指数
コア指数
7.61
0.23
0.58
0.42
0.66
▲ 0.02
0.50
0.79
▲ 0.13
0.23
0.05
0.73
0.07
▲ 0.2
▲ 0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
21/6
21/9
21/12
22/3
22/6
22/9
22/12
23/3
23/6
23/9
23/12
24/3
24/6
24/9
24/12
25/3
25/6
25/9
25/12
26/3
（週次）（資料）Datastream、ロシア連邦統計局
ロシアのインフレ率（前週比）（％） 2.22
（図表 5）

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
（インフレ期待：日次、物価：月次）
（注）家計のインフレ期待は1年先の中央値
（資料）Ｄａｔａｓｔｒｅａｍ、Bloomberg
ロシアのインフレ率と家計のインフレ期待（％）
インフレ率（右軸）
家計のインフレ期待
（％）

===== Page 31 =====

（図表 7）

（図表 8）

▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
▲ 8
▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
全体〔100.0〕
全体〔39.0〕
肉〔4.2〕
魚・海鮮〔1.9〕
バター〔0.8〕
植物油〔0.3〕
乳製品〔3.1〕
卵〔0.5〕
グラニュー糖〔0.3〕
パン・パン製品〔1.6〕
穀物・豆〔0.7〕
パスタ〔0.4〕
青果物〔4.8〕
アルコール飲料〔4.3〕
非食料品〔32.8〕
衣類〔3.9〕
ニット〔1.0〕
履物〔1.6〕
洗剤〔0.8〕
タバコ〔1.1〕
電化製品〔1.1〕
テレビ〔0.2〕
建設資材〔1.0〕
ガソリン〔4.5〕
薬〔2.1〕
織物〔0.0〕
全体〔28.2〕
家庭サービス〔5.2〕
旅客サービス〔2.1〕
通信サービス〔2.6〕
住居・公益サービス〔9.9〕
居住サービス〔0.4〕
就学前教育サービス〔0.4〕
教育サービス〔1.3〕
文化サービス〔0.4〕
健康増進サービス〔0.4〕
医療サービス〔1.7〕
海外旅行サービス〔1.0〕
スポーツサービス〔0.5〕
保険サービス〔0.5〕
その他〔1.8〕
食料品 非食料品 サービス
ロシアの品目別インフレ率前月比（右軸） 前年比
（注）大分類の中のその他の項目は残差から計算、〔〕内はウエイト、全品目を記載していないため、品目のウエイト合計は100にはならない
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局
（前年比、％） （前月比、％）
▲ 0.4
▲ 0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
住居・公益サービス〔9.9〕
家庭サービス〔5.2〕
ガソリン（非食料品）〔4.5〕
アルコール飲料（食料品）〔4.3〕
肉（食料品）〔4.2〕
医療サービス〔1.7〕
薬（非食料品）〔2.1〕
旅客サービス〔2.1〕
教育サービス〔1.3〕
パン・パン製品（食料品）〔1.6〕
魚・海鮮（食料品）〔1.9〕
保険サービス〔0.5〕
タバコ（非食料品）〔1.1〕
海外旅行サービス〔1.0〕
卵（食料品）〔0.5〕
文化サービス〔0.4〕
健康増進サービス〔0.4〕
スポーツサービス〔0.5〕
通信サービス〔2.6〕
乳製品（食料品）〔3.1〕
居住サービス〔0.4〕
衣類（非食料品）〔3.9〕
就学前教育サービス〔0.4〕
洗剤（非食料品）〔0.8〕
建設資材（非食料品）〔1.0〕
ニット（非食料品）〔1.0〕
パスタ（食料品）〔0.4〕
植物油（食料品）〔0.3〕
織物（非食料品）〔0.0〕
グラニュー糖（食料品）〔0.3〕
テレビ（非食料品）〔0.2〕
履物（非食料品）〔1.6〕
穀物・豆（食料品）〔0.7〕
電化製品（非食料品）〔1.1〕
バター（食料品）〔0.8〕
その他サービス〔1.8〕
青果物（食料品）〔4.8〕
ロシアの品目別インフレ率（前年比寄与度、抜粋）
2026/4
（前年比寄与度、％）
（注）大分類の中のその他の項目は残差から計算、〔〕内はウエイト、全品目を記載していないため、品目のウエイト合計は100にはならない
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局
▲ 0.15
▲ 0.10
▲ 0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
家庭サービス〔5.2〕
旅客サービス〔2.1〕
アルコール飲料（食料品）〔4.3〕
ガソリン（非食料品）〔4.5〕
肉（食料品）〔4.2〕
医療サービス〔1.7〕
健康増進サービス〔0.4〕
その他サービス〔1.8〕
薬（非食料品）〔2.1〕
魚・海鮮（食料品）〔1.9〕
タバコ（非食料品）〔1.1〕
居住サービス〔0.4〕
グラニュー糖（食料品）〔0.3〕
衣類（非食料品）〔3.9〕
住居・公益サービス〔9.9〕
保険サービス〔0.5〕
パン・パン製品（食料品）〔1.6〕
通信サービス〔2.6〕
建設資材（非食料品）〔1.0〕
植物油（食料品）〔0.3〕
文化サービス〔0.4〕
ニット（非食料品）〔1.0〕
パスタ（食料品）〔0.4〕
教育サービス〔1.3〕
穀物・豆（食料品）〔0.7〕
就学前教育サービス〔0.4〕
スポーツサービス〔0.5〕
織物（非食料品）〔0.0〕
履物（非食料品）〔1.6〕
洗剤（非食料品）〔0.8〕
卵（食料品）〔0.5〕
テレビ（非食料品）〔0.2〕
バター（食料品）〔0.8〕
電化製品（非食料品）〔1.1〕
乳製品（食料品）〔3.1〕
海外旅行サービス〔1.0〕
青果物（食料品）〔4.8〕
ロシアの品目別インフレ率（前月比寄与度、抜粋）
2026/4
（前月比寄与度、％）
（注）大分類の中のその他の項目は残差から計算、〔〕内はウエイト、全品目を記載していないため、品目のウエイト合計は100にはならない
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局

===== Page 32 =====

（図表 9）

（図表 10）

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。 
▲ 0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
住居・公益サービス〔9.6〕
家庭サービス〔5.0〕
ガソリン（非食料品）〔4.4〕
肉製品（食料品）〔8.8〕
アルコール飲料（食料品）〔4.1〕
ケータリング（食料品）〔2.6〕
医療サービス〔1.5〕
医薬品（非食料品）〔2.5〕
その他（非食料品）〔4.4〕
菓子（食料品）〔2.6〕
旅客サービス〔2.2〕
魚製品（食料品）〔2.3〕
パン・パン製品（食料品）〔1.5〕
教育サービス〔1.2〕
その他（食料品）〔2.8〕
紅茶・コーヒー（食料品）〔1.1〕
香水・化粧品（非食料品）〔1.7〕
海外旅行サービス〔1.0〕
保険サービス〔0.6〕
タバコ（非食料品）〔1.2〕
乳製品（食料品）〔3.2〕
家具（非食料品）〔1.5〕
通信サービス〔2.6〕
文化サービス〔0.3〕
健康増進サービス〔0.4〕
スポーツサービス〔0.5〕
居住サービス〔0.4〕
就学前教育サービス〔0.4〕
洗剤（非食料品）〔0.8〕
衣類（非食料品）〔3.9〕
その他サービス〔1.9〕
チーズ（食料品）〔1.4〕
印刷物（非食料品）〔0.2〕
建設資材（非食料品）〔1.0〕
卵（食料品）〔0.6〕
高級品（非食料品）〔0.9〕
乗用車（非食料品）〔5.7〕
ニット（非食料品）〔1.0〕
毛皮（非食料品）〔0.1〕
テレビ（非食料品）〔0.2〕
コンピュータ（非食料品）〔0.4〕
砂糖（食料品）〔0.3〕
パスタ・穀物（食料品）〔1.1〕
履物（非食料品）〔1.6〕
通信機器（非食料品）〔0.9〕
電化製品（非食料品）〔1.2〕
油脂（食料品）〔1.3〕
青果物（食料品）〔5.1〕
ロシアの品目別インフレ率（前年比寄与度）
2026/3
（前年比寄与度、％）
（注）各大分類の中のその他の項目は残差から計算、〔〕内はウエイト
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局
▲ 0.02
▲ 0.01
0.00
0.01
0.02
0.03
0.04
0.05
0.06
0.07
家庭サービス〔5.0〕
その他サービス〔1.9〕
海外旅行サービス〔1.0〕
卵（食料品）〔0.6〕
旅客サービス〔2.2〕
ガソリン（非食料品）〔4.4〕
アルコール飲料（食料品）〔4.1〕
その他（非食料品）〔4.4〕
医療サービス〔1.5〕
ケータリング（食料品）〔2.6〕
医薬品（非食料品）〔2.5〕
その他（食料品）〔2.8〕
乗用車（非食料品）〔5.7〕
健康増進サービス〔0.4〕
パン・パン製品（食料品）〔1.5〕
魚製品（食料品）〔2.3〕
通信サービス〔2.6〕
タバコ（非食料品）〔1.2〕
香水・化粧品（非食料品）〔1.7〕
保険サービス〔0.6〕
砂糖（食料品）〔0.3〕
菓子（食料品）〔2.6〕
居住サービス〔0.4〕
衣類（非食料品）〔3.9〕
肉製品（食料品）〔8.8〕
家具（非食料品）〔1.5〕
教育サービス〔1.2〕
履物（非食料品）〔1.6〕
スポーツサービス〔0.5〕
コンピュータ（非食料品）〔0.4〕
洗剤（非食料品）〔0.8〕
就学前教育サービス〔0.4〕
印刷物（非食料品）〔0.2〕
青果物（食料品）〔5.1〕
通信機器（非食料品）〔0.9〕
文化サービス〔0.3〕
ニット（非食料品）〔1.0〕
テレビ（非食料品）〔0.2〕
高級品（非食料品）〔0.9〕
建設資材（非食料品）〔1.0〕
毛皮（非食料品）〔0.1〕
パスタ・穀物（食料品）〔1.1〕
住居・公益サービス〔9.6〕
電化製品（非食料品）〔1.2〕
紅茶・コーヒー（食料品）〔1.1〕
乳製品（食料品）〔3.2〕
チーズ（食料品）〔1.4〕
油脂（食料品）〔1.3〕
ロシアの品目別インフレ率（前月比寄与度）
2026/3
（前月比寄与度、％）
（注）各大分類の中のその他の項目は残差から計算
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ、ロシア連邦統計局

===== Page 33 =====

１．不動産販売床面積 
・中国国家統計局が 2026 年 5 月 18 日に 26 年 4 月の不動産関連統計を発表した。不動産販売床面積
の前年同月比（当社試算値、 図表1） は、▲9.5％となった （前月は▲7.4％）。当社試算の前月比 （図
表 2）は、▲1.1％となった（前月は＋6.9％）。

２．住宅販売価格（70 都市） 
・26 年 4 月の住宅販売価格 （70 都市単純平均）は、前年同月比で▲3.7％となった （前月は▲3.6％）
（図表 3）。2・3 線都市で下落幅が拡大した。前月比では、▲0.2％となった（前月は▲0.2％）（図
表 4）。1 線都市で上昇幅が縮小、2 線都市では下落幅が縮小、3 線都市では下落幅が拡大した。

ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-18 
中国の不動産関連統計（26 年 4 月） 
～不動産販売の減少幅が前月から拡大

▲ 25
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
不動産販売床面積
東部
中部
西部
東北部
全国
（前年比、％）
（年/月）
（注）1・2月は年初来累計。地方別の寄与度は25年12月まで。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
2019/1 2021/1 2023/1 2025/1
不動産販売床面積
（千万m2）
（年/月）（注）季節調整値（当社試算値）。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成

===== Page 34 =====

３．不動産開発投資 
・不動産開発投資の前年同月比（当社試算値、図表 5）は、▲19.6％となった（前月は▲11.3％）。当
社試算の前月比（図表 6）は、▲5.5％となった（前月は▲9.1％）。

（図表 3） （図表 4）

▲ 7
▲ 6
▲ 5
▲ 4
▲ 3
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
住宅販売価格
70都市平均
1線都市
2線都市
3線都市
（前年比、％）
（年/月）（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 1.0
▲ 0.8
▲ 0.6
▲ 0.4
▲ 0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
住宅販売価格
70都市平均
1線都市
2線都市
3線都市
（前月比、％）
（年/月）（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（図表 5） （図表 6）

▲ 40
▲ 35
▲ 30
▲ 25
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
不動産開発投資額
東部
中部
西部
東北部
全国
（前年比、％）
（年/月）（注）1・2月は年初来累計。地方別の寄与度は25年12月まで。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
2019/1 2021/1 2023/1 2025/1
不動産開発投資額
（千億元）
（年/月）（注）季節調整値（当社試算値）。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成

===== Page 35 =====

５．その他指標 
・不動産開発投資資金の前年同月比 （当社試算値、 図表8） は、▲21.9％となった （前月は▲18.7％）
（図表 8）。 
・不動産完成在庫床面積は 7.8 億 m2 で、前年同月比のマイナス幅は小幅に拡大した（図表 9） 。住宅
着工床面積（3 カ月後方移動平均、以下同）の前年同月比はマイナス幅が小幅に拡大、住宅竣工床
面積の前年同月比はマイナス幅が縮小した。

1 不動産開発投資を基準指標とし、不動産投資・資金・面積・販売関連の指標を選び、季節要因を取り除いて算出した
指標。通常、100 が最適、95～105 が適度、95 以下が不景気、105 以上が過熱気味。 
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。 
（図表 8） （図表 9）

▲ 35
▲ 30
▲ 25
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
当期不動産開発資金
銀行貸出
販売代金
その他
合計
（前年比、％）
（年/月）（注）1・2月は年初来累計。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 40
▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
不動産着工・竣工・在庫床面積
着工
竣工
在庫
（前年比、％）
（年/月）（注）着工および竣工は3カ月後方移動平均。
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（図表 7）

80
85
90
95
100
105
110
2019/1 2020/1 2021/1 2022/1 2023/1 2024/1 2025/1
全国不動産開発景気指数
（年/月）
（資料）中国国家統計局、CEICより、ニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（2012年＝100）

===== Page 36 =====

【結果概要】 
マレーシアの 2026 年 1-3 月期の実質 GDP 成長率1は前年同期比 5.4％となり、前期（2025 年 10-
12 月期：同6.2％） から減速したものの、 ５％台の堅調な伸びを維持した （図表１） 。 また統計局が
４月に公表した1-3 月期の事前推計値（同5.3％）から小幅に上方修正された。 
需要面では、民間消費と投資を中心とする内需が引き続き成長を下支えした。もっとも、政府消
費や公共投資の伸びが鈍化しており、公的部門の押し上げ効果は弱まった。一方、民間消費と民間
投資は底堅さを維持しており、内需の中心は引き続き民間部門にあった。外需については、輸出入
ともに伸びが鈍化したものの、輸出の伸びが輸入を上回り、純輸出は成長を小幅に押し上げた。 
総じて、1-3 月期のマレーシア経済は前期の高成長から減速したものの、内需に支えられて堅調
な成長を維持した。ただし、内需の勢いには一服感がみられるほか、米国の通商政策や地政学リス
クなど外部環境の不透明感も強く、先行きは内需の持続力と輸出の回復ペースが焦点となる。

【支出別の詳細】 
家計最終消費支出は前年同期比4.7％となり、前期の同 5.6％から鈍化した （図表２） 。 もっとも、
雇用・所得環境の改善を背景に底堅い伸びを維持しており、レストラン・ホテル（同12.9％）や輸
送（同9.2％）、通信（同9.0％） 、衣服・履物（同8.4％）を中心に消費が拡大した。一方、住宅・
水道・電気・ガス（同2.2％）や食料・飲料（同3.7％）は伸びが比較的緩やかだった。 
政府最終消費支出は前年同期比 4.1％となり、前期の同 6.6％から伸びが減速した。物品・サー

1 2026 年5 月15 日、マレーシア統計局が2026 年1-3 月期の国内総生産（ＧＤＰ）を公表した。 
（図表１）

（図表２）

▲6%
▲4%
▲2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
2023 2024 2025 2026
民間消費 政府消費
民間投資 公共投資
在庫変動 純輸出
実質ＧＤＰ成長率
実質ＧＤＰ成長率（支出別寄与度）（前年同期比）
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ （四半期）
5.6
6.6
9.3
6.3
9.0
4.7 
4.1 
7.3 
5.2 
4.6 
家計消費 政府消費 総固定
資本形成
輸出 輸入
支出別の成長率
25年Q4 26年Q1
（前年同期比、％）
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ
ニッセイ基礎研究所 
マレーシア GDP（2026 年 1-3 月期） 
～5％台成長を維持も、内需の勢いに一服感

2026-05-15

===== Page 37 =====

【産業別の詳細】 
サービス業は前年同期比 5.6％となり、前期の同 6.2％から鈍化したものの、引き続き成長の主
なけん引役となった （図表３） 。宿泊業 （同13.5％） や運輸 ・ 倉庫（同8.5％）、情報 ・ 通信（同 8.1％）、
ビジネスサービス（同6.4％）、飲食（同 6.2％）が高めの伸びを維持し、卸売・小売業が同4.8％
と底堅く推移した。 個人消費や観光関連需要の拡大に加え、 デジタル関連需要がサービス業の成長
を支えたとみられる。一方、金融（同▲0.2％）や保険（同1.4％）は低調だった。 
製造業は前年同期比 5.9％となり、前期の同 6.0％から小幅に鈍化したが、堅調な伸びを維持し
た。輸送用機器 （同▲3.4％） や石油製品 （同▲1.8％）、 化学製品 （同▲0.3％）は低調だった一方、
主力の電子機器（同15.6％）や動植物性油脂（同11.5％） 、食品加工（同8.0％）は高い伸びが続
くなど、業種間でばらつきがみられた。 
建設業は前年同期比7.7％となり、 前期の同10.9％から減速したものの、 引き続き高めの伸びを
維持した。専門建設活動が同 15.9％と二桁成長を記録し、非住宅建築も同 10.1％と堅調に拡大し
た。一方、住宅建築は同 3.9％、土木は同 0.7％と比較的緩やかな伸びにとどまり、建設業全体の
伸びは前期から鈍化した。 
農林水産業は前年同期比2.6％となり、 前期の同5.7％から鈍化した。 パーム油が同5.5％増加し
（図表３）

（図表４）

▲1%
0%
1%
2%
3%
4%
5%
6%
7%
2023 2024 2025 2026
農林水産業 鉱業 製造業
建設業 サービス業 その他
実質ＧＤＰ成長率
実質ＧＤＰ成長率（産業別寄与度）（前年同期比）
（四半期）（資料）ＣＥＩＣ
6.0
1.4
10.9
10.0
8.8
7.3
5.75.9
▲ 2.1
7.7 8.0 8.5
6.4
2.6
製造業 鉱業 建設業 宿泊・
飲食業
運輸
・倉庫業
ビジネス
サービス業
農林
水産業
産業別の成長率
25年Q4 26年Q1
（前年同期比、％）
（資料）ＣＥＩＣ

===== Page 38 =====

【今後の注目点】 
今後の焦点は、内需の底堅さが外部環境の悪化をどこまで吸収できるかである。1-3 月期は民間消費と
投資がいずれも前期から鈍化しており、成長の勢いには一服感がみられる。雇用・所得環境の改善は引き
続き家計消費を下支えするとみられる が、生活費負担の高まりや補助金見直しに伴う 物価上昇圧力 が消
費マインドの重石となる可能性がある。 
投資面では、電気・電子分野やデータセンター関連の投資拡大が引き続き注目される。マレーシアは半
導体後工程や電子部品分野での集積を有しており、AI 関連需要の拡大やサプライチェーン再編の流れは
設備投資を下支えする材料となる。 もっとも、公共部門の投資は前期から減速しており、インフラ事業の進
捗が鈍れば建設投資の下押し要因となる。 
外部環境では、米国の通商政策に加え、中東情勢の悪化に伴う原油価格の上昇リスクに注意が必要で
ある。マレーシアは石油・天然ガスを輸出する資源国であり、油価上昇は石油関連収入の増加を通じて財
政面の下支え要因となる。一方で、燃料価格の上昇は輸送費や企業コストを通じて物価を押し上げるほか、
政府が燃料価格を抑制すれば補助金負担の増加につながる。とりわけエネルギー投入比率の高い産業で
は、原油高や供給制約が生産コストの上昇を通じて企業収益や生産活動の重石となる恐れがある。また、
航空燃料費の上昇は航空運賃や旅行コストにも波及 し、観光関連需要の回復ペースを鈍らせる可能性が
ある。 
金融政策面では、インフレが引き続き抑制されていることから、中銀は当面、政策金利を据え置く公
算が大きい。ただし、原油高や補助金見直しを通じた物価上昇圧力が広範化・長期化すれば、金融政策
運営の自由度は低下し、利上げリスクが意識されやすくなる。高油価は歳入面ではプラスに働く一方、
物価・観光・財政面では下押し要因にもなりうるため、成長を下支えする効果と景気の重石となる効果
が併存する展開となろう。 
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 39 =====

1. 国内企業物価の上昇率は前年比 4.9％ 
日本銀行が 5 月 15 日に発表した企業物価指数
によると、2026 年 4 月の国内企業物価は前年比
4.9％（3 月：同 2.9％）と上昇率が前月から 2.0
ポイント拡大し、2023 年 5 月（同5.4％）以来の
高い伸びとなった。 
内訳をみると、23 類別中 20 類別が上昇、3 類
別が低下となった。政府の「中東情勢を踏まえた
緊急的激変緩和措置」によって、ガソリンは前月
比▲3.8％、灯油は同▲1.5％となったものの、中
東情勢の緊迫化を背景とした 原油価格 の上昇 を
受けて、ナフサ（粗製ガソリン）が同83.2％、Ｂ
重油・Ｃ重油が同 46.0％と大幅な上昇となった。
前年比でみると、ガソリンは▲12.7％（3 月：▲
9.0％）とマイナス幅が拡大し、灯油は 6.0％（3
月：8.4％）と上昇率が縮小した。 一方、ナフサが
79.4％（3 月：▲11.9％）、Ｂ重油・Ｃ重油が 9.1％（3 月：▲31.2％）となったことなどから、石
油・石炭製品は前年比5.3％（3 月：同▲7.1％）と前年比プラスに転じた。 
こうした動きを受けて、ナフサを原料とするエチレンは前年比 63.5％（3 月：同▲9.0％）と急
伸し、化学製品は同9.2％（3 月：同0.8％）と大幅な上昇となった。 
非鉄金属は前年比 37.9％（3 月：同 31. 5％）と前月から伸びが拡大した。金属価格の高騰を受
けて、銀地金が前年比 159.8 ％（ 3 月：同
155.0％） 、銅が同55.3％（3 月：同 38.5％）と
なった。 
コメを含む農林水産物は前年比12.5％（3 月：
同 17.4％）と伸びが前月から縮小した。精米は
前年比14.3％（3 月：同24.7％）、 玄米は同16.1％
（3 月：同 26.0％）と前年の高い伸びの裏が出
る形で上昇率は大きく縮小した。 
飲食料品は前年比4.1％（3 月：同 4.3％）と
伸びが縮小している。チョコレート（前年比14.6％） 、米菓（同13.6％） 、みそ（同17.8％） 、ジュ

前月比 前年比 前月比 前年比 前月比 前年比
25年 3月 0.3 4.3 -1.1 -0.3 -1.6 -2.5
4月 0.3 3.9 -1.9 -4.3 -2.9 -7.3
5月 -0.1 3.1 -0.9 -6.6 -1.0 -10.3
6月 -0.1 2.8 0.1 -7.2 -1.5 -12.0
7月 0.2 2.5 1.8 -5.6 2.0 -10.6
8月 -0.2 2.6 0.4 0.0 0.4 -4.3
9月 0.5 2.8 0.5 2.4 0.3 -1.2
10月 0.5 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.4 -1.6
11月 0.3 2.7 1.8 2.5 1.6 -1.6
12月 0.1 2.4 1.7 5.1 1.2 0.2
26年 1月 0.3 2.4 2.8 6.8 1.9 0.6
2月 0.0 2.1 1.0 9.3 0.1 2.7
3月 1.0 2.9 1.6 12.2 3.5 8.0
4月 2.3 4.9 4.0 18.9 5.6 17.5
（資料）日本銀行「企業物価指数」
企業物価指数の推移
国内企業物価 輸出物価
（円ベース）
輸入物価
（円ベース）
ニッセイ基礎研究所 
企業物価指数 2026 年 4 月 
～原油 高の影響で 円ベースの輸入物価が急伸
～

===== Page 40 =====

2. 円ベースの輸入物価は前年比 17.5％と急伸 
2026 年4 月の契約通貨ベースの輸入物価は前年比7.9％（3 月：同 2.2％）と大きく上昇した。
内訳をみると、原油が前年比6.0％（3 月：同▲13.4％）、ナフサが同22.7％（3 月：同▲
12.8％）、ジェット燃料油が同107.2％（3 月：同11.9％）となったことなどから、石油・石炭・
天然ガスは前年比9.0％（3 月：同▲8.3％）と2024 年 8 月以来の前年比プラスとなった。電気・
電子機器は前年比12.4％（3 月：同10.0％）と前月から伸びが拡大している。半導体メモリの価
格高騰を受けて、モス型メモリ集積回路が前年比253.8％（3 月：同212.7％） 、記録メディアが同
129.6％（3 月：同116.0％）といずれも前月から伸びが拡大した。 
4 月の為替相場は対ドルで159 円台（前月比0.4％）と、3 月からやや円安・ドル高が進行し
た。こうした契約通貨ベースの輸入物価の大幅上昇、円安・ドル高の進行を受けて、円ベースで
は前年比17.5％（3 月：同8.0％）と急伸し、為替要因が9.6％押し上げに寄与した。

3. 先行きの国内企業物価は前年比上昇率がさらに拡大 
先行きの国内企業物価は不透明感が強いものの、 前年比上昇率がさらに拡大していくと予想する。 
原油価格の高騰を受けて、2025 年6 月以降に国内企業物価の押し下げに寄与していた石油 ・ 石炭
製品はプラスに転じた。その影響は化学製品にまで波及し始めている。また、ドル円は158 円台 （執
筆時点）と円安水準が続いており、輸入物価が今後も上昇する可能性が高い。川上である輸入物価
の上昇は、タイムラグを伴いながら、川中の国内企業物価、さらには川下の消費者物価へと波及し
ていくとみられる。 
このところ前年比の伸びが鈍化傾向にある飲食料品については、 輸入物価の上昇に伴う原材料コ
ストの増加を背景に、今後は伸び率が拡大していく可能性がある。電気・都市ガス代の支援策は 4
-20%
-15%
-10%
-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
23/01 23/07 24/01 24/07 25/01 25/07 26/01
輸入物価指数の前年比推移（総平均）
為替要因
契約通貨ベース
円ベース
（年/月）（資料）日本銀行「企業物価指数」
（前年比）

===== Page 41 =====

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 42 =====

1――日本経済はコロナ前の水準を上回っているものの、牽引役は政府消費

日本の実質ＧＤＰは、コロナ禍での大幅な落ち込
みから回復し、直近（2025 年10-12 月期）はコロナ
前の2018年度平均と比べると1＋1.8％上回る水準に
ある。しかし、回復の内容について、需要項目別に
寄与度分解をすると（図１）、 民需主導の力強い景気
回復になっているとは言い難い状況にある。 
実質ＧＤＰの成長に最も寄与しているのは政府消
費（政府最終消費支出）であり、直近の寄与度は＋
2.4％pt である。 政府消費はコロナ禍の間も、 足元に
おいても増加傾向を続けており、日本経済を牽引し
ている。

（備考）内閣府「国民経済計算」により作成。 
2.4
1.8
-11
-10
-9
-8
-7
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
19 20 21 22 23 24 25
図１ 実質GDPの寄与度分解
民間住宅
外需
公共投資
政府消費
民間在庫
民間設備
民間消費
GDP
（年度）
（2018年度比、％、％pt）
2026-05-15 
基礎研 
レ タ ー 
＜要旨＞ 
○ 実質ＧＤＰの水準はコロナ前と比べ＋２％弱上回っているが、成長への寄与の大半は政府
消費である。 民間企業設備投資は徐々に存在感が高まっているが、民間消費を含めた他の需要
項目はマイナスであり、政府消費の支えがなければ日本経済はコロナ前に回復していない。 
○ 実質政府消費の拡大の要因を見ると、高齢化による医療 ・ 介護給付の増加と、政府サービス
の提供に係る物件費の増加が大半である。物件費についてはコロナ禍での一時的な支出増が
落ち着いてきた一方、2023、24 年度は「防衛」の寄与が急拡大した。 
○ 今後も、 高齢化要因は継続し、 防衛力強化による公共投資を含めたＧＤＰ押上げも少なくと
も当面は続くと考えられる。しかし、 持続的な成長のためには民需が重要であり、 物価上昇に
負けない賃上げの継続、生産性の向上、供給制約の克服などが必要である。 
政府消費主導の景気回復 
高齢化による給付増や防衛等の物件費増が牽引役

経済研究部 主任研究員 野村 彰宏 
(03)3512-1838  a-nomura@nli-research.co.jp 
ニッセイ基礎研究所

===== Page 43 =====

2――実質政府消費を押し上げているのは高齢化による医療・介護給付費の増加と物件費の増加

ＳＮＡの年次推計は、現在2024 年度分までが公表
されている。これを用いて、政府消費（ＣＧ）の伸
びを寄与度分解する。それに際しては、物価変動の
影響を考慮するため、ＣＧデフレーターによって実
質化2した上で分析を行う。 
まず性質別の寄与度分解を見ると （図２）、実質政
府消費は 2024 年度時点でコロナ前比＋12％増加し
ているが、 そのうち寄与の半分弱＋5.6％pt は 「現物
社会移転 （市場産出の購入） 」 である（なお、 実質Ｇ
ＤＰへの寄与度は＋1.0％pt）。これは、政府の社会
保障制度における医療・介護の保険給付費の伸びに
よるものである。民間部門により提供（市場産出）
される医療・介護サービスのうち、保険給付範囲の
対価を政府が支払っていることから政府消費に計上
されているが、サービスの便益を実際に受け取って
いるのは家計である（サービスという「現物」は家
計に移転され消費される） 。 
現物社会移転を更に「目的別」（機能別とも言う）
に分解すると（図３）、 「保健」 が＋4.0％pt の寄与と
なっており、ほとんどが医療給付費とみられる。残
りは 「社会保護」 が＋1.5％pt で、大部分が介護給付

（備考）内閣府「国民経済計算」により作成。現物社会移転は
ここでは「市場産出の購入」を指す。 
1.2 0.7
3.1 4.0 5.3 5.63.2
4.7
5.4 4.2 5.3
1.5
-1.4
0.0
2.4
5.1
9.0
10.3 9.5
12.0
-2.0
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
14.0
2018 201920202021202220232024
図２ 実質政府消費の寄与度分解（性質別）
現物社会移転 中間投入
固定資本減耗 雇用者報酬
その他 実質CG
（年度）
（2018年度比、％、％pt）
0.8
2.2 2.9
4.0 4.0
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.3 1.5
0.0
1.2
0.7
3.1
4.0
5.3 5.6
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
2018 2019 2020 2021 202220232024
図３ 現物社会移転の寄与度分解（目的別）
保健 社会保護
その他 市場産出の購入
（年度）
（2018年度比、実質CGに対する寄与度、％pt）

===== Page 44 =====

3――中間投入への寄与は防衛が大きい

中間投入について も目的別に寄与度分解すると
（図４）、2024 年度の寄与度が大きいのは「防衛」＋
1.9％pt で、2023 年度から急に拡大している。防衛
費対ＧＤＰ比２％の目標に向けた防衛力整備計画に
基づき、2023 年度から大幅に増額された予算が一部
反映されていると思われる。予算の多くを占める防
衛装備品の購入は公共投資（弾薬類4は除く）になる
ため、それ以外の物件費がここに表れている。なお、
実質ＧＤＰへの寄与度は＋0.3％pt である（固定資
本減耗なども含めた防衛ＣＧ全体は＋0.4％pt）。 
政府消費ではないものの、防衛装備品の影響も気
になるところであるが、図１で見たように公共投資
（公的固定資本形成、ＩＧ）の実質ＧＤＰへの寄与
はコロナ前比でマイナスである。一般政府の実質公
共投資5を寄与度分解すると （図５） 、 公共投資はコロ
ナ前比▲1.4％の減少となっているうち、防衛は＋
1.0％pt の寄与となっている。2022 年度までマイナ
ス寄与が拡大していたところ から増加に転じてお

（備考）内閣府「国民経済計算」により作成。 
1.1
2.6 3.3
0.9 0.5
1.1 1.90.9
0.8 0.9
0.5 0.60.5
0.70.8
1.0
0.0
0.8
3.2
4.7 5.4
4.2
5.3
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024
図４ 中間投入の寄与度分解
保健 社会保護 防衛
経済業務 教育 一般公共
その他 中間投入
（年度）
（2018年度比、実質CGに対する寄与度、％pt）
-1.2-1.0 -1.1 -1.3
1.01.6
5.2
3.1
-1.2 -2.7 -3.3
2.0
2.00.0
3.7
9.0
2.0
-3.8 -3.6
-1.4
-6.0
-4.0
-2.0
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
2018 2019 2020 2021 202220232024
図５ 実質公共投資の寄与度分解
住宅・地域ｱﾒﾆﾃｨ 防衛 経済業務
教育 その他 実質IG
（2018年度比、％、％pt）
（年度）

===== Page 45 =====

（備考）内閣府「国民経済計算」により作成。 
0.6 1.9 2.7 2.2 2.4 3.30.7
2.5
3.4 4.5
2.1
3.3
1.1
0.6
2.9
3.6
4.9
5.4
0.0
2.4
5.1
9.0
10.3
9.5
12.0
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
10.0
12.0
14.0
2018 201920202021202220232024
図６ 実質政府消費の寄与度分解（部門別）
中央政府 地方政府
社会保障基金 実質 CG
（年度）
（2018年度比、％、％pt）
5.9
3.0 1.80.0 0.2
7.0
4.1
2.5
1.2 0.6
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
8.0
2018 2019 2020 2021 202220232024
一般政府の移転支出（CG以外）
その他の経常移転 現金社会給付
資本移転 補助金
移転支出
（GDP比の対2018年度差、％pt）
（年度）

===== Page 46 =====

4――政府消費等による経済の押上げは今後も続くが、中長期的には民需主導の回復が重要

ここまで見てきたように、日本経済の回復を主導しているのは政府消費である。政府消費の中身を
確認すると、高齢化の進行を背景とした医療・介護給付の増加や、防衛などを始めとする国・地方の
政府の物件費の増加が牽引役となっている。 
今後も、日本の人口動態において高齢化の進行はしばらく止まらないことから、医療・介護給付に
よるＧＤＰの押上げは継続すると見込まれる。防衛についても、政府消費の寄与が今後も実質ベース
で拡大するかは定かでないが、公共投資については防衛装備品の過去の契約分の納入が進むことで今
後に押上げ効果が本格化してくる可能性がある。 また、2026 年は安保三文書の改定が予定されている
ことから、仮に防衛費対ＧＤＰ比の目標が２％超に引き上げられるなら、それによって次期の防衛力
整備計画の期間中に政府消費や公共投資が更に拡大する。こうしたことから、防衛力強化による公共
投資を含めたＧＤＰ押上げも、少なくとも当面は続くと考えられる。高齢化と防衛という要因が日本
のＧＤＰを押し上げる構造はこれからも続きそうである。 
他方、民間における消費や設備投資の需要について、これまでの回復は力強いとは言えず、今後に
ついても中東情勢の影響などから下振れリスクが存在している。しかし、 民需が力強さを欠いたまま、
高齢化要因や政府の物件費の増加を主たる牽引役として拡大する経済は、中長期で見て持続可能性が
あるとは言えない。医療・介護保険の給付費は現役世代の所得から支払われる税・社会保険料により
賄われる部分が大きく、給付と負担のバランスを欠けば家計消費を抑制する。防衛を始めとする各種
の政府サービスについても、原資は少なくとも長期的には税収の裏付け、その背後に民間の経済活動
が生み出す付加価値の裏付けが必要であり、民需が低迷したままで政府消費だけを際限なく拡大でき
るわけではない。 
民間消費・投資の持続的な成長に向け、まずは中東の混乱の早期収束と、一段のインフレの回避が
望まれる。それとともに、物価上昇に負けない賃上げの継続、省力化投資・ＤＸ投資等を通じた生産
性向上、そうした投資や労働移動の円滑化も通じた供給制約の克服などが重要と考える。また、高市
内閣が進めようとしている危機管理投資・成長投資については、政府自身の固定資本形成以外の投資
補助金やその他の移転支出はＧＤＰには直接現れない支出となる（あるいは投資減税もＧＤＰには表

===== Page 47 =====

1 後述するように、 本稿では内閣府 「国民経済計算」 の年次推計のデータを用いて、 コロナ禍からの回復の牽引役である政府
最終消費支出について、増加の内訳を見ていく。 このデータが年度次であるため、 コロナ前との比較をするに当たり、 起点を
2018 年度とした。なお、2019 年度については、消費税率引上げやコロナ禍の影響が含まれることで、実質ＧＤＰは2018 年
度比▲0.9％となっている一方、政府消費は2018 年度比＋2.4％（ＧＤＰへの寄与＋0.5％pt）となっている。 
2 実質化は、 政府最終消費支出のうち政府現実最終消費（政府集合消費支出）と現物社会移転（政府個別消費支出） を分けて
行った。 年次推計では、政府最終消費支出と政府現実最終消費の名目額と実質額が公表されているため、 これを用いて残差と
して現物社会移転の名目額と実質額を算出し、その比として現物社会移転のデフレーターを計算した。現物社会移転には市
場産出の購入と非市場産出があるが、市場産出の購入が性質別項目として表章されているのに対し、非市場産出については
性質別 ・ 目的別の各項目の中に溶け込んでいるため、該当すると思われる項目を個別に抽出した。 具体的には、 市場産出の購
入以外の各性質別項目（中間投入、雇用者報酬等）について、目的別項目のうち「保健」 、 「娯楽・文化・宗教」 、 「教育」 、 「社
会保護」 （ただし、それらの下の細分類のうち「Ｒ＆Ｄ」 、 「その他」等のいくつかの項目を除く）を非市場産出とした。 
3 医療費の増加要因としては、 高齢化要因を含む 「人口要因」 の他に、技術革新などで医療が高度化し、 それとともに高額化
する影響などもあると考えられる。財務省によると、医療費全体の伸びが2000 年以降、 年当たり＋2.1％で、うち人口要因は
＋1.2％であるため、人口要因以外の影響が＋0.9％程度ということになる。 人口要因以外の影響の中で、 高度化に対応するも
のとしては 「新規医薬品等の保険収載」 、 「過去の改定で収載された高額・高度な医療へのシフト」 が挙げられている。 他方、
ＳＮＡで見ると、介護等も含めた現物社会移転のデフレーターは足元で大きくは上昇していない （2024 年度の2018 年度比は
＋1.7％であり、政府現実最終消費デフレーターが＋12.8％であるのと比べても低い）。 
4 １回限り使用される弾薬類については、購入時に公的在庫変動の増加として計上され、使用時に公的在庫変動の減少と政
府最終消費支出の増加が記録される（使用時においては需要項目間の振替になることからＧＤＰ全体には影響しない） 。 
5 図１の公共投資は公的企業設備と公的住宅も含んでおり、図５の一般政府のみの公共投資と範囲の違いがあることに留意。
また、実質化は一般政府の総固定資本形成のデフレーターで行った。 
6 防衛装備品のうち国内機械受注を巡る動向については拙稿「機械受注から見た防衛力強化」 （2026 年４月13 日）も参照。
https://www.nli-research.co.jp/report/detail/id=85208?site=nli 
7 ワクチンの接種費用については、 接種時点で現物社会移転 （市場産出の購入） に計上され、 政府最終消費支出を増加させる。 
8 図２、図３の現物社会移転と若干ながら差が生じるのはほぼ全て地方政府分である。生活保護法や障害者総合支援法等に
基づく医療費負担、 子どもの医療費助成等の地方公共団体単独実施に係る医療費負担など公費負担医療給付分と考えられる。 
9 物件費（2019 年度以前は 「賃金」 を除く）が2022 年度に2018 年度比＋50.3％増加し、 うち委託料の寄与度が＋40.7％pt。 
10 同基金は中央政府内の国立研究開発法人新エネルギー・産業技術総合開発機構（ＮＥＤＯ）に造成されており、ＮＥＤＯ
から企業に支出がなされた段階で一般政府から企業への資本移転として記録される。なお、造成後に2022 年度２次補正で 
3000 億円、2023 年度当初で4564 億円を積み増し、基金の総額は２兆7564 億円となっている。 
11 ここで言う「補助金」に該当するには、①市場生産者の経常費用を賄うために交付される、②財貨・サービスの市場価格
を低下させる、という要件があり、投資支援の補助金については前述の資本移転に分類される。 
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 48 =====

1. 景気の現状判断 DI（季節調整値）は前月差▲1.4 ポイント低下の 40.8 
内閣府が5 月 13 日に公表した景気ウォッチャー調査によると、2026 年 4 月の景気の現状判断DI
（季節調整値） は40.8 となり、前月から▲1.4 ポイント低下した。3 月に前月差▲11.3 ポイントの
急低下となった後、一段と悪化した。 
地域別では、全国 12 地域中、3 地域で上昇、9 地域で低下であった。最も上昇幅が大きかったの
は中国（前月差1.8 ポイント）で、最も低下幅が大きかったのは北陸（同▲6.4 ポイント）であっ
た。 
現状判断DI（季節調整値） の内訳をみると、家計動向関連 （前月差▲1.2 ポイント） 、企業動向関
連（同▲1.6 ポイント）、雇用関連（同▲1.7 ポイント）のすべての DI が低下した。内閣府は基調
判断を「景気は、中東情勢によるマインド面の下押しを背景に、このところ持ち直しの動きに弱さ
がみられる」から「景気は、中東情勢によるマインド面の下押しを中心に、このところ持ち直しの
動きに弱さがみられる。」へと変更した。

2. 中東情勢と物価高騰の影響が幅広い分野に波及 
家計動向関連では、住宅関連（前月差▲7.0 ポイント）、飲食関連 （同▲3.8 ポイント） 、 サービス
関連（同▲1.6 ポイント） 、小売関連（同▲0.2 ポイント）のすべての DI が低下した。住宅関連の
コメントをみると、「物価高騰に加え、 中東情勢の影響もあり、 ますます販売価格は上昇する傾向に
ある。購入が必須の顧客を除き、商談はかなり慎重になっており、販売は更に鈍化し、マンション
在庫が増えている（中国・住宅販売会社） 」 など、価格高騰による購買意欲の低下とマンション在庫
の増加を指摘するコメントがみられた。飲食関連のコメントでは、「引き続き中国からのインバウ
ンドは減少しているものの、その他の国からのインバウンドは良い。ただし、中東情勢の影響によ
る不安感の継続により、 来客数は横ばいである（南関東・高級レストラン）」 など、中国からのイン
バウンド減少を他国・地域からの来客が補っているものの、 来客数全体としては横ばいにとどまっ
40
45
50
55
60
23/01 23/07 24/01 24/07 25/01 25/07 26/01
（資料）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」 （月次）
景気の現状判断DI（季節調整値）
-7.0
-5.0
-3.0
-1.0
1.0
3.0
5.0
23/01 23/07 24/01 24/07 25/01 25/07 26/01
雇用関連
企業動向関連
家計動向関連
現状判断DI（季節調整値）の変動要因
（前月差、ポイント）
（資料）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」
（注）分野別DIの前月差に各ウェイトを乗じて算出
（月次）
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-05-14 
景気ウォッチャー調査 2026 年 4 月 
～中東情勢の 影響が広がり 、現状の景況感はさらに
悪化～

===== Page 49 =====

（資料）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」を基にニッセイ基礎研究所作成

3. 景気の先行き判断 DI（季節調整値）は、前月差 0.7 ポイント上昇の 39.4 
2～3 か月先の景気の先行きに対する判断DI は、前月差0.7 ポイント上昇の 39.4 となった。 先行
き判断 DI の内訳をみると、企業動向関連（同▲0.6 ポイント）のDI は小幅に低下したものの、家
計動向関連（前月差1.1 ポイント） 、雇用関連（同0.3 ポイント）の DI は小幅に上昇した。 
家計動向関連では、「夏の行楽シーズンや夏休み、祭り需要に向けた先行予約は好調である （東
北・都市型ホテル）」や「航空運賃等が 5 月から上昇するようなので、特に夏休みの旅行先を海外
から国内に振り替える客も一部発生するとみており、国内需要はやや増加する（甲信越・観光型旅

1 分析には KH Coder 3（樋口 2020）を使用した 
2 共起ネットワークとは、よく一緒に使われる語同士を、線で結んだネットワークのことである 
影響
悪化
高騰
値上げ
購入
販売
関連
不足
消費 懸念
発生
値上が り
供給
中東
来客数
販売量
客単価
物価上昇
消費者
価格高騰
客
改善
受注
利用
来店
比較
維持
回復
宿泊
中国
イ ン バ ウ ン ド
商材
不変
求人数
Degree:
1
2
3
Frequency:
50
100
150

===== Page 50 =====

景気ウォッチャー調査の 「景気判断理由集 （先行き） 」 のコメントをもとに計量テキスト分析を行
い、共起ネットワークを作成すると、景況感が改善すると判断した回答者のコメントには、ゴール
デンウィーク、エアコン、省エネといった単語が多く含まれていることが読み取れる。エアコンに
関するコメントでは「省エネ基準の改正を控え、エアコンの販売実績が伸びるとみられる（中国・
家電量販店） 」など、2027 年 4 月の省エネ基準改正を前にした駆け込み需要を期待する声がみられ
た。一方、 「中東」 という語は景況感が悪化・不変のいずれの判断をした回答者のコメントにも多く
登場しており、 先行きへの下押しリスクとして幅広く意識されていることがうかがえる。 具体的に
は「中東情勢が不透明で、石油製品関連の価格上昇による更なる物価上昇が懸念される（近畿・窯
業・土石製品製造業） 」 や 「中東情勢次第であるが、 長期化すれば、 特に製造業において減産等が発
生し、 求人数にもマイナスの影響が出そうである （南関東・人材派遣会社） 」 など、 業種・地域を超
えて景気の先行きを左右しうるリスク要因として認識されている。

（資料）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」を基にニッセイ基礎研究所作成

35
40
45
50
55
60
23/01 23/07 24/01 24/07 25/01 25/07 26/01
（資料）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」 （月次）
景気の先行き判断DI（季節調整値）
-12.0
-10.0
-8.0
-6.0
-4.0
-2.0
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
23/01 23/07 24/01 24/07 25/01 25/07 26/01
雇用関連
企業動向関連
家計動向関連
先行き判断DI（季節調整値）の変動要因
（前月差、ポイント）
（資料）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」
（注）分野別DIの前月差に各ウェイトを乗じて算出
（月次）
情勢
悪化 景気
状況
原油
価格
先行き
物価高
石油
物価
製品
資材
影響
値上げ
高騰
懸念
予想
不足
供給
中東
可能性
客
改善
売上
動き
需要
ゴ ー ル デ ン ウ ィ ー ク
国内
エ ア コ ン
省エ ネ
販売
予定
来客数
不変
現状
Degree:
1
2
3
Frequency:
50
100
150

===== Page 51 =====

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

===== Page 52 =====

▲0.5 0.2 0.7 0.4 0.2 0.6
▲0.6
0.3 0.5
(▲2.0) (0.8) (2.6) (1.5) (1.0) (2.6)
(▲2.4)
(1.3) (1.8)
▲1.5
▲1.0
▲0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
2401 2402 2403 2404 2501 2502 2503 2504 2601
（前期比、％）
（年・四半期）
実質ＧＤＰ成長率の推移
民間最終消費支出 民間企業設備 その他民需 公需 外需
（資料）内閣府経済社会総合研究所「四半期別ＧＤＰ速報」
( )内は年率換算値
(注）2504までは当研究所による改定見込値、2601は予測値
予測

１. 5/19 に内閣府から公表される 2026年 1-3月期の実質 GDPは、前期比 0.5％（前期比年率
1.8％）と 2 四半期連続のプラス成長になったと推計される。 
２. 民間消費（前期比 0.2％） 、住宅投資（同0.8％） 、設備投資（同0.2％）が揃って増加する
中、2025 年度補正予算の執行に伴い公的固定資本形成が 3 四半期ぶりに増加し、国内需
要は民間需要、公的需要ともに 2四半期連続で増加した。 
３. 名目 GDPは前期比 0.8％（前期比年率3.2％）と 2 四半期連続の増加となり、実質の伸び
を上回るだろう。GDPデフレーターは前期比 0.3％、前年比 2.9％と予測する。 
４. 2025 年度の実質 GDP は前年比 1.0％（2024 年度は 0.5％）と 2 年連続のプラス成長、名
目 GDPは前年比 4.3％（2024 年度は 3.7％）と 5年連続のプラス成長を予測する。 
５. 2026 年 1-3 月期は、内外需が揃って増加し、2025 年 10-12 月期に続き 0％台半ばから後
半とされる潜在成長率を上回る成長になったとみられる。ただし、3 月以降の中東情勢
の緊迫化を受けて、景気の先行き不透明感は高まっている。現時点では、2026 年 4-6 月
期の実質 GDPは、原油価格上昇や供給制約の影響で、前期比年率0％台前半まで減速す
ると予想している。 
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-04-30

2026 年 1-3 月期の実質 GDP 
～前期比 0.5％（年率 1.8％）を予測～

経済研究部 経済調査部長 斎藤  太郎 
(03)3512-1836  tsaito@nli-research.co.jp

===== Page 53 =====

名目 GDP は前期比 0.8％（前期比年率 3.2％）と 2 四半期連続の増加となり、実質の伸びを上回
るだろう。GDP デフレーターは前期比 0.3％（10-12 月期：同 0.5％）、前年比 2.9％（10-12 月期：
同 3.4％）と予測する。国内需要デフレーターが前期比 0.5％（10-12 月期：同 0.5％）と 21 四半期
連続で上昇するだろう。

この結果、2025 年度の実質 GDP は前年比 1.0％（2024 年度は 0.5％）と 2 年連続のプラス成長、
名目 GDPは前年比 4.3％（2024 年度は 3.7％）と 5 年連続のプラス成長になると予想する。GDPデ
フレーターは前年比 3.2％（2024年度は 3.2％）と 7 年連続のプラスとなるだろう。

2026年 1-3 月期は内外需が揃って増加し、2025年 10-12 月期に続き 0％台半ばから後半とされる
潜在成長率を上回る成長になったとみられる。ただし、3 月以降の中東情勢の緊迫化を受けて、景
気の先行き不透明感は高まっている。現時点では、2026 年 4-6 月期の実質 GDP は、原油価格上昇
や供給制約の影響で、前期比年率 0％台前半まで減速すると予想している。

●主な需要項目の動向 
・民間消費～物価高の影響緩和で緩やかな増加が続く～

民間消費は前期比 0.2％と 4 四半期連続の増加を予測する。 
物価高による下押し圧力は残っているが、ガソリン暫定税率の廃止や電気・都市ガスの支援策の
影響でエネルギーを中心に物価上昇率が鈍化し、実質賃金上昇率がプラスに転じたことが消費を下
支えした。消費者物価（総合）は 2025年 1-3月期の前年比 3.8％をピークに鈍化傾向が続き、2026
年 1-3 月期は同 1.4％（2025年 10-12月期：同 2.7％）となった。

1 4/30 までに公表された経済指標をもとに予測している。 今後公表される経済指標の結果によって予測値を修正する可能
性がある。

===== Page 54 =====

・住宅投資～駆け込み需要の反動一巡で増加が続く～

住宅投資は前期比 0.8％と 2四半期連続の増加を予測する。 
新設住宅着工戸数（季節調整済・年率換算値）は、
建築物省エネ法・建築基準法改正前の駆け込み需要
の反動で、2025 年 1-3 月の 86.7 万戸から 4-6 月期に
62.0万戸へ急減した後、7-9月が 71.9万戸と持ち直し、
その後は概ね 70万戸台半ばで推移している。 
GDP 統計の住宅投資は工事の進捗ベースで  計上
され、着工の動きがやや遅れて反映されるため、7-9
月期の大幅減少の後、10-12 月期、2026年 1-3 月期と
増加した。

・民間設備投資～高水準の企業収益を背景に底堅さを維持～

民間設備投資は前期比 0.2％と 2四半期連続の増加を予測する。 
設備投資の一致指標である投資財出荷指数（除く輸送機械）は 2025 年 10-12 月期の前期比 1.1％
の後、2026 年 1-3 月期は同 0.9％となった。また、機械投資の先行指標である機械受注（船舶・電
力を除く民需）は 2025年 10-12 月期に前期比 6.6％と 2 四半期ぶりに増加した後、2026 年 1、2 月
の平均は 10-12 月期を 7.7％上回っている。 
日銀短観 2026年 3 月調査では、日銀短観 2026年 3 月調査では、2025年度の設備投資計画（含む
ソフトウェア・研究開発投資額、除く土地投資額）が 2025 年 12 月調査から▲1.3％下方修正され、
前年度比 7.8％（全規模・全産業）となったが、2026 年度の当初計画は前年度比 2.7％となり、2025
年度当初計画の前年度比 2.2％（2025年 3月調査）を上回った。 
設備投資は、高水準の企業収益を背景に、人手不足対応の省力化投資、デジタル化に向けた情報
関連投資、Eコマース拡大に伴う建設投資などの案件を軸に回復基調が続いている。

50
60
70
80
90
100
110
2101 2103 2201 2203 2301 2303 2401 2403 2501 2503 2601
消費関連指標の推移
小売業販売額指数（実質）
外食産業売上高（実質）
自動車販売台数
延べ宿泊者数（うち日本人）
（出所）経済産業省、観光庁、日本フードサービス協会、
日本自動車販売協会連合会、全国軽自動車協会連合会
（2019年=100）
（年・四半期）（注）ニッセイ基礎研究所による季節調整値
小売販売額指数は消費者物価（財）、外食産業売上高は消費者物価（一般外食）で実質化
10
20
30
40
50
60
50
60
70
80
90
100
1801 1803 1901 1903 2001 2003 2101 2103 2201 2203 2301 2303 2401 2403 2501 2503 2601
住宅着工戸数(左目盛） 持家（右目盛）
貸家（右目盛） 分譲（右目盛）
新設住宅着工戸数の推移（季調済年率換算、万戸） （季調済年率換算、万戸）
（年・四半期）(資料）国土交通省「建築着工統計」

===== Page 55 =====

0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
3月調査 6月調査 9月調査 12月調査 実績見込み 実績
設備投資計画（全規模・全産業）
2019年度 2021年度 2022年度 2023年度 2024年度
（資料）日本銀行「企業短期経済観測調査」
（注）ソフトウェア・研究開発を含む設備投資額（除く土地投資額）
（前年度比、％）
2025年度
2026年度

・公的固定資本形成～補正予算の効果で増加に転じる～

公的固定資本形成は、2025 年度補正予算の効
果などから前期比 1.6％と 3四半期ぶりの増加を
予測する。 
公共工事の先行指標である公共工事請負金額
は 2026年 1-3 月期に前年比 17.3％（10-12月期：
同 9.6％）と 4 四半期連続で増加し、前期から伸
びが加速した。また、公共工事の進捗を反映す
る公共工事出来高（建設総合統計）は、2025 年
10-12 月期に前年比 1.7％と 7 四半期連続で増加
した後、2026 年 1、2 月の平均は同 5.3％と伸び
を高めている。

・外需～3四半期ぶりのプラス寄与～

外需寄与度は前期比 0.2％（前期比年率 0.7％）と 3四半期ぶりのプラスを予測する。財貨・サー
ビスの輸出が前期比 0.6％、財貨・サービスの輸入が同▲0.4％となるだろう。中国からの訪日客急
減を主因としたインバウンド需要の頭打ちなどからサービス輸出は低調だったが、中国向けが持ち
直すなど、財輸出が底堅い動きとなった。 
2026年 1-3 月期の地域別輸出数量指数を季節調整値（当研究所による試算値）でみると、米国向
けが前期比 0.2％（10-12月期：同 11.0％） 、EU
向けが前期比 1.5％（10-12 月期：同4.2％） 、ア
ジア向けが前期比2.7％（10-12月期 ： 同0.8％） 、
うち中国向けが前期比 2.3％（10-12 月期：同
▲2.4％） 、全体では前期比3.0％（10-12月期：
同 2.4％）となった。米国向けはほぼ横ばいに
とどまったが、10-12 月期の高い伸びの後とし
てはしっかりした動きとなった。また、 2025
▲20%
▲15%
▲10%
▲5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
1901 1903 2001 2003 2101 2103 2201 2203 2301 2303 2401 2403 2501 2503 2601
公共工事請負金額、出来高の推移（前年比）
（資料）国土交通省「建設総合統計」、保証事業会社協会「公共工事前払金保証統計」
（年・四半期）
公共工事出来高
公共工事請負金額
（注）公共工事出来高の2601は26年1、2月の平均
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
1901 1903 2001 2003 2101 2103 2201 2203 2301 2303 2401 2403 2501 2503 2601
地域別輸出数量指数(季節調整値）の推移(2020年=100)
(資料）財務省「貿易統計」 (年・四半期）
米国向け
中国向け
EU向け
全体

===== Page 56 =====

日本・月次ＧＤＰ 予測結果
［月次］ ［四半期］
→実績値による推計 実績見込← →予測
2025/10 2025/11 2025/12 2026/1 2026/2 2026/3 2025/7-9 2025/10-12 2026/1-3
実質ＧＤＰ 590,664 593,038 592,863 596,128 593,447 595,007 590,335 592,188 594,861
前期比年率 ▲2.4% 1.3% 1.8%
前期比 ▲0.1% 0.4% ▲0.0% 0.6% ▲0.4% 0.3% ▲0.6% 0.3% 0.5%
前年同期比 0.7% 0.4% 0.2% 1.9% 0.2% 0.7% 0.6% 0.5% 0.9%
内需（寄与度） 587,646 588,724 590,107 591,213 590,712 589,488 586,348 588,306 589,952
前期比 ▲0.0% 0.2% 0.2% 0.2% ▲0.1% ▲0.2% ▲0.3% 0.3% 0.3%
前年同期比 1.4% 1.0% 1.2% ▲0.5% 1.7% 1.4% 0.7% 1.3% 0.9%
民需（寄与度） 439,030 439,205 438,749 440,574 440,320 439,717 436,907 438,547 439,756
前期比 ▲0.1% 0.0% ▲0.1% 0.3% ▲0.0% ▲0.1% ▲0.3% 0.3% 0.2%
前年同期比 1.4% 0.6% 1.3% 0.1% 1.1% 0.8% 0.6% 1.2% 0.7%
民間消費 310,027 310,897 310,215 311,122 311,070 310,702 309,461 310,380 310,965
前期比 ▲0.0% 0.3% ▲0.2% 0.3% ▲0.0% ▲0.1% 0.5% 0.3% 0.2%
前年同期比 2.5% 1.2% 1.4% 0.6% 1.8% 1.4% 1.5% 1.7% 1.3%
民間住宅投資 22,471 22,199 22,255 21,868 22,286 23,327 21,255 22,308 22,494
前期比 3.1% ▲1.2% 0.3% ▲1.7% 1.9% 4.7% ▲8.0% 5.0% 0.8%
前年同期比 ▲3.4% ▲4.6% ▲4.2% ▲0.8% ▲0.1% ▲7.0% ▲7.9% ▲4.1% ▲2.7%
民間設備投資 106,919 107,884 107,437 109,189 107,170 106,658 106,041 107,414 107,672
前期比 ▲0.1% 0.9% ▲0.4% 1.6% ▲1.8% ▲0.5% ▲0.0% 1.3% 0.2%
前年同期比 2.3% 2.2% 5.4% 0.9% 2.9% 3.7% 0.9% 3.3% 2.5%
民間在庫（寄与度） -308 -1,695 -1,078 -1,525 -127 -890 510 -1,027 -847
前期比 ▲0.1% ▲0.2% 0.1% ▲0.1% 0.2% ▲0.1% ▲0.2% ▲0.3% 0.0%
前年同期比 ▲0.1% ▲0.1% ▲0.1% ▲0.4% ▲0.4% ▲0.4% 0.0% ▲0.1% ▲0.4%
公需（寄与度） 148,609 149,511 151,350 150,632 150,385 149,764 149,451 149,761 150,197
前期比 0.0% 0.2% 0.3% ▲0.1% ▲0.0% ▲0.1% ▲0.0% 0.1% 0.1%
前年同期比 0.1% 0.3% ▲0.1% ▲0.5% 0.6% 0.6% 0.0% 0.1% 0.2%
政府消費 122,139 122,625 123,161 122,968 122,824 122,437 122,215 122,641 122,743
前期比 0.2% 0.4% 0.4% ▲0.2% ▲0.1% ▲0.3% 0.1% 0.3% 0.1%
前年同期比 1.0% 2.2% ▲0.7% ▲2.4% 2.6% 2.7% 0.6% 0.9% 0.9%
公的固定資本形成 26,607 27,023 28,326 27,903 27,800 27,567 27,391 27,319 27,757
前期比 ▲0.4% 1.6% 4.8% ▲1.5% ▲0.4% ▲0.8% ▲1.1% ▲0.3% 1.6%
前年同期比 ▲3.4% ▲2.8% 0.6% 0.0% 1.5% 1.8% ▲1.7% ▲1.8% 1.1%
外需（寄与度） 4,133 5,430 3,871 6,031 3,850 6,634 4,653 4,478 5,505
前期比 ▲0.1% 0.2% ▲0.3% 0.4% ▲0.4% 0.5% ▲0.3% ▲0.0% 0.2%
前年同期比 ▲0.6% ▲0.4% ▲0.9% 2.4% ▲1.4% ▲0.7% 0.0% ▲0.8% 0.0%
財貨・ｻｰﾋﾞｽの輸出 106,345 107,157 105,094 106,881 106,245 107,433 106,223 106,199 106,853
前期比 ▲0.4% 0.8% ▲1.9% 1.7% ▲0.6% 1.1% ▲1.5% ▲0.0% 0.6%
前年同期比 ▲0.8% ▲0.7% ▲0.1% 5.6% ▲4.3% 1.1% 1.2% ▲0.5% 0.6%
財貨・ｻｰﾋﾞｽの輸入 102,212 101,728 101,223 100,850 102,395 100,799 101,569 101,721 101,348
前期比 0.0% ▲0.5% ▲0.5% ▲0.4% 1.5% ▲1.6% ▲0.2% 0.1% ▲0.4%
前年同期比 2.4% 1.7% 5.1% ▲7.7% 4.1% 5.9% 1.2% 3.1% 0.4%

本誌記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本誌は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものでもありません。

## 034_Refinitiv_Lipper_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG
 WEEKLY AGGREGATES

THE WEEKLY AGGREGATES REPORT
The Weekly Aggregates report provides updates on aggregate earnings revisions, growth rates and valuations. The 
numbers in the "Global Datapoints", "U.S. Datapoints" and "Ancillary Data" sections are updated weekly.
This report combines I/B/E/S's unrivaled historical earnings database, in depth coverage of Wall Street analysts' 
bottom-up corporate earnings estimates, and the analytic capabilities of the Proprietary Research group 
and desk-top solutions. 
GLOBAL DATAPOINTS
Exhibit 1. Global Datapoints
Earnings Growth (%)
Region FY 1 FY 2 FY 1 FY 2 FY 1 FY 2
NA United States 27.2 18.3 23.2 19.6 1.72 1.59
NC Canada 35.5 12.3 16.9 15.0 0.95 1.15
EF France 28.1 11.0 14.6 13.2 0.73 0.69
ED Germany 10.9 17.4 15.7 13.4 0.89 0.99
EI Italy 8.7 7.4 13.3 12.4 0.99 1.15
FJ Japan 14.5 12.4 16.0 14.2 1.14 1.20
EX United Kingdom 17.9 9.5 13.4 12.2 0.88 0.91
EA Austria 16.2 10.2 11.0 10.0 0.73 1.73
EB Belgium 7.2 13.3 16.2 14.3 0.87 1.21
SD Denmark -0.1 6.6 15.7 14.7 1.29 1.16
SF Finland 19.9 12.4 18.3 16.3 0.68 0.74
EN Netherlands 22.1 18.3 21.1 17.9 1.57 1.24
EE Spain 11.5 11.2 14.1 12.7 1.12 1.01
SS Sweden 3.7 13.3 18.0 15.9 0.79 0.87
ES Switzerland 11.1 11.1 18.4 16.6 1.39 1.46
AA Australia 7.6 1.6 21.6 21.0 0.49 0.50
FH Hong Kong 11.7 14.1 14.7 12.3 1.09 1.10
FC China 30.3 17.7 17.3 14.7 0.54 0.62
FI India 16.3 16.6 21.4 18.4 0.73 0.77
FS Singapore -3.5 17.0 19.7 16.9 1.89 2.20
FA Taiwan 45.8 23.9 21.6 17.6 3.38 4.68
LA Argentina 193.8 39.3 17.6 15.5 0.50 0.42
LB Brazil 47.5 13.3 10.1 8.9 0.65 0.71
LM Mexico 19.9 10.1 13.4 12.2 0.60 0.59
May 15, 2026
All data sourced from LSEG Workspace, a complete solution for research and analytics. It offers research and estimates, click-through 
fundamentals, transcripts and guidance. LSEG Workspace clients can run fundamental and/or technical screens against a global da taset 
representing more than 100 countries and over 200,000 securities.  Learn more, request a free trial to LSEG Workspace today.
© 2026 LSEG.  All marks herein are used under licence.
The Weekly Aggregates Report provides updates on aggregate earnings revisions, growth rates and valuations.       View all Proprietary 
Research from LSEG subscription channels.
Revisions MomentumValuation

===== Page 2 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG May 15, 2026
WEEKLY AGGREGATES
U.S. DATAPOINTS
Exhibit 2. Bottom-Up Aggregates S&P 500 (.SPX)
S&P 500 1Q2026 2Q2026 3Q2026 4Q2026 CY2026 1Q2027 2Q2027 3Q2027 4Q2027 CY2027
Earnings ($) 74.62 80.09 86.66 89.72 336.14 90.35 94.69 99.61 103.17 387.74
Growth (%) 18.32 20.11 19.09 23.13 23.90 21.07 18.23 14.95 14.99 15.35
P/E 22.3 19.3
Exhibit 3. Bottom-Up Aggregates S&P Industrials (.SPIND)
S&P Industrials 1Q2026 2Q2026 3Q2026 4Q2026 CY2026 1Q2027 2Q2027 3Q2027 4Q2027 CY2027

Earnings ($) 99.53 111.08 120.06 125.54 464.04 124.92 132.33 138.70 145.14 539.92
Growth (%) 18.04 24.39 25.50 26.97 28.46 25.51 19.13 15.53 15.61 16.35
P/E 24.1 20.7
Exhibit 4. Bottom-Up Aggregates S&P Midcap 400 (.IDX)
S&P Midcap 400 1Q2026 2Q2026 3Q2026 4Q2026 CY2026 1Q2027 2Q2027 3Q2027 4Q2027 CY2027
Earnings ($) 47.38 51.58 55.30 59.36 213.69 55.94 61.13 64.01 67.90 247.70
Growth (%) 15.20 15.77 9.28 16.48 15.63 18.07 18.50 15.75 14.39 15.91

P/E 17.2 14.8
Exhibit 5. Bottom-Up Aggregates S&P Smallcap 600 (.SPCY)
S&P Smallcap 600 1Q2026 2Q2026 3Q2026 4Q2026 CY2026 1Q2027 2Q2027 3Q2027 4Q2027 CY2027
Earnings ($) 19.47 25.11 26.40 27.87 99.03 24.91 29.70 31.29 32.60 117.82
Growth (%)
13.43 6.97 12.71 29.27 13.20 27.97 18.3 18.49 16.99 18.97
P/E 16.7 14.1
Exhibit 6. Bottom-Up Aggregates Russell 2000 Index (.RUT)
Russell 2000 Index 1Q2026 2Q2026 3Q2026 4Q2026 CY2026 1Q2027 2Q2027 3Q2027 4Q2027 CY2027

Earnings ($) 21.06 34.94 38.61 39.26 129.80 37.54 49.25 52.89 54.39 186.81
Growth (%) 41.56 92.91 54.86 250.27 151.76 78.24 40.95 37.00 38.56 43.92
P/E 22.1 15.3
ANCILLARY DATA
Exhibit 7. U.S. Ancillary Data
.SPX .SPIND .IDX .SPCY .RUT
7,501.24 11,171.31 3,670.18 1,656.09 2,863.09
355.14 491.97 226.21 105.95 150.78
21.1 22.7 16.2 15.6 19.0
295.17 399.07 195.44 91.74 80.36
25.4 28.0 18.8 18.1 35.6
2.17
3.801
4.48
4.73 4.40 6.16 6.40 5.27
-5.35 1.75 -27.30 -29.96 -14.91

2
Index Level
10-Year T-Bond Yield (%)
52 Week Revisions (Up/Down)
52 Week Forward EPS ($)
52 Week Trailing EPS ($)
52 Week Forward P/E
52 Week Trailing P/E
1-Year T-Bill Yield (%)
TRPR_82222_851
52 Week Earnings Yield (%)
PEIGBY
© 2026 LSEG.  All marks herein are used under licence.

===== Page 3 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG May 15, 2026
WEEKLY AGGREGATES
ITEM DEFINITIONS AND METHODOLOGY
3© 2026 LSEG.  All marks herein are used under licence. TRPR_82222_851
General:
All aggregates are bottom-up aggregates calculated from analysts' consensus forecasts unless otherwise noted. Bottom-up
aggregates are weighted calculations using the I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv share class monitored or the official index weight of
the index-provider. Top-down forecasts are compilations of strategists' estimates. I/B/E/S universe calculations are based on

all companies within a given market monitored by Refinitiv.
Benchmark index calculations, including those for official local market indices, the S&P 500 Index, and the FTSE World Equity
Indices are calculated using official index constituents and weightings. All index composites are representative of current
index constituents. Index constituents and weightings are updated monthly during options expiration (the Thursday before the
third Friday of every month) for every index except the S&P 500, the constituents of which are current as of the date of

calculation.
PEIGBY refers to the Price Earnings Inverse Government Bond Yield ratio, which measures equity valuation with respect to
the inverse-yield on long-term government bonds (now known as the 'Fed' model). All PEIGBY ratios are I/B/E/S universe-
specific except for the US ratio, where it is based on the S&P 500 Index.
Methodology:
For US and selected Canadian aggregates, calendar-year aggregation is performed using the sum of four quarters' estimates

and a quarterly pro-ration is applied to non-December year end companies' quarterly EPS estimates. Outside of the US and
Canada, all company-level data are calendarized prior to aggregation using the Compustat method of calendarization.
Aggregation is performed using the annual consensus EPS estimate and a May roll-back is applied to December year-end
markets. Aggregates for Japan, where most companies report in March, use an August rollback and a November rollback is

used for Australia and New Zealand, where the fiscal year-end for most companies is in June.
All 12-month-forward data for ex-US markets are calculated using a pro-rata weighting to annual EPS forecasts. The
weightings applied are a daily calibration out of 365 days relative to each constituent's individual fiscal year-end and the
current date.
All non-surprise data, including aggregate forecast earnings, forecast growth, and forward-looking valuation calculations are

weighted according to the I/B/E/S share class monitored for I/B/E/S universes or the weightings assigned to each constituent
in a given index. Aggregated earnings calculations are the equivalent of net profit aggregates, as they are derived from the
EPS forecasts aggregated to the net income level by the appropriate share weighting.
Earnings Aggregation:
For 12-month-forward earnings, the 12-month-forward EPS is used in place of the calendarized EPS in the formulas below.

I/B/E/S universe EPS Aggregate = Index EPS Aggregate =
Growth Calculations:
All growth calculations are the weighted year over year growth in earnings for the calendarized fiscal year period. The
formulas below use index shares for index growth calculations.
Calendarized Earnings Growth = 12-month-forward Growth =
Valuation:
All valuation calculations are the weighted-average price-earnings ratio for the fiscal period in question. The formulas below

use index shares for index P/E calculations.
Calendarized P/E Aggregate = 12-month-forward P/E =
Revisions Momentum:
Unless otherwise indicated, analysts' revisions momentum is a simple aggregation of the total number of estimates raised
divided by the total number of estimates lowered. Thus, any revisions ratio less than 1 indicates negative revisions
momentum while a ratio greater than 1 indicates positive revisions momentum, with 1 marking parity.

The Global Aggregates from Refinitiv product contains annual aggregates for universes included in this publication, including
supplemental aggregate data of over 100 items as well as history dating back to 1985 for North America and to 1987 for other
markets. To learn more about this product, contact your Refinitiv sales representative.
FTSE and the FTSE World Equity Indices are owned by FTSE International Limited.




n
1=i
n
1i
shares
EPS  edcalendariz    shares

LevelIndex   *
price   weight
EPS  edcalendariz   weight
n
1=i
n
1i





100  1-
EPS  edcalendariz    shares
EPS  edcalendariz    shares
n
1=i
i-t
n
1i 
















 100  1-
EPS Trailing 12M    shares
EPS 12M    shares
n
1i
n
1i 
























n
1i
n
1i
EPS  12M    shares
price    shares






n
1i
n
1i
EPS  edcalendariz    shares
price    shares

===== Page 4 =====

or an invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or any derivatives related to such securities.
LSEG does not warrant the accuracy of the reports for any particular purpose and expressly disclaims any
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose; nor does LSEG guarantee the accuracy, validity,
timeliness or completeness of any information or data included in these reports for any particular purpose. LSEG
is under no obligation to provide you with any current or corrected information. Neither LSEG nor any of its

affiliates, directors, officers or employees, will be liable or have any responsibility of any kind for any loss or
damage (whether direct, indirect, consequential, or any other damages of any kind even if LSEG was advised of
the possibility thereof) that you incur in connection with, relating to or arising out of these materials or the
analysis, views, recommendations, opinions or information contained therein, or from any other cause relating to

your access to, inability to access, or use of these materials, whether or not the circumstances giving rise to
such cause may have been within the control of LSEG.
The information provided in these materials is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in
any jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would
subject LSEG or its affiliates to any registration requirement within such jurisdiction or country.

===== Page 5 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH 
EARNINGS AGGREGATES

This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate  
earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  
View all Proprietary Research from LSEG subscription channels.   
ANALYST: Tajinder Dhillon, CFA May 15, 2026 
tajinder.dhillon@lseg.com; 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
AGGREGATE ESTIMATES AND REVISIONS 
 26Q1 Y/Y earnings are expected to be 28.3%. Excluding the energy sector, the Y/Y earnings estimate is 29.6%. 
 Of the 452 companies in the S&P 500 that have reported earnings to date for 26Q1, 83.0% have reported earnings 
above analyst estimates. This compares to a long-term average of 67.4% and prior four quarter average of 78.1%. 
 26Q1 Y/Y revenue is expected to be 11.1%. Excluding the energy sector, the growth estimate is 11.6%. 
 78.6% of companies have reported 26Q1 revenue above analyst expectations. This compares to a long-term 
average of 62.7% and an average over the past four quarters of 72.8%. 
 For 26Q2, there have been 44 negative EPS preannouncements issued by S&P 500 corporations compared to 42 
positive EPS preannouncements. By dividing 44 by 42 the N/P ratio is 1.0 for the S&P 500 Index.  
 The forward four-quarter (26Q2– 27Q1) P/E ratio for the S&P 500 is 21.6. 
 During the week of May. 18, 19 S&P 500 companies are expected to report quarterly earnings. 
 Find additional commentary and insight on Lipper Alpha Insight                                                                                                    
SECTION A: EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
Q1 2026: EARNINGS REVISIONS 
EXHIBIT 1A.  S&P 500: Q1 2026 SHARE-WEIGHTED EARNINGS ($B)

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 6 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  2 
There has been an increase in the share-weighted earnings for the S&P 500 since the start of the quarter (to $680B 
from $598.7B). None of the eleven sectors have experienced downward revisions to estimates.

Since Feb. 1, the consumer staples (0.5%) and health care (2.7%) sectors have recorded the highest percentage 
decreases in earnings, while the communication services (53.8%) sector has recorded the highest percentage increase 
in earnings. Overall, share-weighted earnings for the S&P 500 have increased by 13.6% since the start of the quarter.

Since Feb. 1, the consumer staples (0.2B) and real estate (1B) sectors have recorded the highest dollar-level 
decreases in earnings, while the communication services (34B) sector has recorded the highest dollar-level increase in 
earnings. Overall, expected share-weighted earnings for the S&P 500 have increased by 81.3B since the start of the 
quarter.

Q1 2026: EARNINGS SCORECARD

EXHIBIT 2A.  S&P 500: Q1 2026 EARNINGS VS. EXPECTATIONS 
    Surprise Reported Index 
Sector Above % Match % Below % Factor % Total # Total # 
Consumer Discretionary 73.0% 5.4% 21.6% 10.8% 37 48 
Consumer Staples 88.5% 3.8% 7.7% 6.1% 26 36 
Energy 81.0% 4.8% 14.3% 19.0% 21 21 
Financials 84.0% 1.3% 14.7% 6.5% 75 76 
Health Care 89.1% - 10.9% 10.6% 55 59 
Industrials 84.2% 6.6% 9.2% 6.5% 76 79 
Materials 80.8% 7.7% 11.5% 16.7% 26 26 
Real Estate 66.7% 10.0% 23.3% 2.5% 30 31 
Information Technology 98.2% - 1.8% 9.9% 56 73 
Communication Services 63.2% - 36.8% 2.5% 19 20 
Utilities 77.4% 6.5% 16.1% 8.5% 31 31 
S&P 500 83.0% 3.8% 13.3% 8.2% 452 500

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
452 companies in the S&P 500 Index have reported earnings for Q1 2026. Of these companies, 83.0% reported 
earnings above analyst expectations and 13.3% reported earnings below analyst expectations. In a typical quarter 
(since 1994), 67% of companies beat estimates and 20% miss estimates. Over the past four quarters, 78% of 
companies beat the estimates and 17% missed estimates. 
In aggregate, companies are reporting earnings that are 8.2% above estimates, which compares to a long-term (since 
1994) average surprise factor of 4.4% and the average surprise factor over the prior four quarters of 7.1%.

===== Page 7 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  3 
Q1 2026: REVENUE SCORECARD 
EXHIBIT 3A.  S&P 500: Q1 2026 REVENUE VS. EXPECTATIONS 
    Surprise Reported Index 
Sector Above % Match % Below % Factor % Total # Total # 
Consumer Discretionary 68.4% - 31.6% 1.4% 38 48 
Consumer Staples 92.3% - 7.7% 1.1% 26 36 
Energy 71.4% - 28.6% 1.5% 21 21 
Financials 59.5% - 40.5% 2.7% 74 76 
Health Care 83.6% - 16.4% 1.2% 55 59 
Industrials 85.5% - 14.5% 2.8% 76 79 
Materials 88.5% - 11.5% 3.6% 26 26 
Real Estate 77.4% - 22.6% 2.3% 31 31 
Information Technology 91.1% - 8.9% 2.8% 56 73 
Communication Services 84.2% - 15.8% 1.7% 19 20 
Utilities 71.0% - 29.0% 6.7% 31 31 
S&P 500 78.6% - 21.4% 2.1% 453 500

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
453 companies in the S&P 500 Index have reported revenue for Q1 2026. Of these companies, 78.6% reported 
revenue above analyst expectations and 21.4% reported revenue below analyst expectations. In a typical quarter 
(since 2002), 63% of companies beat estimates and 37% miss estimates. Over the past four quarters, 73% of 
companies beat the estimates and 27% missed estimates. 
In aggregate, companies are reporting revenues that are 2.1% above estimates, which compares to a long-term (since 
2002) average surprise factor of 1.3% and the average surprise factor over the prior four quarters of 1.9%.

===== Page 8 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  4 
Q1 2026: EARNINGS GROWTH RATES 
EXHIBIT 4A.  S&P 500: Q1 2026 EARNINGS GROWTH 
 Earnings $B Earnings $B Growth $B Growth % 
Sector 26Q1 25Q1 26Q1 26Q1 
Consumer Discretionary 55.4 39.8 15.6 39.3% 
Consumer Staples 30.0 28.0 2.0 7.0% 
Energy 23.9 24.1 -0.2 -0.8% 
Financials 122.3 98.1 24.2 24.6% 
Health Care 69.9 72.4 -2.5 -3.4% 
Industrials 43.4 39.5 3.9 9.9% 
Materials 13.0 9.2 3.8 40.8% 
Real Estate 14.0 12.2 1.9 15.2% 
Information Technology 190.0 124.4 65.7 52.8% 
Communication Services 97.1 64.4 32.7 50.8% 
Utilities 20.9 18.1 2.8 15.7% 
S&P 500 680.0 530.2 149.9 28.3%

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
The estimated earnings growth rate for the S&P 500 for 26Q1 is 28.3%. If the energy sector is excluded, the growth 
rate improves to 29.6%. The S&P 500 expects to see share-weighted earnings of $680B in 26Q1, compared to share-
weighted earnings of $530.2B (based on the year-ago earnings of the current 502 constituents) in 25Q1. 
9 of the 11 sectors in the index expect to see an improvement in earnings relative to 25Q1. The Information 
Technology and Communication Services sectors have the highest earnings growth rates for the quarter, while the 
Health Care sector has the weakest anticipated growth compared to 25Q1. 
The Information Technology sector has the highest earnings growth rate (52.8%) of any sector. It is expected to earn 
$190B in 26Q1, compared to earnings of $124.4B in 25Q1. 12 of the 12 sub-industries in the sector are anticipated to 
see higher earnings than a year ago. The Semiconductors (110.3%) and Electronic Components (54.7%) sub-
industries have the highest earnings growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, the growth rate declines 
to 27.4% 
The Communication Services sector has the second highest earnings growth rate (50.8%) of any sector. It is expected 
to earn $97.1B in 26Q1, compared to earnings of $64.4B in 25Q1. 5 of the 9 sub-industries in the sector are 
anticipated to see higher earnings than a year ago. The Interactive Media & Services (75.6%) and Publishing (23.5%) 
sub-industries have the highest earnings growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, the growth rate 
declines to -1.3%. 
The Health Care sector has the lowest earnings growth rate (-3.4%) of any sector. It is expected to earn $69.9B in 
26Q1, compared to earnings of $72.4B in 25Q1. 1 of the 10 sub-industries in the sector are anticipated to see lower 
earnings than a year ago. The Pharmaceuticals (-24%) and Managed Health Care (1.9%) sub-industries have the 
lowest earnings growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, the growth rate improves to 9.2%.

===== Page 9 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  5 
Q2 2026: EARNINGS GROWTH RATES 
EXHIBIT 5A.  S&P 500: Q2 2026 EARNINGS GROWTH 
 Earnings $B Earnings $B Growth $B Growth % 
Sector 26Q2 25Q2 26Q2 26Q2 
Consumer Discretionary 50.9 48.2 2.7 5.6% 
Consumer Staples 32.8 31.2 1.6 5.1% 
Energy 47.7 23.2 24.5 105.3% 
Financials 114.8 108.0 6.8 6.3% 
Health Care 64.9 70.8 -5.9 -8.3% 
Industrials 48.8 44.5 4.3 9.7% 
Materials 17.6 13.3 4.2 31.7% 
Real Estate 14.2 13.3 0.8 6.3% 
Information Technology 206.5 132.3 74.2 56.1% 
Communication Services 69.7 64.4 5.3 8.3% 
Utilities 15.6 14.0 1.6 11.7% 
S&P 500 683.4 563.2 120.3 21.4%

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
The estimated earnings growth rate for the S&P 500 for 26Q2 is 21.4%. If the energy sector is excluded, the growth 
rate declines to 17.7%. The S&P 500 expects to see share-weighted earnings of $683.4B in 26Q2, compared to share-
weighted earnings of $563.2B (based on the year-ago earnings of the current 502 constituents) in 25Q2. 
10 of the 11 sectors in the index expect to see an improvement in earnings relative to 25Q2. The Energy and 
Information Technology sectors have the highest earnings growth rates for the quarter, while the Health Care sector 
has the weakest anticipated growth compared to 25Q2. 
The Energy sector has the highest earnings growth rate (105.3%) of any sector. It is expected to earn $47.7B in 26Q2, 
compared to earnings of $23.2B in 25Q2. 4 of the 5 sub-industries in the sector are anticipated to see higher earnings 
than a year ago. The Oil & Gas Refining & Marketing (199.1%) and Integrated Oil & Gas (138.9%) sub-industries have 
the highest earnings growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, the growth rate declines to 44.5%. 
The Information Technology sector has the second highest earnings growth rate (56.1%) of any sector. It is expected 
to earn $206.5B in 26Q2, compared to earnings of $132.3B in 25Q2. 12 of the 12 sub-industries in the sector are 
anticipated to see higher earnings than a year ago. The Semiconductors (123%) and Technology Hardware, Storage & 
Peripherals (40.6%) sub-industries have the highest earnings growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, 
the growth rate declines to 17%. 
The Health Care sector has the lowest earnings growth rate (-8.3%) of any sector. It is expected to earn $64.9B in 
26Q2, compared to earnings of $70.8B in 25Q2. 1 of the 10 sub-industries in the sector are anticipated to see lower 
earnings than a year ago. The Biotechnology (-73.4%) and Health Care  Services (4%) sub-industries have the lowest 
earnings growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, the growth rate improves to 7.7%.

===== Page 10 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  6 
REVENUE GROWTH RATES 
EXHIBIT 6A.  S&P 500: Q1 2026 REVENUE GROWTH 
 Revenue $B Revenue $B Growth $B Growth % 
Sector 26Q1 25Q1 26Q1 26Q1 
Consumer Discretionary 497.2 455.1 42.1 9.3% 
Consumer Staples 446.6 417.7 28.9 6.9% 
Energy 316.2 303.1 13.1 4.3% 
Financials 563.3 514.0 49.3 9.6% 
Health Care 898.4 839.3 59.1 7.0% 
Industrials 427.6 391.9 35.6 9.1% 
Materials 122.4 110.4 11.9 10.8% 
Real Estate 45.3 40.6 4.8 11.7% 
Information Technology 619.0 480.7 138.3 28.8% 
Communication Services 329.1 289.7 39.4 13.6% 
Utilities 137.6 121.0 16.6 13.7% 
S&P 500 4,402.7 3,963.6 439.1 11.1%

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
The estimated revenue growth rate for the S&P 500 for 26Q1 is 11.1%. If the energy sector is excluded, the growth rate improves to 11.6%. The 
S&P 500 expects to see revenue of $4402.7B in 26Q1, compared to revenue of $3963.6B (based on the year-ago earnings of the current 502 
constituents) in 25Q1. 
11 of the 11 sectors anticipate revenue growth for the quarter. The Information Technology sector has the highest revenue growth rate for the 
quarter, while the Energy sector has the weakest anticipated growth compared to 25Q1. 
The Information Technology sector has the highest revenue growth rate (28.8%) of any sector. It is expected to earn $619B in 26Q1, compared to 
revenue of $480.7B in 25Q1. 12 of the 12 sub-industries in the sector are anticipated to see higher revenue than a year ago. The Semiconductors 
(57.3%) and Electronic Components (38.7%) sub-industries have the highest revenue growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, the 
growth rate declines to 19.6%. 
The Energy sector has the lowest revenue growth rate (4.3%) of any sector. It is expected to earn $316.2B in 26Q1, compared to revenue of 
$303.1B in 25Q1. 0 of the 5 sub-industries in the sector are anticipated to see lower revenue than a year ago. The Integrated Oil & Gas (1.3%) and 
Oil & Gas Equipment & Services (1.8%) sub-industries have the lowest revenue growth in the sector. If these sub-industries are removed, the growth 
rate improves to 7.3%.

EXHIBIT 7A.  S&P 500: Q2 2026 REVENUE GROWTH 
 Revenue $B Revenue $B Growth $B Growth % 
Sector 26Q2 25Q2 26Q2 26Q2 
Consumer Discretionary 544.3 506.9 37.4 7.4% 
Consumer Staples 458.8 429.9 29.0 6.7% 
Energy 368.1 301.3 66.8 22.2% 
Financials 558.8 524.3 34.5 6.6% 
Health Care 924.9 884.2 40.8 4.6% 
Industrials 454.9 421.1 33.8 8.0% 
Materials 135.8 125.9 9.9 7.9% 
Real Estate 46.1 42.2 3.9 9.2% 
Information Technology 657.3 506.7 150.6 29.7% 
Communication Services 340.6 304.1 36.5 12.0% 
Utilities 115.6 106.6 9.0 8.4% 
S&P 500 4,605.3 4,153.2 452.2 10.9% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 11 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  7 
AGGREGATE ESTIMATES AND REVISIONS 
Note: The estimate revision numbers below are an aggregate of the total number of earnings estimate revisions for the 
Fiscal Year 1 period for all companies in the United States over the previous seven days. Up revisions represent the 
total number of estimates for Fiscal Year 1 submitted in the past seven days that are higher than the previous 
estimates for Fiscal Year 1. Down revisions represent the total number of estimates for Fiscal Year 1 submitted in the 
past seven days of that are lower than the previous estimates for Fiscal Year 1.  
EXHIBIT 8A.  ESTIMATE REVISIONS – S&P 500 
 Total Up Down 
Week Ending Revisions Revisions % Revisions % 
24-Apr-26 1,839 1,158 63% 681 37% 
01-May-26 2,480 1,688 68% 792 32% 
08-May-26 2,152 1,587 74% 565 26% 
15-May-26 1,085 750 69% 335 31% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

EXHIBIT 9A.  S&P 500: EARNINGS ESTIMATE REVISION TREND

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 12 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  8 
EXHIBIT 10A.  ESTIMATE REVISIONS – ALL U.S. COMPANIES 
 Total Up Down 
Week Ending Revisions Revisions % Revisions % 
24-Apr-26 3,203 1,865 58% 1,338 42% 
01-May-26 4,724 3,075 65% 1,649 35% 
08-May-26 5,796 3,721 64% 2,075 36% 
15-May-26 4,012 2,311 58% 1,701 42% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

EXHIBIT 11A.  ALL U.S. COMPANIES: EARNINGS ESTIMATE REVISION TREND

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 13 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  9 
EXHIBIT 12A.  S&P 500: WEEKLY EARNINGS ESTIMATE REVISIONS BY SECTOR

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
EXHIBIT 13A.  ALL U.S. COMPANIES: WEEKLY EARNINGS ESTIMATE REVISIONS BY SECTOR

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 14 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  10 
Q2 2026: EARNINGS GUIDANCE 
EXHIBIT 14A.  S&P 500 PREANNOUNCEMENTS  
 Q2 2026 Q2 2025 Q1 2026 
Type Total (#) Total (%) Total (#) Total (%) Total (#) Total (%) 
Positive 42 43% 32 36% 42 49% 
In-Line 11 11% 7 8% 8 9% 
Negative 44 45% 50 56% 36 42%

Total 97   89   86

N/P Ratio 1.0   1.6   0.9

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
Q2 2026 – Q1 2027: FORWARD FOUR-QUARTER P/E RATIO 
EXHIBIT 15A.  S&P 500: FORWARD FOUR-QUARTER P/E RATIO 
 Price EPS P/E Ratio 
CY 2026 7,501.24 336.14 22.3 
Forward 4 Quarter 7,501.24 346.82 21.6 
CY 2027 7,501.24 387.74 19.3

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S  
S&P 500 Y/Y EARNINGS AND REVENUE GROWTH SUMMARY  
EXHIBIT 16A.  S&P 500 Y/Y GROWTH RATES  
  25Q3 25Q4 26Q1 26Q2 26Q3 26Q4 27Q1 27Q2 2025 2026 2027 
Revenue  8.3% 9.2% 11.1% 10.9% 9.6% 9.2% 8.0% 6.8% 7.2% 10.0% 7.2% 
Earnings  14.9% 14.1% 28.3% 21.4% 24.3% 21.7 % 13.4% 18.4% 14.0% 23.8% 15.4%

Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
EARNINGS CALENDAR 
EXHIBIT 17A.  NUMBER OF COMPANIES REPORTING Q1 2026 EARNINGS  
 Reported Report Report Report 
Q1 2026 To Date This Week Next Week Remaining 
Dow 30 26 3 1 0 
S&P 500 452 19 10 19

Source: LSEG Workspace

===== Page 15 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  11
STARMINE EARNINGS SURPRISE FORECAST
Looking forward at quarterly performance, we use StarMine’s SmartEstimate® from LSEG to determine which
companies in the S&P 500 are better poised to beat and miss earnings estimates. The SmartEstimate® is a weighted
average of analyst estimates, with more weight given to more recent estimates and more accurate analysts. Our

studies have shown that when the SmartEstimate® differs significantly from the consensus (I/B/E/S mean estimate),
the Predicted Surprise accurately predicts the direction of earnings surprises or further revisions 70% of the time.
When a significant Predicted Surprise for revenue is also present for the period, the accuracy improves to 78%.
StarMine ARM from LSEG is an analyst revisions stock ranking model, designed to predict future changes in analyst

sentiment. ARM incorporates more accurate earnings estimates through the SmartEstimate prediction service. ARM
region rankings scores companies by region on a scale of 1 to 100 where 100 represents the most bullish sentiment.
Over the next two weeks, 29 S&P 500 companies are expected to report earnings. Of these companies, three positive
surprises and zero negative surprises are expected from S&P 500 companies reporting quarterly results.
EXHIBIT 18A.  S&P 500: POSITIVE PREDICTED SURPRISES FOR THE NEXT TWO WEEKS

Company RIC
Report
Date Sector
Earnings
Type
Smart
Estimate Mean
Predicted
Surprise %
ARM
Region
Rank
Target Corp TGT.N 20-May Consumer
Staples EPS 1.50 1.43 4.5 86
Deckers Outdoor Corp DECK.N 21-May Consumer
Discretionary EPS 0.86 0.83 3.1 73
Take-Two Interactive Software
Inc TTWO.OQ 21-May Communication
Services EPS 0.58 0.57 2.1 67
Sources: LSEG Workspace, LSEG StarMine

===== Page 16 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  12 
EXHIBIT 19A. S&P 500: NEGATIVE PREDICTED SURPRISES FOR THE NEXT TWO WEEKS 
Company RIC 
Report 
Date Sector 
Earnings 
Type 
Smart 
Estimate Mean 
Predicted 
Surprise % 
ARM 
Region 
Rank

Sources: LSEG Workspace, LSEG StarMine

===== Page 17 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  13 
SECTION B: EARNINGS CALENDAR

EARNINGS CALENDAR BY SECTOR 
EXHIBIT 1B.  NUMBER OF S&P 500 COMPANIES EXPECTED TO REPORT NEXT WEEK BY SECTOR 
Sector 18-May 19-May 20-May 21-May 22-May Total # Reported # of Cos 
Consumer Discretionary - 1 4 3 - 8 37 48 
Consumer Staples - - 1 1 - 2 26 36 
Energy - - - - - - 21 21 
Financials - - - - - - 75 76 
Health Care - - - - - - 55 59 
Industrials - - 1 2 - 3 76 79 
Materials - - - - - - 26 26 
Real Estate - - - - - - 30 31 
Information Technology - 1 3 1 - 5 56 73 
Communication Services - - - 1 - 1 19 20 
Utilities - - - - - - 31 31 
Total - 2 9 8 - 19 452 500 
Source: LSEG Workspace

===== Page 18 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  14 
MONDAY: MAY 18 
EXHIBIT 2B.  MONDAY EARNINGS CALENDAR 
Date Ticker Company Qtr Est Yr Ago % Dif Time

Source: LSEG Workspace, LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 19 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  15
TUESDAY: MAY 19
EXHIBIT 3B.  TUESDAY EARNINGS CALENDAR
Date Ticker Company Qtr Est Yr Ago % Dif Time
19-May-26 HD.N            HOME DEPOT INC                   Q1-Apr.26 3.41 3.56 -4.2 8:30 AM
Source: LSEG Workspace, LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 20 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  16
WEDNESDAY: MAY 20
EXHIBIT 4B.  WEDNESDAY EARNINGS CALENDAR
Date Ticker Company Qtr Est Yr Ago % Dif Time
20-May-26 ADI.OQ          ANALOG DEVICES INC               Q2-Apr.26 2.90 1.85 57.0 7:00 AM
20-May-26 WSM.N          WILLIAMS-SONOMA INC              Q1-Apr.26 1.81 1.85 -2.1 8:00 AM

20-May-26 HAS.OQ         HASBRO INC                       Q1-Mar.26 1.13 1.04 9.1 8:30 AM
20-May-26 LOW.N           LOWE'S COMPANIES INC             Q1-Apr.26 2.97 2.92 1.8 8:30 AM
20-May-26 TGT.N           TARGET CORP                      Q1-Apr.26 1.43 1.30 9.6 8:30 AM
20-May-26 TJX.N           TJX COMPANIES INC                Q1-Apr.26 1.01 0.92 10.0 8:30 AM
20-May-26 INTU.OQ        INTUIT INC                       Q3-Apr.26 12.57 11.65 7.9 4:00 PM

20-May-26 NDSN.OQ      NORDSON CORP                     Q2-Apr.26 2.82 2.42 16.5 4:00 PM
20-May-26 NVDA.OQ      NVIDIA CORP                      Q1-Apr.26 1.76 0.96 82.9 4:00 PM
Source: LSEG Workspace, LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 21 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  17
THURSDAY: MAY 21
EXHIBIT 5B.  THURSDAY EARNINGS CALENDAR
Date Ticker Company Qtr Est Yr Ago % Dif Time
21-May-26 WMT.OQ       WALMART INC                      Q1-Apr.26 0.66 0.61 7.6 7:00 AM
21-May-26 DE.N            DEERE & CO                       Q2-Apr.26 5.70 6.64 -14.1 8:30 AM

21-May-26 RL.N            RALPH LAUREN CORP                Q4-Mar.26 2.53 2.27 11.4 8:30 AM
21-May-26 CPRT.OQ      COPART INC                       Q3-Apr.26 0.41 0.42 -3.3 4:00 PM
21-May-26 DECK.N         DECKERS OUTDOOR CORP             Q4-Mar.26 0.83 1.00 -17.0 4:00 PM
21-May-26 ROST.OQ      ROSS STORES INC                  Q1-Apr.26 1.69 1.47 14.6 4:00 PM
21-May-26 TTWO.OQ     TAKE-TWO INTERACTIVE SOFTWARE IN Q4-Mar.26 0.57 1.09 -48.1 4:00 PM

21-May-26 WDAY.OQ     WORKDAY INC                      Q1-Apr.26 2.51 2.23 12.5 7:00 PM
Source: LSEG Workspace, LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 22 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  18 
FRIDAY: MAY 22 
EXHIBIT 6B.  FRIDAY EARNINGS CALENDAR 
Date Ticker Company Qtr Est Yr Ago % Dif Time

Source: LSEG Workspace, LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 23 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  19 
SECTION C: EARNINGS DATA TABLES

EXHIBIT 1C.  S&P 500: Q1 2026 EARNINGS SCORECARD   
Sector Above Match Below Surprise Reported Index 
Consumer Discretionary 73.0% 5.4% 21.6% 10.8% 37 48 
Consumer Staples 88.5% 3.8% 7.7% 6.1% 26 36 
Energy 81.0% 4.8% 14.3% 19.0% 21 21 
Financials 84.0% 1.3% 14.7% 6.5% 75 76 
Health Care 89.1% - 10.9% 10.6% 55 59 
Industrials 84.2% 6.6% 9.2% 6.5% 76 79 
Materials 80.8% 7.7% 11.5% 16.7% 26 26 
Real Estate 66.7% 10.0% 23.3% 2.5% 30 31 
Information Technology 98.2% - 1.8% 9.9% 56 73 
Communication Services 63.2% - 36.8% 2.5% 19 20 
Utilities 77.4% 6.5% 16.1% 8.5% 31 31 
S&P 500 83.0% 3.8% 13.3% 8.2% 452 500 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
EXHIBIT 2C.  S&P 500: Q1 2026 EARNINGS GROWTH   
Sector Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul 1 Apr 
Consumer Discretionary 39.3% 1.9% 6.3% 9.7% 9.5% 21.0% 
Consumer Staples 7.0% 1.9%  6.6% 7.7% 7.3% 10.2% 
Energy -0.8% 5.5% 1.3% 6.2% 5.8% 23.8% 
Financials 24.6% 17.8% 16.7% 14.8% 12.6% 18.3% 
Health Care -3.4% -8.9% 5.5% 5.0% 6.7% 12.5% 
Industrials 9.9% 4.9% 7.6% 11.2% 12.0% 21.0% 
Materials 40.8% 21.6% 23.3% 16.3% 19.2% 31.3% 
Real Estate 15.2% 12.6% 13.1% 14.3% 15.6% 9.6% 
Information Technology 52.8% 46.3% 35.8% 25.7% 20.7% 21.5% 
Communication Services 50.8% -2.4% -2.7% -1.2% -3.6% 14.9% 
Utilities 15.7% 6.6% 8.8% 6.8% 7.7% 6.4% 
S&P 500 28.3% 14.4% 14.4% 12.4% 10.9% 17.8% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
EXHIBIT 3C.  S&P 500: Q2 2026 EARNINGS GROWTH   
Sector Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul  
Consumer Discretionary 5.6% 7.0% 8.8% 9.4% 14.8%  
Consumer Staples 5.1% 6. 7% 7.0% 7.7% 9.3%  
Energy 105.3% 32.8% 11.6% 20.4% 28.1%  
Financials 6.3% 7.6% 7.7% 6.4% 14.0%  
Health Care -8.3% 5.8% 7.8% 7.9% 12.3%  
Industrials 9.7% 12.3% 15.1% 17.4% 18.2%  
Materials 31.7% 25.8% 18.6% 14.1% 16.7%  
Real Estate 6.3% 6.0% 6.3% 7.4% 6.7%  
Information Technology 56.1% 50.2% 35.5% 24.0% 22.8%  
Communication Services 8.3%  7.6% 6.0% 6.2% 13.2%  
Utilities 11.7% 12.3% 11.8% 10.6% 13.4%  
S&P 500 21.4% 19.2% 15.2% 12.8% 16.4%  
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 24 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  20
EXHIBIT 4C.  S&P 500: Q3 2026 EARNINGS GROWTH
Sector Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct
Consumer Discretionary 3.5% 6.4% 7.2% 15.3%
Consumer Staples 6.9% 7.8% 6.7% 9.4%
Energy 68.8% 18.0% 6.9% 21.3%
Financials 2.8% 3.5% 3.2% 11.9%
Health Care 8.9% 10.5% 9.5% 13.1%
Industrials 15.5% 16.3% 16.1% 22.7%

Materials 41.5% 29.8% 18.8% 16.6%
Real Estate 3.6% 3.7% 3.7% 8.6%
Information Technology 48.6% 44.1% 28.5% 22.3%
Communication Services 51.2% 49.9% 31.7% 14.2%
Utilities 6.7% 7.5% 5.6% 5.4%
S&P 500 24.3% 21.3% 15.1% 16.1%
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S
EXHIBIT 5C.  S&P 500: Q4 2026 EARNINGS GROWTH
Sector Today 1 Apr 1 Jan
Consumer Discretionary 15.1% 18.6% 20.0%
Consumer Staples 7.5% 8.5% 8.6%
Energy 61.6% 20.4% 11.8%
Financials 8.9% 9.8% 11.9%
Health Care 15.3% 17.8% 16.3%

Industrials 4.0% 4.6% 20.5%
Materials 41.1% 30.2% 24.7%
Real Estate 4.4% 5.3% 6.9%
Information Technology 40.0% 36.3% 26.5%
Communication Services 10.3% 10.1% 15.0%
Utilities 18.6% 18.1% 16.7%
S&P 500 21.7% 19.6% 18.3%
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S
EXHIBIT 6C.  S&P 500: Q1 2027 EARNINGS GROWTH
Sector Today 1 Apr
Consumer Discretionary -5.0% 21.1%
Consumer Staples 7.9% 10.3%
Energy 43.3% 15.8%
Financials 6.1% 10.5%
Health Care 19.7% 24.3%
Industrials 18.1% 20.4%

Materials 18.4% 28.7%
Real Estate 4.9% 6.7%
Information Technology 36.0% 35.7%
Communication Services -20.1% 16.6%
Utilities 0.8% 5.9%
S&P 500 13.4% 21.9%
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 25 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  21 
EXHIBIT 7C.  S&P 500: CY 2026 EARNINGS GROWTH  
Sector Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul 1 Apr 
Consumer Discretionary 14.1% 9.4% 11.4% 13.0% 15.2% 16.5% 
Consumer Staples 6.7% 6.5%  7.3% 8.1% 7.9% 8.4% 
Energy 55.8% 18.1% 7.8% 16.3% 19.1% 19.3% 
Financials 11.9% 10.5% 9.5% 11.5% 13.2% 13.4% 
Health Care 2.7% 5.8% 9.2% 9.8% 10.7% 10.3% 
Industrials 10.3% 9.9% 15.6% 17.2% 16.3% 16.5% 
Materials 39.0% 28.3% 20.9% 17.3% 16.5% 18.2% 
Real Estate 6.7% 6.1% 7.7% 9.7% 9.1% 9.1% 
Information Technology 48.3% 43.3% 30.8% 22.1% 18.7% 17.7% 
Communication Services 27.7% 13.6% 10.5% 7.9% 9.5% 14.3% 
Utilities 10.9% 10.8% 9.4% 9.1% 8.3% 8.0% 
S&P 500 23.8% 19.0% 15.6% 14.1% 14.0% 14.5% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S 
EXHIBIT 8C.  S&P 500: CY 2027 EARNINGS GROWTH 
Sector Today 1 Apr     
Consumer Discretionary 13.8% 17.2%     
Consumer Staples 7.6% 8.1%     
Energy -5.5% 7.8%     
Financials 10.7% 11.3%     
Health Care 19.3% 14.3%     
Industrials 19.0% 17.5%     
Materials 10.7% 13.9%     
Real Estate 7.5% 7.3%     
Information Technology 25.8% 24.4%     
Communication Services 6.2% 15.2%     
Utilities 9.6% 9.4%     
S&P 500 15.4% 16.6%     
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

EXHIBIT 9C.  S&P 500:  BOTTOMS-UP EPS ACTUALS AND ESTIMATES  
Year Q1 Q4 Q4 Q4 CY 
 2012 25.60 25.84 26.00 26.32 103.80 
 2013 26.74 27.40 27.63 28.62 109.68 
 2014 28.18 30.07 30.04 30.54 118.78 
 2015 28.60 30.09 29.99 29.52 117.46 
 2016 26.96 29.61 31.21 31.30 118.10 
 2017 30.90 32.58 33.45 36.02 132.00 
 2018 38.07 41.00 42.66 41.18 161.93 
 2019 39.15 41.31 42.14 41.98 162.93 
 2020 33.13 27.98 38.69 42.58 139.72 
 2021 49.13 52.58 53.72 53.95 208.12 
 2022 54.80 57.62 56.02 53.15 218.09 
 2023 53.08 54.29 58.41 57.16 221.36 
 2024 56.56 60.40 63.21 65.00 242.73 
 2025 63.07 66.68 72.77 72.87 271.29 
 2026 74.62 80.09 86.66 89.72 336.14 
 2027 90.35 94.69 99.62 103.17 387.74 
 2028         435.96 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 26 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026 
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS 
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  22 
EXHIBIT 10C.  S&P 500: ACTUAL EARNINGS GROWTH RATES 
Sector 25Q4 25Q3 25Q2 25Q1 24Q4 
Consumer Discretionary 0.1% 9.7% 7.3% 10.0% 28.5% 
Consumer Staples 4.5% 1.6% 1.4% -5.4% 1.5% 
Energy 3.6% -1.5% -18.4% -16.5% -29.3% 
Financials 9.5% 25.0% 14.2% 5.4% 35.1% 
Health Care 1.5% 5.2% 8.9% 46.6% 14.3% 
Industrials 17.6% 23.7% 4.5% 11.2% 8.0% 
Materials 13.0% 20.2% -1.5% 1.0% 2.0% 
Real Estate 2.0% 22.8% 2.0% -7.0% 15.3% 
Information Technology 34.1% 30.8% 25.0% 18.1% 19.8% 
Communication Services 13.3% -6.6% 52.4% 31.1% 31.5% 
Utilities -0.7% 3.7% -1.5% 6.1% 12.5% 
S&P 500 14.1% 14.9% 13.8% 13.7% 17.1% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

EXHIBIT 11C.  S&P 500: ACTUAL VS. ESTIMATE (ABOVE/MATCH/BELOW) 
 25Q4 25Q3 25Q2 25Q1 24Q4 
Above 72.7% 83.1% 80.1% 76.3% 73.5% 
Match 4.8% 4.0% 4.6% 4.8% 7.8% 
Below 22.5% 12.9% 15.3% 18.9% 18.7% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

EXHIBIT 12C.  S&P 500: ACTUAL VS. ESTIMATE (AGGREGATE DIFFERENCE) 
 25Q4 25Q3 25Q2 25Q1 24Q4 
Surprise Factor 4.8% 9.4% 7.8% 6.2% 6.9% 
Source: LSEG I/B/E/S

===== Page 27 =====

invitation to make an offer, to buy or sell any securities or any derivatives related to such securities.
LSEG does not warrant the accuracy of the reports for any particular purpose and expressly disclaims any warranties
of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose; nor does LSEG guarantee the accuracy, validity, timeliness or
completeness of any information or data included in these reports for any particular purpose. LSEG is under no

obligation to provide you with any current or corrected information.  Neither LSEG nor any of its affiliates, directors,
officers or employees, will be liable or have any responsibility of any kind for any loss or damage (whether direct,
indirect, consequential, or any other damages of any kind even if LSEG was advised of the possibility thereof) that you
incur in connection with, relating to or arising out of these materials or the analysis, views, recommendations, opinions

or information contained therein, or from any other cause relating to your access to, inability to access, or use of these
materials, whether or not the circumstances giving rise to such cause may have been within the control of LSEG.
The information provided in these materials is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to law or regulation or which would subject

The service does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell securities of any kind and LSEG has not undertaken
any liability or obligation relating to the purchase or sale of any securities for or by you.
The service is furnished to you on an “as is” basis with all faults and defects contained therein. LSEG does not make
any representations or warranties either express or implied, including without limitation, any implied warranty of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use, with respect to any aspect of the service. LSEG does not

make any warranties that the service will be uninterrupted, timely, complete, and accurate or error free, or the results to
be obtained from use of the service. Use of the service is at your sole risk and LSEG shall not have any responsibility
or liability for any errors or omissions in, or resulting from the use of, the services or the software product, any decision
made or action taken by you in reliance upon the services, any failures or delays in providing the service, any loss of

use thereof, or for any loss, damage, injury or expense caused directly or indirectly by its actions or inactions in
connection with this agreement or the production, distribution or redistribution of the service. LSEG will not in any way
be liable to you or to any other entity for any indirect, consequential, punitive, special or exemplary damages, including,
but not limited to, loss of profits, resulting there from, regardless of cause and regardless of whether or not LSEG was

advised of the possibility of such damages.

===== Page 28 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM LSEG MAY 15, 2026
THIS WEEK IN EARNINGS
This Week in Earnings provides analysis and commentary on aggregate earnings estimate revisions, growth rates and valuations.  24
JURISDICTION
These Terms and Conditions shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the law of the State of New York
without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law provisions. In no event shall these Terms and Conditions be
governed by the United Nations Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods. UCITA, whether enacted

in whole or in part by any state or applicable jurisdiction, regardless of how codified shall not apply to these Terms and
Conditions and is hereby disclaimed. Any disputes arising under these Terms and Conditions will be brought and heard
in the appropriate Federal or state court located in New York County in the State of New York and each of the parties
hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of such courts.
You may not assign these Terms and Conditions nor any rights granted hereunder by sale, change in control or

otherwise without LSEG’ prior written consent.

===== Page 29 =====

EARNINGS AGGREGATES
ANALYST: Tajinder Dhillon, CFA        Thomas Alonso, CFA
tajinder.dhillon@lseg.com; thomas.alonso@lseg.com
The S&P 500 Earnings Scorecard is the most comprehensive and up to the minute compilation of aggregated earnings
growth and market intelligence covering the companies included in the S&P 500 Index.
This report combines I/B/E/S's unrivaled historical earnings database, in depth coverage of Wall Street analysts'
bottom-up corporate earnings estimates, and the analytic capabilities of the Proprietary Research group

and desk-top solutions.
EARNINGS DASHBOARD
Exhibit 1.   2022Q1 S&P 500 Earnings Dashboard
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Earnings Scorecard provides the aggregate earnings performance relative to estimates and growth rates.
View all Proprietary Research from Refinitiv.
PROPRIETARY RESEARCH
May 5, 2022
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
AGGREGATE EARNINGS AND REVENUE PERFORMANCE VS ESTIMATES

===== Page 30 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
             S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
S&P 500: EARNINGS
Exhibit 2.  2022Q1 Earnings Scorecard
Above Match Below Surprise Reported Index % of
% % % Factor Total # Total # Mrkt Cap
59% 5% 37% 7% 41 59 11.4%
91% 9% - 8.4% 23 32 6.6%
79% - 21% 5.0% 19 21 4.4%
78% - 22% 10.1% 65 66 11.0%
81% 4% 15% 9.5% 52 65 13.9%
89% 2% 9% 2.5% 66 71 7.8%
73% 8% 19% 9.0% 26 28 2.8%
81% 8% 12% 8.9% 26 30 2.8%
84% 4% 12% 6.0% 57 76 27.7%
75% 6% 19% 4.5% 16 23 8.9%
82% - 18% 6.0% 22 29 2.8%
79.9% 3.4% 16.7% 7.3% 413 500
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 3.  2022Q1 Blended (Reported & Estimated) Earnings Growth
Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul 1 Apr
-29.1% -11.9% -0.6% 8.7% 15.4% 54.5%
7.5% 1.9% 5.2% 5.9% 5.6% 10.2%
266.1% 233.5% 165.3% 105.6% 77.0% 85.8%
-17.1% -21.4% -18.7% -20.2% -20.4% 5.1%
17.5% 10.2% 11.9% 6.1% -1.4% 6.5%
39.9% 36.8% 54.9% 64.6% 62.8% 78.8%
45.2% 35.0% 35.4% 28.3% 13.0% 6.0%
27.3% 16.0% 10.1% 8.0% 5.0% 5.5%
13.4% 8.7% 6.2% 5.1% 2.8% 11.1%
-3.9% -5.2% 0.0% 2.0% -0.4% 16.5%
12.3% 6.7% 6.6% 7.0% 7.7% 6.3%
10.2% 6.4% 7.5% 5.8% 2.9% 16.7%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 4.  2022Q1 Actual Earnings Growth
S&P 500
9.2%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 5.  S&P 500 YoY Growth Rates

Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
2
Technology
S&P 500
Materials
Energy
Industrials
Real Estate
Financials
S&P 500
Communication Services
Health Care
Technology
TRPR_82201_20220505

Communication Services
Utilities
Sector
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Utilities
MAY 5, 2022
Consumer Discretionary
Real Estate
Consumer Staples
Financials
Sector
Energy
Health Care
Industrials
Materials
 Today
19Q4 20Q1 20Q2 20Q3 20Q4 21Q1 21Q2 21Q3 21Q4 22Q1E 22Q2E 22Q3E 22Q4E 23Q1E 23Q2E 23Q3E 23Q4E
Revenue 5.8% -1.4% -8.7% -0.9% 2.7% 13.5% 25.2% 17.0% 15.1% 13.2% 9.4% 9.4% 7.1% 4.4% 4.7% 4.2% 3.9%
Net Income 1.6% -13.6% -31.4% -6.0% 4.8% 53.1% 94.8% 42.1% 30.1% 8.0% 2.4% 7.2% 7.6% 10.8% 10.8% 8.1% 7.5%
Earnings 3.1% -12.8% -30.6% -6.5% 3.8% 52.8% 96.3% 42.6% 32.1% 10.2% 5.3% 10.4% 10.6% 10.9% 11.9% 8.9% 8.7%
-40%
-20%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%

===== Page 31 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
             S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
S&P 500: REVENUE
Exhibit 6.  2022Q1 Revenue Scorecard
Above Match Below Surprise Reported Index
% % % Factor Total # Total #
71% - 29% 0.8% 41 59
83% - 17% 3.5% 23 32
78% - 22% 8.7% 18 21
52% - 48% 1.0% 64 66
81% - 19% 3.2% 52 65
82% - 18% 1.2% 66 71
85% - 15% 3.3% 26 28
77% - 23% 1.0% 26 30
88% - 12% 2.4% 57 76
38% - 63% -1.6% 16 23
73% - 27% 3.9% 22 29
74.2% - 25.8% 2.5% 411 500
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 7.  2022Q1 Blended (Reported & Estimated) Revenue Growth
Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul 1 Apr
9.0% 8.7% 10.0% 11.1% 13.2% 14.1%
8.4% 6.4% 5.1% 4.4% 3.3% 4.4%
59.6% 46.0% 33.8% 21.8% 10.4% 12.2%
1.1% 0.8% -0.4% -1.0% -1.3% 3.9%
14.2% 11.5% 11.3% 8.4% 4.8% 4.3%
12.9% 11.9% 13.9% 14.7% 13.4% 14.1%
23.4% 20.1% 15.6% 12.3% 8.4% 3.2%
20.7% 19.0% 14.1% 8.8% 6.6% 6.0%
12.2% 10.3% 7.6% 6.8% 5.1% 5.9%
7.5% 7.6% 7.3% 9.6% 9.2% 9.7%
-4.0% -7.2% -5.2% 0.6% -1.6% 8.7%
13.2% 10.9% 9.7% 8.5% 6.6% 7.7%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 8.  2022Q1 Actual Revenue Growth
S&P 500
14.8%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
THE LATEST AVAILABLE CORPORATE PRE-ANNOUNCEMENTS
Exhibit 9. Earnings Pre-Announcements
2Q2022 2Q2022 2Q2021 2Q2021 1Q2022 1Q2022
Total # Total % Total # Total % Total # Total %
20 29.0% 32 50.0% 14 29.2%
3 4.3% 8 12.5% 2 4.2%
46 66.7% 24 37.5% 32 66.7%
69  64   48   
2.3   0.8   2.3   
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
3
In-Line
 Today
Sector
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Type
Sector
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Energy
Health Care
MAY 5, 2022
Negative
Energy
Total
N/P Ratio
Technology
Communication Services
Utilities
S&P 500

Technology
S&P 500
Real Estate
Financials
Financials
Utilities
Health Care
Industrials
Materials
Communication Services
Positive
Industrials
Materials
Real Estate
TRPR_82201_20220505

===== Page 32 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
HISTORICAL/CURRENT/FUTURE EARNINGS GROWTH RATES
Exhibit 10. Historical/Current/Future Earnings Growth Rates
2021Q1 2021Q2 2021Q3 2021Q4 2022Q1 2022Q2 2022Q3 2022Q4 2023Q1
226.1% 380.5% 19.4% 54.1% -29.1% 4.3% 35.0% 11.1% 77.8%
11.1% 20.4% 7.4% 7.7% 7.5% -1.0% 3.1% 5.4% 7.0%
28.0% 243.3% 1798.0%
12611.0% 266.1% 170.9% 70.4% 30.0% 0.8%
138.0% 158.2% 35.9% 9.9% -17.1% -18.1% -3.6% 2.4% 12.9%

26.7% 27.2% 29.0% 28.0% 17.5% 4.9% 3.3% 5.0% -4.3%
3.0% 698.4% 88.4% 43.8% 39.9% 30.5% 33.3% 47.8% 36.6%
62.4% 139.5% 89.1% 64.2% 45.2% 17.9% 13.6% 6.8% -7.7%
5.8% 38.7% 34.4% 17.6% 27.3% 2.9% 11.1% 11.5% -2.6%
44.9% 49.6% 38.2% 24.6% 13.4% 2.8% 7.4% 10.0% 10.2%
53.1% 72.8% 35.6% 16.6% -3.9% -12.2% -2.2% 3.8% 8.9%
-0.9% 12.6% 10.3% -1.3% 12.3% -12.2% -7.4% 13.0% -1.8%
52.8% 96.3% 42.6% 32.1% 10.2% 5.3% 10.4% 10.6% 10.9%
53.4% 80.6% 34.3% 23.5% 4.2% -0.8% 7.0% 9.3% 11.8%

Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
CURRENT/FUTURE SHARE-WEIGHTED EARNINGS
Exhibit 11. Current/Future Share-Weighted Earnings ($B's )
2022Q1 2022Q2 2022Q3 2022Q4
22.06 35.02 42.77 41.42
25.51 25.42 27.86 27.30
34.61 42.49 41.66 38.56
71.99 68.95 72.97 76.41
82.27 76.98 79.18 76.11
26.67 37.67 40.09 39.67
16.27 18.96 17.05 16.03
10.46 10.01 10.39 10.31
101.64 95.75 104.66 125.51
44.95 43.22 45.65 50.76
13.32 10.01 14.84 9.68
449.75 464.49 497.13 511.75

Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
HISTORICAL/CURRENT/FUTURE REVENUE GROWTH RATES
Exhibit 12. Historical/Current/Future Revenue Growth Rates
2021Q1 2021Q2 2021Q3 2021Q4 2022Q1 2022Q2 2022Q3 2022Q4 2023Q1
21.0% 35.2% 11.0% 11.9% 9.0% 11.8% 16.2% 13.2% 12.8%
5.0% 13.9% 11.4% 9.5% 8.4% 3.9% 4.3% 4.2% 2.8%
3.0% 117.4% 75.7% 91.3% 59.6% 43.9% 27.8% 10.0% -10.9%
33.2% 6.0% 4.0% -4.0% 1.1% -3.3% 2.6% 6.4% 7.5%
9.9% 19.7% 14.8% 13.6% 14.2% 6.9% 3.9% 2.3% 1.7%

1.9% 28.5% 16.5% 12.9% 12.9% 12.3% 13.6% 10.9% 9.1%
12.6% 37.2% 31.4% 27.1% 23.4% 15.2% 9.2% 4.3% 0.9%
1.2% 18.8% 16.2% 18.4% 20.7% 14.6% 13.4% 9.5% -0.4%
22.1% 22.2% 19.8% 13.8% 12.2% 8.2% 10.1% 9.4% 7.8%
12.6% 25.4% 16.6% 11.2% 7.5% 4.2% 5.8% 7.3% 7.6%
16.1% 10.7% 9.3% 19.9% -4.0% -1.2% 1.7% -7.7% 0.1%
13.5% 25.2% 17.0% 15.1% 13.2% 9.4% 9.4% 7.1% 4.4%
14.4% 21.0% 13.7% 10.9% 9.9% 6.6% 7.8% 6.8% 6.1%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
4
Materials

Real Estate
S&P 500 Ex-Energy
Technology
Communication Services
Utilities
S&P 500
Financials
Health Care
Consumer Discretionary
Energy
S&P 500
MAY 5, 2022
Sector
Utilities
Communication Services
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Industrials
Financials
Materials
Sector
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
S&P 500 Ex-Energy
Energy
Consumer Staples
Energy
S&P 500
Industrials
Materials
Industrials
Technology
Health Care
Real Estate
Health Care

Sector
Real Estate
Technology
Communication Services
Utilities
40.8
427.3
183.5
48.3
1,911.1
#REF!
67.2
Financials
2023
184.8
115.1
136.8
328.3
305.3
168.2
63.8
TRPR_82201_20220505
479.5
212.1
51.2
2,088.4
43.2
2022
141.9
106.0
151.8
288.4
312.0
143.9

===== Page 33 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
CURRENT/FUTURE REVENUE
Exhibit 13. Current/Future Revenue ($B'S )
2022Q1 2022Q2 2022Q3 2022Q4
440.6 480.4 502.5 544.1
350.2 347.0 369.9 373.8
331.2 348.8 345.9 342.9
384.9 388.2 399.0 404.2
696.3 688.3 696.8 709.3
338.3 367.3 376.9 384.1
120.7 129.6 125.1 122.9
33.0 33.8 34.1 35.6
411.6 405.1 421.3 479.6
265.4 269.9 277.8 307.8
86.6 74.6 90.1 87.8
3,458.9 3,533.1 3,639.4 3,792.0
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv

2021Q4 REPORTED RESULTS
Exhibit 14. Blended (Reported & Estimated) Quarterly Earnings Growth for 2021Q4
Final 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul 1 Apr 1 Jan
54.1% 7.2% 23.6% 30.6% 28.5% 48.1%
7.7% 2.3% 3.9% 5.9% 6.0% 9.1%
12611.0% 10446.8% 4933.1% 3599.4% 2101.2% 3730.0%
9.9% 2.9% -0.7% -3.1% -10.5% 5.9%
28.0% 19.1% 21.3% 10.3% 12.8% 16.8%
43.8% 51.4% 67.6% 68.4% 69.9% 72.8%
64.2% 64.1% 62.4% 35.9% 13.8% 18.0%
17.6% 13.8% 13.9% 11.7% 7.9% 11.2%
24.6% 15.9% 14.9% 12.3% 7.6% 16.9%

16.6% 9.6% 11.5% 7.0% 5.2% 20.7%
-1.3% 0.7% -0.9% 5.3% 14.3% 17.7%
32.1% 22.3% 21.7% 17.3% 13.4% 22.5%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
THE QUARTERLY OUTLOOK FOR THE S&P 500 EARNINGS
Exhibit 15. Blended (Reported & Estimated) Quarterly Earnings Growth for 2022Q1
Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul 1 Apr
-29.1% -11.9% -0.6% 8.7% 15.4% 54.5%
7.5% 1.9% 5.2% 5.9% 5.6% 10.2%
266.1% 233.5% 165.3% 105.6% 77.0% 85.8%
-17.1% -21.4% -18.7% -20.2% -20.4% 5.1%
17.5% 10.2% 11.9% 6.1% -1.4% 6.5%

39.9% 36.8% 54.9% 64.6% 62.8% 78.8%
45.2% 35.0% 35.4% 28.3% 13.0% 6.0%
27.3% 16.0% 10.1% 8.0% 5.0% 5.5%
13.4% 8.7% 6.2% 5.1% 2.8% 11.1%
-3.9% -5.2% 0.0% 2.0% -0.4% 16.5%
12.3% 6.7% 6.6% 7.0% 7.7% 6.3%
10.2% 6.4% 7.5% 5.8% 2.9% 16.7%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
5
Utilities
Materials
Technology
Consumer Staples
Energy
Health Care
Industrials
Financials
Materials
S&P 500
Communication Services
Industrials
Real Estate
Materials
Health Care
#REF!

S&P 500
MAY 5, 2022
S&P 500
143.2
1,854.4
Communication Services
Technology
Utilities
Real Estate
Communication Services
Utilities
Real Estate
Financials
Sector
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Energy
2023
#REF!
357.4
14,917.2
2022
1,852.6
1,615.3
1,060.3
331.4
13,570.7
1,399.2
479.1
1,378.1
465.8
127.9
Consumer Discretionary
Technology
Health Care
Industrials
Sector
1,211.7
1,684.2
2,840.6
1,496.2
1,279.9
2,171.3
1,355.0
1,275.9
1,484.3
2,624.2

TRPR_82201_20220505
Financials
Sector
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Energy

===== Page 34 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
Exhibit 16. Estimated Earnings Growth for  2022Q2
Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul
4.3% 17.9% 21.7% 27.0% 52.3%
-1.0% 2.5% 4.3% 5.7% 8.8%
170.9% 124.6% 59.5% 28.5% 31.2%
-18.1% -16.6% -16.2% -17.1% 3.8%
4.9% 7.2% 7.1% 2.5% 6.1%
30.5% 25.7% 32.9% 34.6% 47.1%
17.9% 11.3% 3.3% -2.3% -5.2%
2.9% 1.9% -0.7% -2.6% 1.7%
2.8% 5.7% 3.9% 3.4% 12.1%
-12.2% -2.6% 0.7% 3.1% 12.5%
-12.2% -10.5% -9.8% -9.9% 7.1%

5.3% 6.8% 5.1% 3.6% 14.4%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 17. Estimated Earnings Growth for 2022Q3
Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct
35.0% 42.1% 39.3% 48.0%
3.1% 5.4% 7.0% 9.9%
70.4% 40.7% 3.7% 4.8%
-3.6% -4.3% -4.5% 8.1%
3.3% 6.4% 3.8% 10.3%
33.3% 31.1% 32.2% 36.0%
13.6% 6.6% -3.8% -9.0%
11.1% 10.8% 0.8% 9.2%
7.4% 8.9% 6.3% 13.3%
-2.2% 5.1% 7.3% 15.5%
-7.4% -6.9% -3.9% 4.0%
10.4% 10.6% 7.4% 14.5%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 18. Estimated Earnings Growth for 2022Q4

Today 1 Apr 1 Jan
11.1% 15.5% 57.3%
5.4% 7.5% 10.3%
30.0% 6.0% -13.6%
2.4% 1.2% 7.4%
5.0% 7.3% 12.7%
47.8% 47.1% 36.4%
6.8% -0.5% -11.9%
11.5% 12.1% 11.1%
10.0% 10.7% 12.7%
3.8% 10.0% 17.8%
13.0% 20.4% 18.2%
10.6% 10.4% 14.1%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
6
Energy
Health Care
Industrials
Materials
Energy
Utilities
S&P 500
Sector
Consumer Staples
Industrials
Consumer Staples
Health Care
Technology
Utilities
Financials
Health Care
Industrials

Materials
Utilities
Technology
Communication Services
Consumer Discretionary
Financials
Sector
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Energy
Consumer Discretionary
Real Estate
Communication Services
Real Estate
Financials
S&P 500
Sector
Materials
Technology
Communication Services
Real Estate
S&P 500
MAY 5, 2022
TRPR_82201_20220505

===== Page 35 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
Exhibit 19. Estimated Earnings Growth for 2023Q1
Today 1 Apr
77.8% 47.4%
7.0% 8.7%
0.8% -9.2%
12.9% 16.3%
-4.3% 2.1%
36.6% 36.8%
-7.7% -8.1%
-2.6% 6.0%
10.2% 13.7%
8.9% 16.0%
-1.8% 4.3%
10.9% 13.0%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
THE CALENDAR YEAR OUTLOOK FOR S&P 500 EARNINGS
Exhibit 20. Estimated Earnings Growth for 2022
Today 1 Apr 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul 1 Apr
6.8% 16.9% 28.5% 28.8% 31.7% 37.4%

3.7% 4.6% 6.7% 7.9% 8.0% 8.8%
90.4% 64.9% 28.4% 25.9% 27.8% 36.1%
-10.3% -10.9% -9.1% -6.9% -1.0% 10.7%
6.7% 8.0% 7.1% 4.7% 6.1% 6.5%
37.2% 35.0% 37.7% 37.3% 36.9% 35.9%
17.8% 11.2% 4.2% 0.1% 1.6% 10.0%
12.0% 10.1% 5.3% 6.5% 6.0% 9.6%
8.9% 9.2% 7.6% 9.7% 11.4% 12.9%
-4.1% 1.9% 6.9% 10.2% 13.2% 17.6%
2.0% 1.5% 3.1% 6.8% 7.8% 6.5%
8.7% 8.8% 8.4% 9.2% 11.6% 15.3%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 21. Estimated Earnings Growth for 2023
Today 1 Apr

31.0% 24.2%
8.6% 8.8%
-9.9% -10.8%
13.9% 14.3%
-0.3% -0.6%
19.4% 20.5%
-5.0% -3.5%
6.0% 7.7%
12.7% 12.8%
15.6% 14.0%
7.8% 8.2%
10.0% 9.8%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
7
Industrials
Materials
Real Estate
Technology
Communication Services
Utilities
S&P 500
Sector
Energy
Communication Services
Utilities
S&P 500
MAY 5, 2022
Financials
Real Estate
Financials
Consumer Staples
Real Estate
Sector
Health Care
Industrials
Materials
Technology
Sector

Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Energy
Health Care
Technology
Communication Services
Utilities
Health Care
Industrials
Materials
Financials
S&P 500
Consumer Discretionary
Consumer Staples
Energy
TRPR_82201_20220505

===== Page 36 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
S&P 500 History
Exhibit 22. S&P 500 Composite (.SPX) Three Month Close and Forward 4 QTR (F4Q) & Trailing 4 QTR (T4Q) P/E History
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
MAJOR INDEX VALUATION METRICS
Exhibit 23. Major Index Valuation Metrics
Last Trailing Trailing Forward Forward
Close Total P/E Total P/E
4,300.17 214.58 20.0 234.18 18.4
2,610.06 175.10 14.9 194.37 13.4
1,267.21 88.16 14.4 98.35 12.9

1,949.92 77.55 25.1 101.26 19.3
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
QUARTERLY REPORTED RESULTS AND FUTURE EXPECTATIONS
Exhibit 24. Industry Analyst Estimates - S&P 500 Bottom Up ($/share)
1Q 2Q 3Q 4Q CY
2008 18.96 19.78 17.49 5.62 65.47
2009 12.83 16.03 16.36 16.80 60.80
2010 19.71 21.48 21.75 22.55 85.28
2011 23.50 24.14 25.65 24.55 97.82
2012 25.60 25.84 26.00 26.32 103.80
2013 26.74 27.40 27.63 28.62 109.68
2014 28.18 30.07 30.04 30.54 118.78
2015 28.60 30.09 29.99 29.52 117.46

2016 26.96 29.61 31.21 31.30 118.10
2017 30.90 32.58 33.45 36.02 132.00
2018 38.07 41.00 42.66 41.18 161.93
2019 39.15 41.31 42.14 41.98 162.93
2020 33.13 27.98 38.69 42.58 139.72
2021 49.13 52.58 53.72 53.95 208.12
2022 54.34 55.41 59.24 60.93 227.61
2023 58.60 61.13 63.78 65.82 250.64
2024     271.50
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
8
MAY 5, 2022
Index
S&P500 (.SPX)
S&P400 (.IDX)
S&P600 (.SPCY)
Russell 2K (.RUT)
Year
TRPR_82201_20220505
4-May

4,300.17
18.4
20.0
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
3,800
4,000
4,200
4,400
4,600
4,800
5,000
20-Oct
27-Oct
3-Nov
2-Dec
6-Jan
25-Jan
1-Feb
8-Feb
3-Mar
7-Apr
20-Apr
27-Apr
4-May
P/E Ratio
S&P 500 Close (USD)
Close (USD) F4Q P/E T4Q P/E

===== Page 37 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
Exhibit 25. S&P 500 Bottom Up ($'s/Share)
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
Exhibit 26. Actual vs. Earnings Estimates (Above/Below) and Surprise Factors
22Q1 21Q4 21Q3 21Q2 21Q1 20Q4 20Q3 20Q2 20Q1
7.2% 4.1% 10.4% 19.9% 59.0% 29.8% 56.0% 704.4% -17.9%
58.5% 70.2% 78.3% 87.1% 91.9% 70.5% 86.9% 74.6% 45.0%
36.6% 26.3% 20.0% 12.9% 8.1% 29.5% 13.1% 25.4% 53.3%
8.4% 5.6% 4.5% 10.5% 10.1% 6.4% 12.2% 13.1% 5.7%

91.3% 68.8% 75.0% 84.4% 78.1% 71.9% 87.5% 87.5% 75.8%
0.0% 18.8% 21.9% 9.4% 21.9% 18.8% 9.4% 12.5% 24.2%
5.0% 4.4% 13.4% 14.1% 39.7% 35.2% 67.3% -11.5% 123.4%
78.9% 71.4% 76.2% 81.0% 90.9% 60.9% 68.0% 73.1% 73.1%
21.1% 28.6% 14.3% 19.0% 4.5% 39.1% 20.0% 26.9% 19.2%
10.1% 7.5% 16.7% 24.2% 34.8% 24.3% 20.3% 11.9% -17.5%
78.5% 77.3% 81.8% 95.3% 93.8% 85.9% 79.7% 78.5% 55.4%
21.5% 21.2% 16.7% 3.1% 4.7% 10.9% 18.8% 18.5% 44.6%
9.5% 5.5% 11.9% 9.7% 7.8% 5.5% 13.8% 21.3% 8.1%

80.8% 83.1% 90.6% 93.8% 84.4% 79.4% 93.7% 90.5% 79.0%
15.4% 15.4% 9.4% 3.1% 15.6% 19.0% 4.8% 9.5% 16.1%
2.5% -5.5% 7.2% 12.5% 22.7% 11.2% 41.1% 91.9% 11.1%
89.4% 84.7% 86.1% 84.9% 89.2% 82.4% 91.8% 89.0% 65.8%
9.1% 13.9% 12.5% 9.6% 10.8% 16.2% 8.2% 11.0% 28.8%
9.0% 1.0% -1.0% 5.4% 11.1% 12.0% 12.4% 17.3% 8.1%
73.1% 57.1% 60.7% 75.0% 85.7% 78.6% 85.7% 89.3% 82.1%
19.2% 35.7% 28.6% 21.4% 10.7% 17.9% 14.3% 7.1% 14.3%
8.9% 0.4% 13.1% 11.4% 4.2% 1.5% 1.4% -0.7% -1.9%

80.8% 67.9% 75.9% 82.8% 69.0% 65.5% 60.0% 45.2% 45.2%
11.5% 21.4% 10.3% 13.8% 17.2% 24.1% 30.0% 48.4% 41.9%
6.0% 7.9% 7.4% 14.3% 16.0% 16.0% 10.8% 15.0% 8.5%
84.2% 90.7% 93.4% 94.7% 94.6% 94.6% 90.4% 94.4% 74.6%
12.3% 6.7% 2.6% 2.7% 4.1% 5.4% 4.1% 2.8% 15.5%
4.5% 6.3% 10.9% 22.9% 34.7% 24.3% 26.1% 18.6% -0.7%
75.0% 62.5% 78.3% 91.3% 90.9% 95.5% 86.4% 81.8% 68.2%
18.8% 37.5% 17.4% 8.7% 9.1% 4.5% 9.1% 13.6% 27.3%
6.0% -5.9% 9.5% 13.1% 9.1% 1.3% 3.7% 8.6% 3.8%

81.8% 58.6% 57.1% 71.4% 71.4% 60.7% 67.9% 82.1% 57.1%
18.2% 34.5% 25.0% 21.4% 17.9% 21.4% 25.0% 3.6% 35.7%
7.3% 5.1% 10.2% 15.7% 22.3% 15.7% 19.6% 22.9% 2.6%
79.9% 76.1% 81.2% 87.8% 87.4% 79.3% 84.4% 82.6% 65.1%
16.7% 20.3% 14.4% 9.2% 10.4% 17.5% 12.4% 15.0% 29.9%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
9
Below
Utilities  Surprise %
S&P 500  Surprise %
Above
Below
Above
Materials  Surprise %
Above
Below
Above
Below
Below
Above
Below
Above
Below
Above

Energy  Surprise %
Financials  Surprise %
Above
Above
Industrials  Surprise %
Below
Technology  Surprise %
Communication Services  Surprise %
Below
MAY 5, 2022
Sector
Consumer Discretionary Surprise %
Consumer Staples Surprise %
Above
Below
Above
Below
Above
Below
Real Estate  Surprise %
Health Care  Surprise %
TRPR_82201_20220505
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70

===== Page 38 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV
S&P 500 EARNINGS SCORECARD
Exhibit 27. Actual vs. Revenue Estimates (Above/Below) and Surprise Factors
22Q1 21Q4 21Q3 21Q2 21Q1 20Q4 20Q3 20Q2 20Q1
0.8% 0.9% 1.7% 3.2% 4.4% 2.5% 4.5% 6.6% 2.0%
70.7% 68.4% 76.7% 80.6% 75.8% 59.0% 78.7% 72.9% 60.0%
29.3% 31.6% 23.3% 19.4% 24.2% 41.0% 21.3% 27.1% 40.0%
3.5% 2.7% 3.2% 4.8% 2.4% 2.0% 1.6% 1.3% 1.3%
82.6% 93.8% 84.4% 90.6% 78.1% 75.0% 90.6% 81.3% 66.7%
17.4% 6.3% 15.6% 9.4% 21.9% 25.0% 9.4% 18.8% 33.3%

8.7% 9.7% 10.1% 10.9% 11.3% 0.2% -2.0% -21.5% 5.7%
77.8% 90.5% 71.4% 90.5% 81.8% 69.6% 48.0% 11.5% 42.3%
22.2% 9.5% 28.6% 9.5% 18.2% 30.4% 52.0% 88.5% 57.7%
1.0% 1.0% 4.7% 11.7% 5.7% 13.7% 10.9% 12.0% -17.2%
51.6% 71.2% 81.8% 84.4% 81.3% 79.7% 82.8% 60.0% 53.8%
48.4% 28.8% 18.2% 15.6% 18.8% 20.3% 17.2% 40.0% 46.2%
3.2% 1.6% 3.4% 3.7% 0.4% 2.1% 3.0% 2.2% 3.5%
80.8% 75.4% 82.8% 98.4% 68.8% 84.1% 88.9% 79.4% 83.9%
19.2% 24.6% 17.2% 1.6% 31.3% 15.9% 11.1% 20.6% 16.1%

1.2% 0.7% 0.0% 2.8% 3.9% 3.4% 3.8% 4.5% 0.6%
81.8% 70.8% 61.1% 89.0% 81.1% 74.3% 80.8% 78.1% 54.8%
18.2% 29.2% 38.9% 11.0% 18.9% 25.7% 19.2% 21.9% 45.2%
3.3% 2.2% 2.7% 3.6% 2.0% 3.5% 1.5% 0.2% 0.9%
84.6% 75.0% 82.1% 71.4% 75.0% 75.0% 75.0% 50.0% 57.1%
15.4% 25.0% 17.9% 28.6% 25.0% 25.0% 25.0% 50.0% 42.9%
1.0% 2.8% 2.9% 3.1% 1.0% 2.5% 1.7% -0.7% 2.6%
76.9% 92.9% 89.7% 86.2% 62.1% 65.5% 70.0% 35.5% 61.3%
23.1% 7.1% 10.3% 13.8% 37.9% 34.5% 30.0% 64.5% 38.7%

2.4% 2.9% 0.7% 4.4% 5.4% 5.0% 2.7% 5.4% 2.3%
87.7% 88.0% 73.7% 93.3% 93.2% 85.1% 93.2% 84.7% 70.4%
12.3% 12.0% 26.3% 6.7% 6.8% 14.9% 6.8% 15.3% 29.6%
-1.6% 2.1% 0.9% 4.7% 3.7% 3.4% 3.8% 1.4% -0.3%
37.5% 62.5% 60.9% 95.7% 86.4% 90.9% 81.8% 77.3% 54.5%
62.5% 37.5% 39.1% 4.3% 13.6% 9.1% 18.2% 22.7% 45.5%
3.9% 18.5% 2.6% 4.3% 9.1% -8.7% -4.1% -6.4% -8.7%
72.7% 62.1% 75.0% 67.9% 60.7% 21.4% 28.6% 10.7% 7.1%
27.3% 37.9% 25.0% 32.1% 39.3% 78.6% 71.4% 89.3% 92.9%

2.5% 2.7% 2.9% 5.2% 4.0% 3.7% 3.6% 2.7% -0.6%
74.2% 76.7% 76.0% 87.4% 78.2% 73.1% 78.8% 64.9% 59.1%
25.8% 23.3% 24.0% 12.6% 21.8% 26.9% 21.2% 35.1% 40.9%
Source: I/B/E/S data from Refinitiv
10
Energy  Surprise %
Above
Below
Financials  Surprise %
Above
Below
Consumer Staples Surprise %
Above
Below
MAY 5, 2022
TRPR_82201_20220505
Below
Technology  Surprise %
Above
Below
Above
Below
Consumer Discretionary Surprise %
Above
Sector
Above
Below
Below
Real Estate  Surprise %

Above
S&P 500  Surprise %
Below
Health Care  Surprise %
Above
Below
Industrials  Surprise %
Above
Below
Materials  Surprise %
Above
Communication Services  Surprise %
Above
Below
Utilities  Surprise %

===== Page 39 =====

JURISDICTION
11
The service does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell securities of any kind and Refinitiv has not undertaken any liability or
obligation relating to the purchase or sale of any securities for or by you.
Refinitiv does not warrant the accuracy of the reports for any particular purpose and expressly disclaims any warranties of
merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose; nor does Refinitiv guarantee the accuracy, validity, timeliness or completeness of any

information or data included in these reports for any particular purpose. Refinitiv is under no obligation to provide you with any current or
corrected information. Neither Refinitiv nor any of its affiliates, directors, officers or employees, will be liable or have any responsibility of
any kind for any loss or damage (whether direct, indirect, consequential, or any other damages of any kind even if Refinitiv was advised
of the possibility thereof) that you incur in connection with, relating to or arising out of these materials or the analysis, views,

recommendations, opinions or information contained therein, or from any other cause relating to your access to, inability to access, or
use of these materials, whether or not the circumstances giving rise to such cause may have been within the control of Refinitiv.
The service is furnished to you on an “as is” basis with all faults and defects contained therein. Refinitiv does not make any
representations or warranties either express or implied, including without limitation, any implied warranty of merchantability or fitness for

a particular purpose or use, with respect to any aspect of the service. Refinitiv does not make any warranties that the service will be
uninterrupted, timely, complete, and accurate or error free, or the results to be obtained from use of the service. Use of the service is at
your sole risk and Refinitiv shall not have any responsibility or liability for any errors or omissions in, or resulting from the use of, the
services or the software product, any decision made or action taken by you in reliance upon the services, any failures or delays in

providing the service, any loss of use thereof, or for any loss, damage, injury or expense caused directly or indirectly by its actions or
inactions in connection with this agreement or the production, distribution or redistribution of the service. Refinitiv will not in any way be
liable to you or to any other entity for any indirect, consequential, punitive, special or exemplary damages, including, but not limited to,
loss of profits, resulting there from, regardless of cause and regardless of whether or not Refinitiv was advised of the possibility of such

damages.
These Terms and Conditions shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the law of the State of New York without giving effect
to any choice of law or conflict of law provisions. In no event shall these Terms and Conditions be governed by the United Nations
Convention on Contracts for the International Sale of Goods. UCITA, whether enacted in whole or in part by any state or applicable
jurisdiction, regardless of how codified shall not apply to these Terms and Conditions and is hereby disclaimed. Any disputes arising

under these Terms and Conditions will be brought and heard in the appropriate Federal or state court located in New York County in the
State of New York and each of the parties hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of such courts.
You may not assign these Terms and Conditions nor any rights granted hereunder by sale, change in control or otherwise without
Refinitiv’ prior written consent.
The information provided in these materials is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country

derivatives related to such securities.
TRPR_82201_20220505

===== Page 40 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH 
EARNINGS AGGREGATES 
Earnings scorecard provides the aggregate earnings performance relative to estimates and growth rates.  
View all Proprietary Research from Refinitiv subscription channels. 
A N A L Y S T :  T a j i n d e r  D h i l l o n ,  C F A                                         May 3, 2022 
tajinder.dhillon@lseg.com

STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK  
EUROPEAN AGGREGATE ESTIMATES AND REVISIONS

 First quarter earnings are expected to increase 35.4% from Q1 2021. Excluding the Energy sector, earnings 
are expected to increase 14.9%.

 First quarter revenue is expected to increase 19.0% from Q1 2021. Excluding the Energy sector, revenues are 
expected to increase 10.2%.

 131 companies in the STOXX 600 have reported earnings to date for Q1 2022. Of these, 72.5% reported results 
exceeding analyst estimates. In a typical quarter 52% beat analyst EPS estimates.

 172 companies in the STOXX 600 have reported revenue to date for Q1 2022. Of these, 76.7% reported revenue 
exceeding analyst estimates. In a typical quarter 57% beat analyst revenue estimates.

 During the week of May 9, 54 companies are expected to report quarterly earnings.

SECTION A: EARNINGS OUTLOOK

Exhibit 1A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Earnings Dashboard

Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 41 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      2 
Exhibit 2A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Earnings Growth Estimate

Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 3A.  STOXX 600 YoY Growth Rates

Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 42 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      3 
Q1 2022: EARNINGS SCORECARDS

Exhibit 4A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Earnings vs. Expectations 
  Surprise Reported Cos. w/ Ests.
Sector Above % Match % Below % Factor % Total # Total # 
Basic Materials 93% 0% 7% 14% 14 30
Consumer Cyclicals 73% 0% 27% 5% 15 41 
Consumer Non-Cyclicals 83% 0% 17% 12% 6 18
Energy 78% 0% 22% 20% 9 18 
Financials 65% 0% 35% 17% 26 54
Healthcare 67% 0% 33% 6% 12 33 
Industrials 67% 10% 24% 16% 21 48
Technology 70% 5% 25% 7% 20 41 
Real Estate 71% 0% 29% 3% 7 15
Utilities 100% 0% 0% 179% 1 15 
STOXX 600 72.5% 2.3% 25.2% 14.4% 131 313
 Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Through May 3, 131  companies in the STOXX 600 I ndex reported earnings for Q1 2022 . Of these, 72.5% reported 
earnings above analyst estimates. In a typical quarter (since 2011), 52% of companies beat estimates and 40% miss 
estimates.

In aggregate, companies are reporting earnings that are 14.4% above estimates, which is above the 5.8% long-term 
(since 2011) average surprise factor.

Q1 2022: REVENUE SCORECARDS

Exhibit 5A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Revenue vs. Expectations 
  Surprise Reported Cos. w/ Ests.
Sector Above % Match % Below % Factor % Total # Total #
Basic Materials 77% 0% 23% 3% 22 36
Consumer Cyclicals 81% 0% 19% 4% 16 54
Consumer Non-Cyclicals 100% 0% 0% 4% 12 29
Energy 85% 0% 15% 8% 13 18
Financials 84% 0% 16% 4% 31 56
Healthcare 86% 0% 14% 4% 14 40
Industrials 62% 0% 38% 5% 26 66
Technology 63% 0% 37% 0% 27 52
Real Estate 63% 0% 38% -3% 8 16
Utilities 100% 0% 0% 19% 3 14
STOXX 600 76.7% 0.0% 23.3% 5.4% 172 381
 Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Through May 3, 172 companies in the STOXX 600 Index reported revenues for Q1 2022. Of these, 76.7% exceeded 
analyst expectations. In a typical quarter (since 2011), 57% of companies beat estimates and 43% miss estimates.

In aggregate, companies are reporting revenues that are 5.4% above estimates, which is above the 0.7% long-term 
(since 2011) average surprise factor.

===== Page 43 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      4 
Q1 2022: EARNINGS GROWTH RATES

Exhibit 6A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Earnings Growth (Based on 301 constituents with data in both current 
and year-ago period) 
 Earnings €B Earnings €B Growth €B Growth %
Sector 22Q1 21Q1 22Q1 22Q1 
Basic Materials 9.1 6.1 3.1 50.5%
Consumer Cyclicals 11.5 8.7 2.8 31.9% 
Consumer Non-Cyclicals 5.0 5.2 -0.2 -4.3%
Energy 29.2 9.4 19.8 211.6% 
Financials 29.1 28.2 1.0 3.5%
Healthcare 16.2 14.3 2.0 13.8% 
Industrials 8.0 5.1 2.9 56.2%
Technology 7.2 7.6 -0.3 -4.5% 
Real Estate 1.1 0.8 0.2 28.6%
Utilities 4.9 4.3 0.6 13.8% 
STOXX 600 121.3 89.6 31.7 35.4%
 Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

The estimated earnings growth rate for the STOXX 600 for Q1 2022 is 35.4%. The STOXX 600 expects to see share-
weighted earnings of €121.3B in Q1 2022, compared to share-weig hted earnings of €89.6B (based on the year-ago 
earnings of the current constituents) in Q1 2021.

Eight of the ten sectors in the index expect to see an improvement in earnings relative to Q1 2021. The Energy sector 
has the highest earnings growth rate for the quarter, while the  Technology has the weakest anticipated growth 
compared to Q1 2021.

The Energy sector has the highest earnings growth rate (211.6%)  of any sector. It is expected to earn €29.2B in Q1 
2022, compared to earnings of €9.4B in Q1 2021.

The Technology sector has the lowest earnings growth rate (-4.5 %) of any sector. It is expected to earn €7.2B in Q1 
2022, compared to earnings of €7.6B in Q1 2021.

Exhibit 7A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Actual Earnings Growth  
 STOXX 600 
Today 38.4% 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 8A.  STOXX 600: 2022 Earnings Growth (Based on 591 constituents with estimates) 
 Earnings €B Earnings €B Growth €B Growth %
Sector 2022 2021 2022 2022
Basic Materials 85.3 77.5 7.9 10.2%
Consumer Cyclicals 87.5 76.1 11.4 15.0%
Consumer Non-Cyclicals 71.3 66.1 5.3 8.0%
Energy 97.7 57.0 40.7 71.5%
Financials 161.0 176.7 -15.7 -8.9%
Healthcare 80.9 73.1 7.8 10.7%
Industrials 70.6 55.2 15.4 27.8%
Technology 51.7 47.8 3.9 8.2%
Real Estate 9.8 9.1 0.7 7.7%
Utilities 27.1 24.9 2.2 8.7%
STOXX 600 742.8 663.3 79.5 12.0%
 Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 44 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      5 
Q1 2022: REVENUE GROWTH RATES

Exhibit 9A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Revenue Growth (Based on 366 constituents with data in both current 
and year-ago period) 
 Revenue €B Revenue €B Growth €B Growth %
Sector 22Q1 21Q1 22Q1 22Q1 
Basic Materials 112.4 88.4 23.9 27.1%
Consumer Cyclicals 191.1 177.0 14.1 8.0% 
Consumer Non-Cyclicals 122.7 114.1 8.6 7.6%
Energy 232.3 124.3 108.0 86.9% 
Financials 206.1 200.2 6.0 3.0%
Healthcare 106.1 88.9 17.2 19.3% 
Industrials 167.7 141.4 26.3 18.6%
Technology 97.6 97.6 0.0 0.0% 
Real Estate 2.4 2.0 0.3 15.6%
Utilities 56.2 54. 1 2.1 3.8% 
STOXX 600 1294.5 1088.0 206.5 19.0%
 Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

The estimated revenue growth rate for the STOXX 600 for Q1 2022  is 19.0%. The STOXX 600 is expected to earn 
revenues of €1294.5B in Q1 2022, compared to €1088.0B in Q1 2021.

Nine of the ten sectors in the index expect to see an improvement in revenues relative to Q1 2021. The Energy sector 
has the highest revenue growth rate for the quarter, while the Technology has the weakest anticipated growth 
compared to Q1 2021.

The Energy sector has the highest revenue growth rate (86.9%) of any sector. It is expected to generate sales of 
€232.3B in Q1 2022, compared to sales of €124.3B in Q1 2021.

The Technology sector has the lowest revenue growth rate (0.0%)  of any sector. It is expected to generate sales of 
€97.6B in Q1 2022, compared to sales of €97.6B in Q1 2021.

Exhibit 10A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Actual Revenue Growth  
 STOXX 600 
Today 25.1% 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 11A.  STOXX 600: 2022 Revenue Growth (Based on 593 constituents with estimates) 
 Revenue €B Revenue €B Growth €B Growth %
Sector 2022 2021 2022 2022 
Basic Materials 829.4 712.8 116.6 16.4%
Consumer Cyclicals 1, 024.2 917.4 106.9 11.7% 
Consumer Non-Cyclicals 775.6 720.4 55.2 7.7%
Energy 1,190.1 772.7 417.4 54.0% 
Financials 1,243.5 1,208.5 35.0 2.9%
Healthcare 445.3 406.6 38.6 9.5% 
Industrials 915.2 824.0 91.2 11.1%
Technology 486.8 452.7 34.1 7.5% 
Real Estate 20.7 18.2 2.5 13.6%
Utilities 452.1 470.7 -18.7 -4.0% 
STOXX 600 7,382.8 6,504.0 878.8 13.5%
 Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 45 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      6 
Q1 2022: EARNINGS GROWTH RATES BY COUNTRY

Exhibit 12A.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Earnings Growth Rate Estimates by Country

Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Analysts expect positive earnings  growth from 11 of the 15 coun tries represented in the STOXX 600 index. Norway 
(107.8%) and Netherlands (80.9%) have the highest estimated ear nings growth rates, while Portugal (-28.0%) and 
Belgium (-25.2%) have the lowest estimated growth.

EURO ZONE EARNINGS GROWTH RATES BY SECTOR

Exhibit 13A.  STOXX 600 Eurozone Earnings Growth Rates 
Sector 2022Q1 2022Q2 2022Q3 2022Q4 CY2022
Basic Materials 38.3% -13. 7% -24.8% -30.0% -2.1% 
Cyclical Consumer 17.2% 7.1% 8.2% 25.4% 9.2% 
Non-Cyclical Consumer -11.4% 11.0% 35.1% 5.8% 10.6%
Energy 242.6% 150.0% 81.8% 25.2% 65.0%
Financials 2.7% -9.4% 1.7% 13.4% -1.9%
Healthcare 6.9% 5.8% 7.4% 17.5% 6.3% 
Industrials 20.7% -0.9%  36.7% 35.6% 25.8% 
Technology -2.6% -6.0% 12.8% 9.6% 9.6% 
Real Estate 24.0% - 72.0% 19.2% -2.0% 0.9%
Utilities 7.6% 12.0% 197.6% -21.0% 6.4%
Total 25.1% 5.2% 18.2% 9.4% 10.5%
Number of constituents with estimates 160 165 160 162 267 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data 
Note: Includes only constituents domiciled in Eurozone.

===== Page 46 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      7 
AGGREGATE ESTIMATES AND REVISIONS 
Note: The estimate revision numbers below are an aggregate of the total number of earnings estimate 
revisions for the Fiscal Year 1 period for all companies in the STOXX 600 over the previous seven days. 
Up revisions represent the total number of estimates for Fiscal Year 1 submitted in the past seven days 
that are higher than the previous estimates for Fiscal Year 1. Down revisions represent the total number 
of estimates for Fiscal Year 1 submitted in the past seven days of that are lower than the previous 
estimates for Fiscal Year 1.

Exhibit 14A.  Estimate Revisions – STOXX 600 
 Total Up Down 
Week Ending Revisions Revisions % Revisions % 
12-Apr-22 1,021 486 48% 535 52%
19-Apr-22 749 361 48% 388 52%
26-Apr-22 1,166 617 53% 549 47%
03-May-22 1,640 1,001 61% 639 39% 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 15A.  STOXX 600 Earnings Estimate Revision Trend

Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 47 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      8 
Exhibit 16A.  STOXX 600: Weekly Earnings Estimate Revisions by Sector

Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 17A.  STOXX 600: 12-month Forward Price/Earnings Ratio

Source: Refinitiv Datastream

Q1 2022 – Q1 2023: EARNINGS GROWTH

The estimated earnings growth rates for the STOXX 600 for Q1 20 22 through Q1 2023 are 35.4%, 14.6%, 22.2%, 
12.6% and -4.4%, respectively. For sector-level growth rates, see Exhibits 2C-6C in this report.

EARNINGS CALENDAR

There are 54 STOXX 600 companies with quarterly earnings estimates scheduled  to report quarterly earnings during 
the week of May 9, 2022.

===== Page 48 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      9 
SECTION B: EARNINGS CALENDAR

MONDAY: MAY 9

Exhibit 1B.  Monday Earnings Calendar 
Date Ticke r Company Type Currency Est  Yr Ago % Dif
09/05/2022 DSMN.AS Koninklijke DSM NV QTR EUR 1.23       
09/05/2022 IFXGn.DE Infineon Tech nologies AG QTR EUR 0.40   0.2 4 67.4 
 Source: Refinitiv Eikon.

===== Page 49 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      10 
TUESDAY: MAY 10

Exhibit 2B.  Tuesday Earnings Calendar 
Date Ticker Company Type Currency Est  Yr Ago % Dif 
10/05/2022 AMBUb.CO Ambu A/S QTR DKK 0.17   0.38 -56.6 
10/05/2022 BAKKA.OL P/F Bakkafrost QTR DKK 6.09   2.95 106.5
10/05/2022 BAYGn.DE Bayer AG QTR EUR 2.93   2.59 13.0
10/05/2022 ELE.MC Endesa SA QTR EUR 0.51   0.46 10.1
10/05/2022 MUVGn.DE 
Muenchener 
Rueckversicherungs 
Gesellschaft in Muenchen AG Q TR EUR 4.38   4.24 3.3 
10/05/2022 RECI.MI 
Recordati Industria Chimica e 
Farmaceutica SpA QTR EUR 0.50   0.43 16.7
 Source: Refinitiv Eikon.

===== Page 50 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      11 
WEDNESDAY: MAY 11

Exhibit 3B.  Wednesday Earnings Calendar 
Date Ticker Company Type Currency Est  Yr Ago % Dif 
11/05/2022 ACS.MC 
ACS Actividades de 
Construccion y Servicios SA QTR EUR 0.50   0.67 -24.4
11/05/2022 AD.AS Koninklijke Ahol d Delhaize NV QTR EUR 0.50   0 .54 -7.8 
11/05/2022 AGES.BR Ageas SA QTR EUR 1.13   1.58 -28.6 
11/05/2022 ALCC.S Alcon AG QTR USD 0.54   0.49 10.2 
11/05/2022 BNRGn.DE Brenntag  SE QTR EUR 1.46   0.63 131.3
11/05/2022 CONG.DE Continental  AG QTR EUR 1.15   2.81 -59.1
11/05/2022 DNP.WA Dino Polska SA QTR PLN 1.90   1.48 28.3
11/05/2022 ENR1n.DE Siemens Energy  AG QTR EUR 0.13   0.16 -21.3  
11/05/2022 EVTG.DE Evotec SE QT R EUR 0.02   0.32 -93.8 
11/05/2022 GMAB.CO Genmab A/S QT R DKK 5.47   16.61 -67.0 
11/05/2022 HEIG.DE Heidelber gCement AG QTR EUR 0.92   
11/05/2022 INWT.MI 
Infrastrutture Wireless Italiane 
SpA QTR EUR 0.08   0.05 84.4 
11/05/2022 LEGn.DE LEG Immobilien SE QTR EUR 1.55   1.04 49.3 
11/05/2022 MDBI.MI 
Mediobanca Banca di Credito 
Finanziario SpA QTR EUR 0.21   0.22 -6.8 
11/05/2022 MOWI.OL Mowi ASA Q TR EUR 0.32   0.15 114.4 
11/05/2022 RAAG.DE Rational AG QTR EUR 2.55   2.15 18.6 
11/05/2022 SAGAb.ST Sagax AB QTR SEK 2.10   1.86 12.9
11/05/2022 SDFGn.DE K&S AG QTR EUR 1.51   1.47 2.9
11/05/2022 SRG.MI Snam SpA QTR EUR 0.09   0.10 -10.0
11/05/2022 SWMA.ST Swedish Matc h AB QTR SEK 0.99   0.97 1.6 
11/05/2022 TKAG.DE thyssenkrupp AG QTR EUR 0.52   -0.80   
11/05/2022 TRN.MI 
Terna Rete Elettrica Nazionale 
SpA QTR EUR 0.10   0.09 11.1
11/05/2022 TUIT.L TUI AG QT R EUR -0.09   -0.88   
 Source: Refinitiv Eikon.

===== Page 51 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      12 
THURSDAY: MAY 12

Exhibit 4B.  Thursday Earnings Calendar 
Date Ticker Company Type Currency Est  Yr Ago % Dif 
12/05/2022 AEGN.AS Aegon NV Q TR EUR 0.38   0.18 111.1 
12/05/2022 ALKb.CO ALK-Abello A/S QTR DKK 0.65   0.58 13.5
12/05/2022 ALVG.DE Allianz SE QTR EUR 5.04   6.20 -18.8
12/05/2022 BALDb.ST Fastighets AB Balde r QTR SEK 6.42   4.45 44.2
12/05/2022 BC8G.DE Bechtle AG QTR EUR 0.45   0.35 28.5 
12/05/2022 BOUY.PA Bouygues SA QTR EUR -0.38   0.06 -725.0 
12/05/2022 BT.L BT Group PLC QTR GBP 0.05       
12/05/2022 FORTUM.HE Fortum Oyj QTR EUR 0.57   1.03 -45.1
12/05/2022 KBC.BR KBC Groep NV QTR EUR 0.96   1.31 -26.6
12/05/2022 KGH.WA KGHM Polska M iedz SA QTR PLN 8.75   6.83 28.1
12/05/2022 KOJAMO.HE Kojamo Oyj QTR EUR 0.12   0.11 4.5 
12/05/2022 MRCG.DE Merck KGaA QTR EUR 2.37   2.18 8.9 
12/05/2022 MRL.MC MERLIN Properties SOCIMI SA QTR EUR 0.15   0. 12 25.0 
12/05/2022 PRY.MI Prysmian SpA QTR EUR 0.32   0.29 10.3
12/05/2022 PSMGn.DE Prosiebensat 1 Media SE QTR EUR 0.24   0.16 52. 8
12/05/2022 RWEG.DE RWE AG QTR EUR 1.01   0.50 102.0
12/05/2022 SALM.OL SalMar ASA QTR NOK 8.61   3.69 133.6 
12/05/2022 SIEGn.DE Siemens AG QTR EUR 2.13   2.79 -23.6 
12/05/2022 SWECb.ST Sweco AB (p ubl) QTR SEK 1.38   1.20 14.6 
12/05/2022 UTDI.DE United Internet AG QTR EUR 0.51   0.58 -12.1
 Source: Refinitiv Eikon.

===== Page 52 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      13 
FRIDAY: MAY 13

Exhibit 5B.  Friday Earnings Calendar 
Date Ticker Company Type Currency Est  Yr Ago % Dif 
13/05/2022 AFXG.DE Carl Zeiss Meditec AG QTR EUR 0.69   0.61 13 .8 
13/05/2022 DTEGn.DE Deutsche Tele kom AG QTR EUR 0.32   0.25 26.4
13/05/2022 FNTGn.DE freenet AG QTR EUR 0.03   0.40 -92.5
 Source: Refinitiv Eikon.

===== Page 53 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      14 
SECTION C: EARNINGS DATA TABLES

Exhibit 1C.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Earnings Scorecard   
Sector Above Match Below Surprise Reported Index
Basic Materials 93% 0% 7% 14% 14 53 
Cyclical Consumer 73% 0% 27% 5% 15 93
Non-Cyclical Consumer 83% 0% 17% 12% 6 51
Energy 78% 0% 22% 20% 9 19
Financials 65% 0% 35% 17% 26 99 
Healthcare 67% 0% 33% 6% 12 52 
Industrials 67% 10% 24% 16% 21 102 
Technology 70% 5% 25% 7% 20 68
Real Estate 71% 0% 29% 3% 7 35
Utilities 100% 0% 0% 179% 1 28
STOXX 600 72.5% 2.3% 25.2% 14.4% 131 600 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 2C.  STOXX 600: Q1 2022 Earnings Growth   
Sector Today 1 Ap r 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul
Basic Materials 50.5% 36.2% 35.7% 13.1% -2.7%
Cyclical Consumer 31.9% 14.9% 30.9% 63.8% -0.8%
Non-Cyclical Consumer -4.3%  -5.3% -12.3% -13.5% -10.5% 
Energy 211.6% 134.2% 78.3% 55.6% 28.4% 
Financials 3.5% -1.4% -6.6% -7.5% -15.3%
Healthcare 13.8% 6.7% 6.6% -2.4% 2.4%
Industrials 56.2% 41. 1% 20.1% 4.7% 1.3%
Technology -4.5% -6.3% 1.1% 0.0% -7.4% 
Real Estate 28.6% 28.5%  31.1% 26.6% 31.7% 
Utilities 13.8% 5.1% - 13.2% -19.0% -34.7% 
STOXX 600 35.4% 20.8% 15.0% 7.4% -1.8%
Number of Companies Included in Estimate 301 286 201 193 168
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 3C.  STOXX 600: Q2 2022 Earnings Growth   
Sector Today 1 Ap r 1 Jan 1 Oct 1 Jul
Basic Materials -1.1% -1.9% -5.1% -18.0% -15.6% 
Cyclical Consumer 14.6% 11.8% 38.0% 97.8% 4.9% 
Non-Cyclical Consumer 12.4% 11.4% 16.5% 14.4% 13.4%
Energy 125.0% 69.9% 44.3% 18.3% 23.7%
Financials -12.7% -12.8% -14.6% -19.9% 1.2%
Healthcare 16.2% 17.0% 14.3% 8.6% 11.4% 
Industrials 24.0% 24. 0% 18.9% 0.6% 0.8% 
Technology 0.6% 7.8% 11.8% 11.0% 29.2% 
Real Estate -64.0% -64. 1% -65.8% -61.0% 4.9%
Utilities 13.4% 39.1% 28.3% 52.7% 11.7%
STOXX 600 14.6% 9.3% 7.7% 0.9% 11.2%
Number of Companies Included in Estimate 303 288 202 178 135 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 54 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      15 
Exhibit 4C.  STOXX 600: Q3 2022 Earnings Growth   
Sector Today 1 Ap r 1 Jan 1 Oct 
Basic Materials -22.6% -26.0% -16.9% -19.8% 
Cyclical Consumer 19.8% 26.7% 9.9% 57.6% 
Non-Cyclical Consumer 23. 4% 16.6% 11.1% 21.0%  
Energy 97.8% 47.3% 26.1% 8.4%  
Financials 0.1% -0.6% -7.1% 10.4%  
Healthcare 12.1% 9.7% 7.0% 14.4% 
Industrials 30.5% 34.4% 24.0% 7.4% 
Technology 14.0% 13.0% 4.7% 15.8% 
Real Estate 12.6% 12.8% 19.6% 22.3%  
Utilities 194.6% 327. 4% 143.8% 30.6%  
STOXX 600 22.2% 13. 9% 8.0% 12.8% 
Number of Companies Included in Estimate 297 283 174 134 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 5C.  STOXX 600: Q4 2022 Earnings Growth  
Sector Today 1 Ap r 1 Jan  
Basic Materials -29.7% -34.3% -43.1%   
Cyclical Consumer 22.6% 25.8% 35.8%  
Non-Cyclical Consumer 8.9% 13.0% 14.9%  
Energy 31.7% 22.5% -9.2%  
Financials 27.0% 15.6% 55.4%   
Healthcare 9.4% 7.7% 14.5%   
Industrials 15.3% 17.3% -2.4%   
Technology 2.3% -1.5% 17.2%  
Real Estate -5.6% 9.7% 4.7%  
Utilities -25.2% -16.7% -53.9%  
STOXX 600 12.6% 10.2% 10.9%   
Number of Companies Included in Estimate 302 280 149   
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 6C.  STOXX 600: Q1 2023 Earnings Growth  
Sector Today 1 Apr  
Basic Materials -14.3% -17.1%  
Cyclical Consumer -1.3% 19.0%  
Non-Cyclical Consumer 5.6% 6.3%    
Energy -31.2% -15.1%    
Financials 17.1% 9.8%    
Healthcare 9.7% 20.1%  
Industrials -20.6% -16.6%  
Technology 42.1% 44.1%    
Real Estate 20.2% 19.9%    
Utilities 15.0% 3.7%    
STOXX 600 -4.4% 2.1%  
Number of Companies Included in Estimate 123 108  
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 55 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      16 
Exhibit 7C.  STOXX 600: EY 2022 Earnings Growth  
Sector Today 1 Apr  
B a s i c  M a t e r i a l s  1 0 . 2 %  2 . 8 %     
C y c l i c a l  C o n s u m e r  1 5 . 0 %  1 4 . 4 %     
N o n - C y c l i c a l  C o n s u m e r  8 . 0 %  7 . 6 %     
Energy 71.5% 52.8%  
Financials -8.9% -7.9%  
Healthcare 10.7% 8.9%  
Industrials 27.8% 26.7%     
T e c h n o l o g y  8 . 2 %  9 . 1 %     
R e a l  E s t a t e  7 . 7 %  5 . 2 %     
Utilities 8.7% 9.3%  
STOXX 600 12.0% 9.5%  
N u m b e r  o f  C o m p a n i e s  I n c l u d e d  i n  E s t i m a t e  5 9 1  5 9 2     
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 8C.  STOXX 600: Actual Earnings Growth Rates 
Sector 21Q4 21Q3 21Q2 21Q1 20Q4
Basic Materials 92.6% 143. 1% 322.3% 109.3% 74.4% 
Cyclical Consumer 9.3% 107. 7% 358.4% 1220.4% 35.4% 
Non-Cyclical Consumer 11.3% -5.1% 11.8% 132.3% 4.2%
Energy 393.9% 546.9% 318.6% 96.0% -57.4%
Financials 64.5% 47. 0% 109.8% 151.2% -37.0%
Healthcare 12.7% 13.6% 7.1% -3.1% -3.4% 
Industrials 68.0% 246.3%  1408.8% 469.9% -33.6% 
Technology 49.0% 14. 7% 53.3% 71.3% -8.6%
Real Estate 11.6% 24. 9% 43.3% 49.3% 61.1%
Utilities 45.8% -44. 7% 40.5% 8.6% 13.0%
STOXX 600 59.2% 60.5% 152.6% 96.4% -14.5% 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 9C.  STOXX 600 Earnings: Actual vs. Estimate (Above/Match/Below)

21Q4 21Q3 21Q2 21Q1 20Q4
Above 61% 63% 63% 72% 64%
Match 4% 6% 7% 4% 3%
Below 35% 30% 30% 25% 32% 
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

Exhibit 10C.  STOXX 600 Earnings: Actual vs. Estimate (Aggregate Difference) 
 21Q4 21Q3 21Q2 21Q1 20Q4
Surprise Factor 0.7% 12.2% 23.1% 22.5% 19.7%
Source: Refinitiv I/B/E/S data

===== Page 56 =====

PROPRIETARY RESEARCH FROM REFINITIV                               MAY 3, 2022 
STOXX 600 EARNINGS OUTLOOK 
                                                               TRPR_83201_444                                                                      17 
NOTES/DEFINITIONS

IMPORTANT NOTICE

By accessing these materials, you hereby agree to the following:

Refinitiv does not warrant the accuracy of the reports for any particular purpose and expressly disclaims any 
warranties of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose; nor does Refinitiv guarantee the accuracy, validity, 
timeliness or completeness of any information or data included in these reports for any particular purpose. Refinitiv 
is under no obligation to provide you with any current or corre cted information.  Neither Refinitiv nor any of its 
affiliates, directors, officers or employees, will be liable or have any responsibility of any kind for any loss or damage 
(whether direct, indirect, consequ ential, or any other damages of any kind even if Refin itiv was advised of the 
possibility thereof) that you incur in connection with, relatin g to or arising out of these materials or the analysis, 
views, recommendations, opinions or information contained therein, or from any other cause relating to your access 
to, inability to access, or use of these materials, whether or not the circumstances giving rise to such cause may 
have been within the control of Refinitiv.

The information provided in these materials is not intended for distribution to, or use by, any person or entity in any 
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be  contrary to law or regulation or which would subject 
Refinitiv or its affiliates to any registration requirement within such jurisdiction or country.

DISCLAIMERS

The service does not constitute a recommendation to buy or sell  securities of any kind and Refinitiv has not 
undertaken any liability or obligation relating to the purchase or sale of any securities for or by you.

The service is furnished to you on an “as is” basis with all fa ults and defects contained t herein. Refinitiv does not 
make any representations or warranties either express or implied, including without limitation, any implied warranty 
of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use, with respect to any aspect of the service. Refinitiv does 
not make any warranties that the service will be uninterrupted,  timely, complete, and accurate or error free, or the 
results to be obtained from use of the service. Use of the service is at your sole risk and Refinitiv shall not have any 
responsibility or liability for any errors or omissions in, or resulting from the use of, the services or the software 
product, any decision made or action taken by you in reliance upon the services, any failures or delays in providing 
the service, any loss of use ther eof, or for any loss, damage, injury or expense caused directly or indirectly by its 
actions or inactions in connection with this agreement or the production, distribution or redistribution of the service. 
Refinitiv will not in any way be liable to you or to any other entity for any indirect, consequential, punitive, special or 
exemplary damages, including, but not limited to, loss of profi ts, resulting there from, regardless of cause and 
regardless of whether or not Refinitiv was advised of the possibility of such damages.

JURISDICTION

These Terms and Conditions shall be construed and enforced in accordance with the law of the State of New York 
without giving effect to any choice of law or conflict of law provisions. In no event shall these Terms and Conditions 
be governed by the United Nations Convention on Contracts for t he International Sale of Goods. UCITA, whether 
enacted in whole or in part by any state or applicable jurisdiction, regardless of how codified shall not apply to these 
Terms and Conditions and is hereby disclaimed. Any disputes ari sing under these Terms and Conditions will be 
brought and heard in the appropria te Federal or state court loc ated in New York County in the State of New York 
and each of the parties hereby irrevocably consents to the jurisdiction of such courts.

You may not assign these Terms and Conditions nor any rights gr anted hereunder by sale, change in control or 
otherwise without Refinitiv’ prior written consent.

## 035_Sony_FG_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

KEY
POINT
2026/5/14グローバル経済・金利ウォッチ
出所：Bloomberg
長短金利スプレッドは再び拡大へ
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
25/01 25/04 25/07 25/10 26/01 26/04
10年・2年債利回りスプレッド（左軸）
40年・10年債利回りスプレッド（右軸）
（年/月）
（％PT） （％PT）
1.足下の円金利の動向
日本の長期金利（10年債利回り）は上昇傾向が続いており、
5月初めには 2.5％を突破した 。長短金利スプレッドをみると
（図表1）、4月は拡大傾向で推移し 、1月の自民党の食品減
税の検討加速の発表時と同程度までスプレッドは拡大した 。
短期金利が 4月上旬から徐々に低下した一方、 長期金利の
上昇が続き、スプレッドは大きく拡大した格好だ。
短期金利低下の理由は、日銀の4月会合での利上げ観測が
後退したため だ。①中東情勢の先行き不透明感、 ②4月上
旬の日銀支店長会議・ さくらレポートによる中東情勢悪化 を

懸念するコメントや景気ウォッチャー調査 ・消費動向調査な
どの各種マインド指標の悪化、 ③高市政権の利上げ慎重姿
勢との見方の広がり （「日銀利上げも選択肢」との赤沢大臣
発言を高市首相・ 片山大臣が即座に否定 ）、④FRBの利下
げ観測後退や為替介入警戒などによる大幅円安の回避な
どが、その理由として考えられる。
一方、長期金利の上昇の理由は① 原油高などによるインフ
レ期待の高まり、②日本銀行の中期的な利上げ継続姿勢を
受けた政策金利の最終到達点 （ターミナルレート） の上昇
（2％到達）が主だろう 。ガソリン補助金や電気・ ガス代補助
金の検討など燃料価格抑制策拡大の可能性が意識され、
財政リスクプレミアムが意識された可能性もある。ただ、CDS
スプレッドや超長期債の動きを見る限り 、現段階では債券市
場で財政要因が強く意識されているわけではないとみている。
超長期金利（40年債利回り）は、長期金利にある程度連動し
て上昇傾向で推移している。超長期・長期利回りスプレッドも
緩やかに拡大しているが（図表1再掲）、スプレッドが大きく拡

大していた衆議院選挙期間中ほどではない 。超長期債市場
における需要不足（ 買い手不足） による流動性の低下が金
利を押し上げる構図に変化はない 。しかし、前月に述べた要
因、①高市政権の財政政策に対する警戒の後退 、②日銀の
国債買入れ比率の上昇 、③内外金利差拡大に伴う外国人
投資家の買い需要 、④会計ルール緩和期待などが 、引き続
きスプレッドの野放図な上昇を抑制しているとみられる。
加えて、日本銀行が4月の利上げは見送ったものの、中長期
的な利上げ継続姿勢を示している点はビハインドザカーブ懸
念を抑制している面もあろう
。3月以降のタカ派的情報発信
の継続に加え、4月会合での展望レポートの内容は予想を上
回るタカ派的な内容になったとみている。
2026年5月円金利見通し：長期金利の短期的な上振れ余地はどの程度か？
 金利の現状：長期金利は原油高や日銀の中長期的な利上げ継続姿勢により上昇。長短スプレッドは拡大。
一方、財政懸念観測の後退などから、超長期・長期金利スプレッド の拡大は抑制されている。

 先行き見通し：長期金利は日銀のタカ派的姿勢を受けて緩やかな上昇傾向。超長期金利は需給改善観測
などからピークアウトに向かう公算。ただし中東情勢次第で金利のリスクバランスは大きい。
 長期金利の上振れ余地の検討：現状の水準はターミナルレート想定値と整合的な水準。ガソリン補助金な
どで財政悪化観測が高まれば、 15～35bp程度の上昇リスクあり。
1
issue date 2026/5/14
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ(株)
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
宮嶋 貴之
円金利見通し表（レポート執筆時点）
図表1：長短および超長期・長期の金利スプレッド
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
政策金利 ％ 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 1.25 1.25
5年債利回り ％ 1.55 1.78 1.90 1.92 1.94 1.96
10年債利回り ％ 2.07 2.35 2.50 2.51 2.53 2.55
20年債利回り ％ 2.98 3.28 3.30 3.30 3.31 3.31

40年債利回り ％ 3.62 3.93 3.90 3.89 3.88 3.87
コアCPI（生鮮食品除く） 前年比、％ 2.81 1.76 2.37 2.62 2.62 2.34
コアコアCPI（生鮮食品・エネルギー除く） 前年比、％ 2.99 2.57 2.13 2.29 2.40 2.20
出所：Macrobond、Bloomberg、ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社
2026年2025年 2027年
円
金
利
見
通
し
そ
の
他

===== Page 2 =====

2026/5/14
グローバル経済・金利ウォッチ
4月会合の詳細な内容は弊社の井上エグゼクティブエコノミス
トのレポートをご参照いただきたい。筆者が特に大きなポイン
トと感じた点は 、①先行きの物価上振れリスクを考慮した利
上げ可能性を明示した点、 ②生鮮食品・ エネルギーを除くコ
アコア CPIの予想値も 28年度まで 2％台を維持する見通しと
なった点だ 。つまり、次回利上げが近いこと 、中期的に利上
げを継続することが示唆されたというわけだ。
中東情勢の影響もあり、会合後の長短および超長期・長期金
利スプレッドが明確に縮小傾向に転じているわけではない 。
しかし、4月会合の日銀の発信内容は、ビハインドザカーブ懸
念の後退によるイールドカーブ全体のフラット化要因 になると
筆者はみている。
2.先行きの円金利見通し
当社はもともと 日銀の 4月利上げ見送りを予想し 、実際その
通りとなったため 、今後の利上げパスの予想も不変 だ。次回
利上げは6月を想定し、その後は半年に 1度の利上げを予想

する。そのほか、中東情勢などに関わる 当社ハウスビューの
前提は前月から不変のため、長期・超長期金利見通しも足下
の原油高などを受けた上方修正にとどまる。
ただし、6月利上げのハードルは決して低くない点には留意さ
れたい。植田総裁も述べた通り 、6月会合までに CPIが大きく
上振れする公算は小さい 。一方で、景気下振れ材料は予想
より早く顕在化する可能性 がある。実際、 3月の鉱工業生産
では化学や石油製品の生産が減少し、先行きも化学や紙・パ
ルプは減産計画が示され、 ホルムズ海峡封鎖の悪影響が顕
在化するリスクは高まりつつある 。IMFのPortWatchをみると、
ホルムズ海峡を通過した貨物量はほぼゼロのままだ 。今月
公表される4月の貿易統計や鉱工業生産において 、モノ不足
による景気悪化の蓋然性が高まれば、6月利上げのハードル
は一気に上がる 。この場合、物価上振れリスクも当然高まる
が、景気後退懸念が高まる中での利上げ実施について 、高
市政権ならびに世論を説得することは簡単ではない。こうした

点から、筆者は6月利上げの一番のトリガーは引き続き円安
とみている。次いで、ホルムズ海峡正常化の蓋然性の高まり 、
高市政権の利上げ容認姿勢と考える。
しかし、メインシナリオの確度は低下しているため 、以下では
短期的な長期金利の変動余地について考えてみよう。
足元の長期金利2.5％超は行き過ぎた水準ではない とみてい
る。名目潜在成長率（ 2％台半ば程度） や、海外の長期金利
水準（例えば米国は4 .3％程度）から鑑みれば、 インフレ上振
れや積極財政などのリスクプレミアムの押し上げは大きくな
いと評価している 。なぜなら、債券市場で想定されるターミナ
ルレートの想定（ OIS2年先1年物レート）と長期金利の関係性
から考えると（図表2）、足元のターミナルレート2％から試算さ
れる金利水準の推計値は2.6％程度のため整合的だ。
短期的な長期金利の変動余地は、 このターミナルレートの想
定次第だが、上下双方向とも小さいとみている。上昇リスクに
ついては、物価目標の2％を超えるほどの引き締め水準が迫

られるかどうか、まだ中東情勢含めた経済物価情勢を見極め
る段階にあり、ターミナルレート2.％超の想定は現実的ではな
い。他方で、下方リスクは中東情勢悪化による深刻な景気後
退が現実化すれば起こりうる 。しかし、前月のレポートで述べ
たように、日本経済はある程度耐性を有しているため 、債券
市場での利下げ観測が高まる公算はまだ小さい。
ターミナルレートの変動リスクよりも 、財政悪化懸念による金
利上昇リスクは短期的には軽視できない とみている。なぜな
ら、ガソリン・電気ガス補助金の継続・拡大の可能性は高まっ
ているからだ。今後の原油価格や補助金の期間延長や支援
額拡大などの内容次第で 、食品減税による税収減分 （年間5
兆円）に近づく規模の予算額まで拡大することも 考えられる。
加えて、6月の骨太方針ではいよいよ成長分野への投資など
による財政支出の議論が本格化すると みられる 。財政規律
に関わる議論の内容次第で は、再び財政リスクに焦点があ
たるだろう。
図表2をみると、傾向線よりも金利の上振れが目立つ期間は

①2025年4～5月、②同年10月10日、③26年1月20日だ。いず
れも財政リスクが長期金利を押し上げた。
①の時期は夏の参議院選挙を控えて選挙対策の財政出動
が警戒されたことに加え 、トランプ大統領による世界への防
衛費増加要求などグローバルに財政悪化観測が高まってい
た。加えて、超長期ゾーンの主要な投資家である生命保険会
社の規制対応需要が一巡したことも加わり、超長期債の流動
性が急速に低下した 。これにより、国債需給軟化や財政など
のリスクプレミアムが意識され、長期金利が押し上げられたと
考えられる。同期間は平均して 19bp程度、傾向線よりも上振
れしている。今後財政悪化リスクが高まった際の長期金利の
上昇余地の目安と言えよう。なお、同時期は瞬間的には長期
金利が傾向線よりも35bp上振れしている点も付記しておく。
加えて、②25年10月10日、③26年1月20日も傾向線との乖離
が15bp程度と大きくなっている 。前者は高市早苗自民党総裁
誕生による財政出動観測の高まり 、後者は衆議院総選挙で

の自民党の食品減税の検討加速の公約発表が要因だ。
以上の考察を踏まえると、今後、食品減税と同程度の財政悪
化リスクが懸念されれば、長期金利は15bp程度上振れするリ
スクがあるとみられる 。これを超える財政悪化懸念が高まる
場合、19～35bp程度の上振れ余地がありそうだ。
最後に超長期・ 長期金利スプレッドを計算すると 、①の期間
は平均180bp程度で最大200bp、②は180bp、③は190bpと計
算される。現状のスプレッドは 150bp程度のため、もし財政悪
化リスクが顕在化した場合、 超長期金利は 30bp～50bp程度
上振れするリスク があるとみられる 。今後数カ月は中東情勢
は当然ではあるが、財政関連の議論が金利水準を押し上げ
るかどうかについても注視する必要があろう。
2
図表2：ターミナルレート想定値と長期金利の散布図
宮嶋貴之
注：サンプル期間は2024年3月19日（マイナス金利政策解除）以降
出所：Bloomberg、SFGI
足元の長期金利はターミナルレート想定の上振れに伴って上昇

y = 1.1861x + 0.1854
R² = 0.9655
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
0.5 0.7 0.9 1.1 1.3 1.5 1.7 1.9 2.1
（10年物国債利回り、％）
（OIS2年先1年物レート、％）
2025 年4～5月
2025 年10月10日
2026 年1月20日 足元

===== Page 3 =====

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ 金融市場調査部・研究員紹介
尾河 眞樹 （おがわ まき）
執行役員（金融市場調査部担当）
チーフアナリスト
ファースト ・シカゴ銀行 、JPモルガン ・
チェース銀行などの為替ディーラーを経
て、ソニー財務部にて為替リスクヘッジと
市場調査に従事。 その後シティバンク銀
行（現SMBC信託銀行） で個人金融部門
の投資調査企画部長として 、金融市場
の調査・ 分析を担当 。2016年8月より当
社執行役員。テレビ東京「Newsモーニン
グサテライト 」、日経CNBCなどにレギュ
ラー出演し、金融市場の解説を行ってい
る。主な著書に 『為替ってこんなに面白
い！（2024年幻冬舎新書） 』、『〈最新版〉
本当にわかる為替相場 （2023年日本実
業出版社）』などがある。ソニー銀行株式
会社取締役、 ウェルスナビ株式会社顧
問。人生投資アカデミー® 学長。
井上 哲也 （いのうえ てつや）
金融市場調査部
シニアフェロー エグゼクティブエコノミスト
日本銀行で主として国際金融市場やそ

れに関する政策、 2回の役員秘書（ 福井
副総裁、植田審議委員）、IT革命の影響
に関する研究等を行った後、 野村総合
研究所で主要国の金融政策 、デジタル
通貨、地域金融の活性化等に関する調
査を行い 、成果を多数の報告書等の形
で公表。2026年4月より現職。テレビ出演
や経済メディアへの寄稿を行っているほ
か、主な著書に 『異次元緩和 （2013年日
経BP）』、『デジタル円（2020年日経BP）』、
『CBDCとステーブルコインの衝撃（ 2026
年日経BP）』がある。1985年東京大学経
済学部卒、 1992年イェール大学大学院
経済学修士。
渡辺 浩志 （わたなべ ひろし）
金融市場調査部長 チーフエコノミスト
1999年に大和総研に入社し 、経済調査
部にてエコノミストとしてのキャリアをス
タート 。2006年～2008 年は内閣府政策
統括官室（経済財政分析 ・総括担当）へ
出向し、『経済財政白書』等の執筆を行う。
2011年からはSMBC 日興証券金融経済
調査部および株式調査部にて機関投資

家向けの経済分析 ・情報発信に従事。
2017年1月より当社 。内外のマクロ経済
についての調査 ・分析業務を担当。 ロジ
カルかつデータの裏付けを重視した分析
を行っている。
石川 久美子 （いしかわ くみこ）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
商品先物専門紙での貴金属および外国
為替担当の編集記者を経て、2009年4月
に外為どっとコムに入社し 、外為どっとコ
ム総合研究所の立ち上げに参画。同年6
月から同社研究員として、外国為替相場
について調査 ・分析を行う 。2016年11月
より現職。外国為替市場に関するレポー
ト執筆の他、 テレビ東京 「Newsモーニン
グサテライト」など多数のメディアに出演
し、金融市場の解説を行う 。資源国・ 新
興国通貨に強い。著書に『円安はいつま
で続くのか 為替で世界を読む （2025年
マイナビ新書 ）』がある。Xでの情報発信
（@KumiIshikawa_FX）も行っている。
森本 淳太郎 （もりもと じゅんたろう）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト

みずほフィナンシャルグループにて企画
業務、法人営業などを経験した後、 2019
年8月より現職 。外国為替市場の調査・
分析業務、 特にユーロやポンド 、スイス
フランなどの欧州通貨を専門に担当。 テ
レビ東京 「Newsモーニングサテライト 」、
TOKYO MX 「Stock Voice 東京マーケッ
トワイド 」、日経CNBC 「朝エクスプレス」
「 GINZA CROSSING Talk マーケット
ニュース」などにレギュラー出演し 、金融
市場の解説を行っている 。2013年東京
大学経済学部卒。
宮嶋 貴之 （みやじま たかゆき）
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
2009年にみずほ総合研究所（ 当時） 入
社以来、一貫してエコノミストとしてマク
ロ経済調査を担当。 2011年～2013年は
内閣府（経済財政分析担当）へ出向。官
庁エコノミストとして 『経済財政白書』 、
『月例経済報告』 等を担当。 2021年4月
より現職。2025年から景気循環学会・ 理
事。主な著書（ 全て共著 ）は、『TPP-日

台加盟の影響と展望』（国立台湾大学出
版中心）、『激震 原油安経済』（日経BP）。
日本経済・債券市場、中国などのアジア
情勢が専門、セクターは不動産 、観光、
半導体等を分析。

===== Page 4 =====

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ
本レポートについてのご注意
 ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社は、ソニー生命保険株式会社、ソニー損害保険株式会社、ソニー銀行株式会社の３社を中核とする金融持株会社です。
 当社グループの各事業は、独自性のある事業モデルを構築し、合理的かつ利便性の高い商品・サービスを個人のお客さまに提供しています。
 当社グループの基本情報、グループ各社の事業内容などにつきましては、当社ホームページでご覧いただけます。
https://www.sonyfg.co.jp
介護事業
銀行事業
損害保険事業
生命保険事業
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
（ベンチャーキャピタル事業)
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ (株)

===== Page 5 =====

2026年5月13日発行
2026年5月号

===== Page 6 =====

2026年5月号
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ
経済見通し
エグゼクティブエコノミスト 井上哲也の視点
マクロ経済展望
米国経済見通し
日本経済見通し
欧州経済見通し
中国経済見通し
為替見通し
チーフアナリスト 尾河眞樹の視点
為替相場展望
通貨見通し概略
米ドル
ユーロ
英ポンド
豪ドル
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ
金融・経済見通し
2026年5月号
02
03
04
05
06
07
08
09
10
11
12
13
1
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ
続くイラン情勢の
不透明感と市場変動

===== Page 7 =====

2026年5月号
４月末に集中的に実施された政策決定に関する会合で 、米国、
ユーロ圏、日本の中央銀行はいずれも政策金利の現状維持
を決定した。この点に関して、パウエル議長とラガルド総裁は、
現状の政策金利が、 今後の不透明性に対応する上で 「良い
位置」にあるとの評価を確認した 。植田総裁は、そこまで明確
ではなかったが 、物価の上方リスクと経済の下方リスクの双
方を意識しつつ、中心見通しの実現確度を見極めた上で政策
変更を判断する考えを示唆した。
米欧日の中央銀行からみて政策金利が「 良い位置」にあるこ
とは、具体的には次のような意味合いを持つ。
第一に、足元までの物価や経済に対して政策金利が整合的、
つまり過度に引き締め的でも緩和的でもないことである 。実際、
米国とユーロ圏ではインフレが2 %目標に収斂しつつあり 、経
済も潜在成長率の近傍にある下で 、政策金利は中立金利の
付近にある。日本では、政策金利は中立金利をまだ下回って
いるが、2027年度にかけてインフレ目標が達成される下で経

済が巡航速度で成長する状況での政策金利に向かって 、経
済や物価に過度な負荷をかけずに推移する経路上にある。
第二に 、今後に物価や経済の見通しが大きく変化したり 、そ
れらのリスクが顕著に高まった場合に 、政策金利を機動的に
調整しうることである 。そんなことは当然だし 、いつでも可能と
思われるかもしれないが、実務的にはそう簡単ではない。
なぜなら 、多くの局面において 、政策金利の運営は方向性
（バイアス）を伴うからだ 。物価や経済の上下双方のリスクに
対応しようとして 、短期間に利下げと利上げを織り交ぜること
は現実的でない。金融市場を不必要に不安定化させるだけで
なく、物価や経済の変動幅をむしろ増幅する恐れが大きい 。
これらの点からみて 、米欧日の政策金利が概ね中立近傍に
ある点は 、将来の政策変更に対するバイアスの足枷がない
点で好都合だ。
その一方で 、政策金利が「 良い位置」にあるからといって 、中
央銀行が政策金利の運営を 「左うちわ」で行える訳でないこと
も明らかだ。

現在の米欧日の中央銀行は 、物価や経済の動向を漫然と傍
観しうる立場にはなく、 まさに、見通しの実現確度と上下双方
のリスクを注視し 、変化に対して機動的に対応することが求
められる。そうでなければ 、折角の「 良い位置 」も宝の持ち腐
れになってしまう。
金融政策の機動的な対応に関しては、特に現在の物価や
経済の環境に照らして問題があり 。まず 、供給ショックには
「様子見（look through）」すべきという考え方の妥当性だ 。供
給ショックは 、歴史的には短期間で収束するケースが多かっ
たことや、金融政策が供給側の要因に直接働きかけることが
困難であるといった理由のため 、中央銀行は政策金利の変
更で対応すべきではないとの経験則が存在する 。今回の中
東戦争もエネルギー価格の上昇やサプライチェーンの混乱な
ど、供給側の要因から始まっていることは事実だ。
しかし、コロナ、ウクライナ戦争 、中東戦争と立て続けに供給
ショックが生じたほか、 米欧日の経済が概ね潜在成長率近傍
で、瞬間風速としての需給ギャップが均衡している点を考える

と、「様子見」と決め込むことにはインフレの面でリスクがある 。
一方で、政策金利の変更の効果が波及する上では 、長く不確
実な時間的ラグがある点をどう考えるかも問題だ 。この問題
は常に存在するし 、米欧日ともに既往の利下げや利上げの
影響がこれから顕在化する状況にない点は好都合だ 。それ
でも、再び現在の経済や物価の環境に照らすと 、逆方向の面
から特別な意味を持ち 、しかも、金融政策を決定する会合の
メンバー間で大きく意見が割れている面がある。
一方で、エネルギー価格の高騰が時間的にどの程度継続す
るかが不透明である 。このため 、例えば、 インフレのリスクに
対応すべく利上げをしても 、効果が生ずる頃にはエネルギー
価格も相応に反落しており 、むしろ経済に大きな負担が生ず
る恐れがある 。このリスクは 、中央銀行にインフレのリスクを
より確実に見極めたいとのインセンティブを与える。
他方で、立て続けに供給ショックが生じ 、企業や家計の価格
や賃金に対する姿勢が前向き化していることだ 。結果として、

エネルギー価格の高騰がより迅速かつ幅広い国内物価や賃
金に影響を及ぼす恐れがある 。2022年以降の米欧日の経験
は、こうした影響の波及が政策金利の変更による効果の波及
よりも早かった可能性を示唆している 。このリスクは 、中央銀
行に、インフレのリスクに対する 「保険」としての利上げを促す
インセンティブを与える。
米欧日の当面の政策金利が実際には大きく変わらなかったと
しても、それは相当な分析と議論の結果であることが必要で
あり、つまり、当面の会合は通常以上に 「live」であることが求
められる。
マクロ経済展望
エグゼクティブエコノミスト 井上哲也の視点
2
金融市場調査部
シニアフェロー
エグゼクティブエコノミスト
井上 哲也
政策金利の「良い位置」とは？

===== Page 8 =====

2026年5月号
■図表1：ソフトデータは悪化、ハードデータは堅調
出所：BEA、ミシガン大学、SFGI
■図表2：市場の政策金利見通しと長期期待インフレ率
注：長期期待インフレ率はインフレスワップ5年先5年物
出所：Bloomberg、SFGI
■図表3：FRBの量的引き締め（QT）で国債需給が緩めば
タームプレミアムが米金利を押し上げる可能性
注：長期金利は金融政策見通しを反映する「期待政策金利」と国債需給を表す
「タームプレミアム」に分解可能。FRBが量的引き締めで国債を放出すれば、国
債需給が緩み金利上昇につながりやすい
出所：FRB、Bloomberg、SFGI
イラン情勢を受けソフトデータが悪化している 。企業景況感（PMI
総合）は3月50.3、4月51.7と好不況の境の50近辺にとどまり、消費
者信頼感は5月に48.2と過去最低となった。トランプ政権の支持率
も40.5％（RealClearPolitics）と今任期の最低水準だ 。背景には、
教皇との対立を巡る福音派の反発、 対外軍事介入を嫌う MAGA

派の離反に加え 、ガソリン価格が 4.5㌦/ガロンを突破し 、戦争の
コストが生活費の上昇として可視化されている点がある 。今週の
訪中、7月の建国250周年、11月の中間選挙と重要日程を控え 、
国民に不人気な戦争の長期化に最も強い危機感を抱いているの
はトランプ氏自身である。それでも米株価が最高値圏にあるのは、
追い込まれた同氏が再び「TACO（トランプは怯えて引き下がる）」
を発動するとの期待があるためだ。また、一時120㌦に迫ったWTI
原油は今年末に 75㌦へ低下する見込みで 、先物市場が戦闘の
終結と原油供給の一定の回復を織り込んでいること示唆する。
ソフトデータの悪化に反して、ハードデータは雇用を含め堅調だ。
図表1の通り、近年はマインドとGDP成長率の乖離が目立つ。背景
には①インフラ投資法・CHIPS法・インフレ抑制法の継続、②株高
の資産効果、③AIデータセンター投資 、④トランプ政権の大型減
税・歳出法の実施、⑤4兆㌦の対米直投への期待などが実体経済
を押し上げていることがある。また、産油国である米国には原油供

給の不安はなく、イラン情勢が景気悪化に直結しにくいこともある。
足元で変化が大きいのは市場参加者の政策金利見通しだ 。イラ
ン攻撃前にあった年内2 回超の利下げ期待は、 原油高で消滅し
た（図表2）。もっとも、FRBが真に警戒するのは原油高が賃金や
サービス価格に波及する 「二次的効果」 である。その兆候となる
長期インフレ期待は今のところ安定しており 、FRBが直ちに利上
げに転じる必要性は乏しい。現在の政策金利（3.625％）は、中立
金利（3.125％）を上回る引き締め的な水準にあり、次の一手はな
お利下げが有力とみる 。ただし、足元の雇用の底堅さやインフレ
の高止まり 、FOMC内の慎重論も踏まえれば、 利下げは9 月に1
回のみ、3.375％での打ち止めが見込まれる。一方、トランプ減税
や対米直投が需要を押し上げれば、来年もインフレ率は2％目標
に着地せず、27年以降は再び利上げ局面に入る公算が大きい。
こうした環境下では米長期金利は上振れしやすい。将来の利上げ
が視野に入る上、中間選挙を前に減税・歳出拡大が優先され、財

政規律が緩みやすいためだ。また、イラン情勢が収束しても、トラ
ンプ政権発の不確実性は途絶えず 、長期金利は5％方向へ進む
とみられる。さらに、FRBの議長交代もある。後任のウォーシュ氏
は、FOMCのドットチャート（政策金利見通し）が市場機能を歪めた
と批判してきた。これが廃止となれば、市場は自力での政策予想
を迫られ、個々の経済指標や高官発言への反応は過敏になろう。
さらに同氏はバランスシートの膨張が通貨の信認を損ねインフレ
や資産バブルを招いたと考えており、量的引き締め（QT
）を進める
可能性がある。それは国債需給の悪化（タームプレミアムの上昇）
を通じて金利を押し上げ得る （図表3）。ドットチャート廃止とQTが
重なれば、米長期金利はより上振れしやすいものとなろう。
イラン情勢の長期化でソフトデータは悪化するもハードデータは堅調
利下げ期待は後退、長期金利は新FRB議長の下で上昇の公算
米国経済見通し
3
金融市場調査部長 チーフエコノミスト
渡辺 浩志
（
利上げ
2.0
2.2

2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.0
-3.0
-2.5
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
26/1 26/2 26/3 26/4 26/5 （年/月）
（利下げ/利上げ回数予想、１回25bp） （％）
イラ ン攻撃
長期期待インフレ率
（右軸）
26年内の
利下げ・利上げ回数予想
（26年12月限、右軸）
利下げ
停戦合意
40
55
70
85
100
115
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
85 88 91 94 97 00 03 06 09 12 15 18 21 24
（消費者マインド）（実質ＧＤＰ成長率、前年比、％）
（年）
実質ＧＤＰ成長率
（左軸）
消費者マインド
（3カ月先行、右軸）
シャドーは
景気後退局面
-1.2
-0.9
-0.6
-0.3
0.0
0.3
0.6
0.9
15
17
19
21
23
25
27
29
31
33
21 22 23 24 25 26 27
（FRBの米国債保有／米国債発行残高、％）

（年）
タームプレミアム
（右軸）
ＦＲＢの米国債保有比率
（３カ月先行、逆目盛、左軸）
（タームプレミアム、％）
？

===== Page 9 =====

2026年5月号
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
24/1 24/4 24/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1 26/4
（％）
（年/月）
（％）
日本10年債利回り（左軸）
米国10年債利回り（右軸）
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（年）
ホルムズ海峡通過商船の載貨重量トン（DWT）
12カ月移動平均値
（百万DWT）
■図表1：4月の10年債利回りは上昇傾向
出所：Bloomberg
■図表2：ホルムズ海峡貨物通過量は3月以降、ほぼゼロ
出所：Bloomberg
■図表3：石油製品・化学製品の輸入はアジアからが多い
注：石油製品は概況品コード30303、石油化学は概況品コード501と515の合計
額。
出所：財務省
日本経済見通し
4
4月の日本の長期金利は上昇傾向で推移した （図表1）。4月上旬
の日銀支店長会議・さくらレポートでイラン情勢悪化による景気下

押し懸念に関わるコメントが多く掲載されたことを契機に 、債券市
場では4月会合での利上げ観測が後退した。その結果、短期金利
（2年債利回り ）はやや低下傾向で推移したため 、長短金利スプ
レッドが拡大した。この理由は、①原油高などによるインフレ期待
の高まり、②それに伴う政策金利の最終到達点 （ターミナルレー
ト）の上昇と考えられる 。OIS2年先1年物レートなど 、債券市場が
想定するターミナルレート関連指標をみると 、債券市場では政策
金利2％までの上昇を織り込む動きが強まっており、これに伴って
長期金利の上昇が続いた格好だ。
4月の日銀決定会合の詳細な内容は、 弊社の井上エグゼクティ
ブエコノミストのレポート を参照されたい 。筆者が特にポイントと
感じた点は、①先行きの物価上振れリスクを考慮した利上げの可
能性を明示した点、②生鮮食品・エネルギーを除くコアコアCPIの
前年比予想値が28年度まで2％を明確に上回る伸び率に上方修
正された点だ。つまり、日銀は次回の利上げが近いこと 、その後

も中期的に利上げを継続する方針であることを、 改めて明示した
わけだ。そのため、6月会合までにイラン情勢による景気後退リス
クが大きく高まらない限り 、インフレ上振れリスクを予防的に抑制
するための利上げ実施の可能性が十分考えられる。もともと当社
メインシナリオでは 、4月の利上げ見送り ・6月の利上げ実施を想
定しており、今回の会合結果の内容は概ね想定通りと言える 。そ
のため、当社の短期的な日銀利上げ見通しは前月から不変だ。
しかし、実際の6月利上げのハードルは決して低くないと筆者はみ
ている。足下のホルムズ海峡の貨物通過量をみると （図表2）、い
まだにほぼゼロの状況が続いている 。6月会合までに米国とイラ
ンの和平協議が進展してホルムズ海峡の正常化が徐々に進み
（あるいはその蓋然性が高まり）、国際的なサプライチェーンの大
きな混乱は起こらないと日本銀行は想定している（当社メインシナ
リオも同じ）。しかし、本稿執筆時点ではイラン情勢安定化に向け
た帰趨を明確に描ける状況にはなく、 ホルムズ海峡正常化が夏

場や秋口まで遅れるリスクはある 。そうなれば、石油化学製品な
どの供給制約が強まり 、日本でも同関連製品の調達難による設
備投資や消費の減少を通じた景気下押し圧力が予想以上に強ま
る可能性がある。日本では石油備蓄放出や在庫対応等で当座は
凌げるとみられるが、当然中東からの供給断絶が長期化するリス
クは看過できない 。米国からの石油輸入など代替調達拡充も対
応策として有効だが、一方で石油化学製品を多く輸入しているア
ジア（図表3）でも、エネルギー不足は深刻化しているため、アジア
からの同関連製品輸入が減少する公算も小さくない 。もしそうな
れば、結局、日本でもモノ不足は深刻化することになろう。
6月会合までに上記リスクを測る上で 、貿易統計と鉱工業生産指
数は要注視だ。また、ホルムズ海峡通過量も日々チェックしたい。
もちろん円安が利上げの一番のトリガーとの見方も変わっていな
いため、為替レートの動向も注視しなくてはならない。
4月会合で利上げ見送りも日銀は早期の追加利上げの可能性を示唆
次回利上げ予想は6月で前月から不変、しかしそのハードルは決して低くない

金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
宮嶋 貴之
石油製品 2,577 石油化学 4,629
中東地域 43.8 中国 25.9
韓国 31.2 米国 17.1
中国 7.3 ASEAN 13.7
米国 5.2 韓国 9.3
ASEAN 3.3 台湾 5.8
その他 9.1 その他 28.2
国・地域別シェア（％） 国・地域別シェア（％）
輸入金額（10億円） 輸入金額（10億円）

===== Page 10 =====

2026年5月号
■図表1：資金需要減退は成長率を下押しする
出所：ECB（Bank Lending Survey）、EUROSTAT、SFGI
■図表2：イラン紛争に伴うインフレ圧力が顕在化
注：物価の予想（点線部分）はECBスタッフによる3月時点のシナリオ
出所：EUROSTAT、ECB、SFGI
■図表3：長期インフレ期待は安定、利上げの必要性乏しい
注：市場の長期インフレ期待は、インフレスワップ5年先5年物
出所： ECB（Survey of Professional Forecaster)、Bloomberg、SFGI
ユーロ圏経済は低調。1-3月期の実質GDP成長率は前期から減
速し前期比年率0 .6％と、潜在成長率（1.3％）を大きく下回った 。
また、ECBスタッフの3月時点の見通しでは、 26年の成長率は前
年比0.9％と、12月時点（1.2％）から下方修正された 。イラン紛争
に伴う原油 ・天然ガスの価格急騰と供給不安が、 家計購買力と
企業投資を圧迫している 。ドイツでは4月のIfo景況感指数がコロ

ナ禍以来の低水準に沈んだ 。中国需要の不透明感やユーロ高
による輸出競争力の低下、 米国に連動した高金利の重荷に加え 、
エネルギー供給不安が経済成長の足枷となっている 。さらに
ECBの銀行貸出調査では、1-3月期に貸出態度が大幅に厳格化
し、4-6月期も引き締め継続が見込まれる 。金融環境のタイト化
は家計・企業の資金需要を冷やし、消費・投資の抑制を通じて経
済成長を下押しする（図表1）。ドイツや欧州が進める防衛・インフ
ラ向けの財政支出や南欧景気の底堅さが一定の支えとなるも 、
ユーロ圏全体では成長の停滞が続く公算が大きい。
一方、物価面ではエネルギーを中心に 、押し上げ圧力が顕在化
している。4月のHICP総合は、前年比3.0％とイラン紛争前の2 月
（1.9％）から急加速、 なかでもエネルギーは10 .9％の大幅高と
なった（図表2）。ECBスタッフは3月見通しで基本シナリオ （ブレン
ト原油90 ㌦、インフレ率 2.6％）に加え、逆風シナリオ （同119㌦、
3.5％）と深刻シナリオ （同145㌦、4.4％）を提示している 。足元の

原油は100 ㌦前後で推移しており 、現状は基本と逆風の間に位
置する。イラン紛争は欧州にインフレと景気悪化が並走するスタ
グフレーションの懸念をもたらしている。
当面のインフレ率は3 ％超が見込まれ、 金利先物市場は年内に
約2.9回の利上げを織り込む 。一方、4月のECB理事会は政策金
利を据え置いた 。現在の預金ファシリティ金利（ 2％）は中立金利
（1.75～2.25％）の中位にあり 、物価2％目標とも整合的 （実質政
策金利ゼロ）であることから、理事会は景気・ 物価の上下双方の
リスクに機動的に対応できる「良い位置」にあると評価している。
政策判断の焦点は原油高に伴う短期のインフレ期待の上振れで
はなく、長期のインフレ期待が賃金・ サービス価格へ波及するか
どうかだ。ユーロ圏は労組の交渉力が強く、 インフレ期待が協約
賃金の上昇を通じて現実のインフレに結びつきやすい 。ECBもこ
の「二次的効果」 の見極めを重視している 。インフレ期待の観点
では、欧州委員会の景況感調査で 3月に消費者・小売・サービス

業の価格見通しが上振れたが、 これは1 年先の短期見通しであ
る。一方、 長期のインフレ期待を示す指標（ 図表3）は、物価2 ％
目標と整合的な水準で安定している 。経済への逆風が強まる中 、
短期的に物価が上振れたとしても 、ECBは拙速な利上げを避け 、
当面は据え置きを軸にデータ次第で政策を判断する公算が大き
い。もっとも、エネルギー高によるコストプッシュインフレが長期化
しインフレ期待を押し上げれば、賃金と物価が連鎖的に上昇する
ホームメードインフレへ発展するリスクがある 。ECBが静観を続
けられるかどうかは、長期インフレ期待の安定にかかっている。
イラン紛争に伴うエネルギー価格高騰と供給不安が欧州景気を圧迫
金融環境のタイト化も景気下押し、ECBは2次的インフレを警戒しつつ当面据え置きか
欧州経済見通し
5
金融市場調査部長 チーフエコノミスト
渡辺 浩志
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
-50
-25
0
25
50
03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 27

（資金需要DI） （実質ＧＤＰ、前期比年率、％）
家計・企業の
資金需要
（銀行貸出調査、左軸）
実質ＧＤＰ
成長率
（右軸）
（年）
リーマ ン ショ ッ ク欧州債務危機 コ ロ ナ禍 ウクライナ危機ＢＲＥＸＩＴトラン プ① トラン プ②イラン 紛争
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.9
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
(HICP、前年比％） (長期インフレ予想、％）
（年）
市場の長期インフレ期待
（5年先5年間、右軸）
(HICP、前年比％） (長期インフレ予想、％）
（年）
ＥＣＢ専門家予測調査
（5年先期待インフレ率、左軸）
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
21 22 23 24 25 26 27 28
（前年比、％、寄与度、％pt）
（年）
ＥＣＢの見通し
（3月理事会）
エネルギー
コア財
ユーロ圏の消費者物価

（ＨＩＣＰ総合）
（前年比、％、寄与度、％pt）
食料
コアサービス 基本シナリオ
逆風シナリオ

===== Page 11 =====

2026年5月号
■図表1：4月の中国株は上昇
出所：Bloomberg
■図表2：4月の原油や石油精製品、天然ガスの輸入は減少
出所：中国国家統計局、Macrobond
■図表3：4月の輸出受注は50㌽越えと底堅く推移
出所：中国国家統計局、Macrobond
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
25/1 25/3 25/5 25/7 25/9 25/11 26/1 26/3 26/5
（2025年初=100）
（年/月）
CSI300指数
香港ハンセン中国企業指数
S&P500
-50
0
50
100
150
200
22 23 24 25 26
（年）
原油
石油精製品輸入数量（前年比％）
天然ガス
中国経済見通し
6
4月の中国株式市場は上昇した（図表1）。中東情勢悪化による原
油高や世界経済の先行き不透明感などが株価を下押ししたもの
の、新型AIモデルの開発やAI関連企業に対する政府の政策支援
強化などが株価を下支えした 。加えて、1～3月期GDP成長率の
底堅い結果やPPI など価格統計の持ち直し 、4月のPMIの上振れ

なども株式市場では好感され、株価を押し上げた。
中国の2026年1～3月期GDP成長率は前年比 5％となり、2025年
10～12月期から加速した。主には1～2月までの輸出や生産が底
堅く推移したためだ。ただ不動産不況などを背景に内需は引き続
き弱含んでいる。加えて、4月の貿易統計をみると（図表2）、原油
や石油精製品、天然ガスの輸入数量が急減した。中東情勢悪化
による供給制約が強まる兆候が出てきた可能性がある。
ただし、前月号で述べた通り、中国は電源構成における石炭火力
や再生可能エネルギー比率が高く、エネルギーショックへの耐性
は一定程度有している 。また、強みである太陽光パネルや電気
自動車など再生可能エネルギー製品に対する需要が増加してい
るとみられ、輸出受注は底堅い （図表3）。こうした状況から 、4月
末の中央政治局会議での報告では 、政府はエネルギー安全保
障政策を重視する姿勢をみせ、 金融緩和や財政出動などによる
大規模な景気刺激策には非積極的である点が再確認された。
この4月は台湾海峡問題を巡る動きに注目が集まった。習近平国

家主席は台湾最大野党である国民党（ KMT）の鄭麗文主席と北
京で会談し、台湾独立反対や「1992年コンセンサス」を再確認した。
中国側は、 民進党政権ではなく国民党を通じて台湾への接近を
探っている 。一方で、中国軍機や艦艇による圧力は継続し 、「対
話」と「威圧」を同時に進める姿勢が鮮明だ 。台湾地域内での対
中距離を巡る立場の違いもある。国民党は防衛費増額に慎重姿
勢を示し、米国側は台湾の防衛意思低下を警戒している 。ただ、
台湾世論では依然として防衛力強化支持も根強い 。中国は2028
年台湾総統選挙を重要視しており 、民進党政権が継続した場合、
台湾海峡を巡る対立が激化するリスクは否定しきれない。
金融市場では間もなく行われる米中首脳会談において 、台湾海
峡問題が最大の焦点とみられている 。中国は、台湾最大野党で
ある国民党との対話を通じ、「台湾には対話可能な勢力が存在す
る」と米国側に印象づけようとしている 。習近平政権としては、 台
湾への米国の武器供与縮小や、米国の対台湾関与のトーンダウ

ンを引き出したい考えとみられる 。特に、中国政府は民進党の頼
清徳政権を分離主義的と批判し 、台湾海峡問題を米中対立では
なく中国内部問題として対応する意向を強めている 。一方、米国
側では、議会を中心に台湾支援継続論が根強く、 防衛費増額要
求も強まっている。ただ、中東情勢への対応で米国の外交 ・軍事
資源が分散していることは、 中国にとって米中交渉上の追い風と
なっている 。今回の首脳会談では、 台湾海峡問題を巡る米中の
落としどころがどうなるかが注目される 。中国政府は、 同問題に
おいて、米国から一定の譲歩を引き出して覇権争いでの優位性
を高められるかどうかを探ると予想される。
1～3月期の中国経済は底堅く推移、今後の政府の景気刺激姿勢はやや後退か
イラン情勢悪化の中で行われる米中首脳会談では台湾海峡問題に注目
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
宮嶋 貴之
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
22 23 24 25 26
（DI％PT）
（年）
輸出受注DI

===== Page 12 =====

2026年5月号
4月30日から5月6日にかけてのゴールデンウィーク（GW）只中
に、ドル円で円買い介入と思しき値動きが断続的に見られた 。
初回と思われる4月30日に、ドル円は160円台後半から155円
台半ばに急落 。日銀公表の当座預金増減要因などを元にし
た試算により、合計で約8兆円～10兆円規模の円買い介入が
実施されたとみられている。片山さつき財務相がGW前に記者
団に対し 、「外出の時もお休みの時もスマホを離さずに 、とい
うことだけ申し上げておきます 」と警鐘を鳴らしていただけに 、
GW期間中の介入自体にさほどサプライズはなかったが、 市
場環境となると話は別だ 。主要7カ国（G7）では、「為替の過度
な変動と無秩序な動き 」が経済・金融の安定に悪影響を及ぼ
すという認識が共有されているものの、 今回の介入直前のド
ル円の1 カ月物ボラティリティーは 6％台まで低下しており 、
「過度な変動」 とは言い難い環境だった 。ドル円が160円50銭
を超えてきたタイミングだっただけに 、今回の介入は 、過度な

変動を抑えるためではなく160 円という「水準」を意識したもの
だったと考えられ、仮に今後再び160円が迫った際に、当局が
どう対応するかが、次の注目点となりそうだ。
一方、今年1月23日に、日米協調の「レートチェック 」の観測で
円が急伸したことは記憶に新しい 。ドル円は同日中に 159円
台から155円台まで急落し 、週明け27日には152 円台前半の
安値を付けた 。実弾介入ではなく、 金融機関への単なる 「警
鐘」ともいえるレートチェックだけで 、3営業日で約7円もドル円
が急落したことは、「日米協調」によるアクションの効力がいか
に大きいか、市場の警戒感の強さを表していると言えよう 。報
道によれば、 1月のレートチェックは日本側の要請ではなく、
ベッセント財務長官が主導したという 。米国にメリットがなけれ
ば、円安阻止のためのレートチェックを米側が主導するとは
考えにくい。当時を振り返れば、１月9日の高市内閣解散総選
挙の報道以降、 「積極財政」 への期待による株高と同時に 、

財政悪化懸念による超長期債利回りの上昇と円安が同時進
行し、これが米国債利回りにもじわり飛び火しつつあった 。こ
のため、米当局は更なる長期金利の上昇を防ぐ狙いもあり 、
円安是正に一役買ったのではないか 、というのが市場参加者
の一般的な見方となっている。そのベッセント長官が、5月11、
12日に来日し、高市首相や片山財務大臣らと会談した 。中東
情勢について議論し、為替での日米の連携を確認した模様だ 。
ベッセント長官は昨年10 月の来日で 、片山大臣と会談した際
に、「インフレ期待を安定させ、 為替レートの過度な変動を防
ぐ上で、健全な金融政策と（市場との）対話が重要な役割を果
たす」と述べたと報じられた 。同時に、「アベノミクスの導入か
ら12年が経過し、状況が大きく変化している」と指摘したという。
実際、図表の通りドル円の水準もインフレもこの 10年で大きく
変化しており、「大胆な金融緩和」 「機動的な財政政策」 「成長
戦略」 のアベノミクス 3本の矢と 、サナエノミクスがどのように

異なるのかが、市場の最大の関心事ではないか。 足下、長期
金利は日米共に上昇傾向にある 。イラン情勢により、インフレ
期待が上昇していることなどが背景だろうが、 これが、通貨安
を伴う「悪い金利上昇」とならないように、日米で為替・金利両
面で連携を深めることが重要な局面となっている。
為替の過度な変動に対する介入は容認されるとみられる一
方で、「為替レートはファンダメンタルズを反映すべき 」という
のも、国際的なコンセンサスだ 。その意味では、今回のベッセ
ント・片山会談で 、日銀の金融政策についてどのような議論
があったのかも気になるところだ 。円買い介入はあくまでも時
間稼ぎであり、円を本質的に強くするためには、経済成長と賃
金の上昇を伴った「良いインフレ」と実質金利の上昇が必要だ。
そうなれば投資家も 、為替のヘッジコストを払いながら外国債
券に投資するより、国内債に投資するようになるなど 、投資行
動にも変化が生じるだろう 。日本企業の成長期待が高まれば、
海外投資家からの日本株や社債への投資も増加するなど 、

結果的に円高トレンドが促され、 対外的な実質購買力が高ま
るだろう 。反対に最大のリスクは、 サナエノミクスが日銀の低
金利政策に頼った積極財政に傾くことで 、その場合は円安を
伴った一段の長期金利上昇となりかねない。
為替相場展望
チーフアナリスト 尾河眞樹の視点
7
尾河 眞樹
ゴールデンウィークは単独の円買い介入か
今こそ重要な日米連携
執行役員
チーフアナリスト
（図表）日本の消費者物価指数とドル円相場
注：消費者物価指数は消費税の影響を除く、出所：総務省、Bloomberg、SFGI
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
-5
-3
-1
1
3
5
2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024
CPI（総合・左軸）
CPI（食品・エネルギーを除く・左軸）
ドル円（右軸）
(%)
(１ドル＝円）
安倍政権発足 高市政権発足
・大胆な金融緩和
・機動的な財政政策
・成長戦略
・利上げに慎重姿勢？
・責任ある積極財政
・総合的な国力の強化

===== Page 13 =====

対円レート 対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
2026年5月号
対ドルレート
対円レート
対ドルレート
対円レート
米ドル
ユーロ
ポンド
豪ドル
NZドル
加ドル
ブラジル
レアル
1カ月 3カ月 コメント
引き続き、エネルギー自給率の高いブラジル
レアルは足元の中東情勢の下でも買われや
すい。とはいえ、中東不安が後退し市場のリス
ク許容度が回復すれば、さらに追い風が吹こ
う。ただし、国内の政治リスクは残る。
引き続き、足下の原油高は産油国通貨・カナ
ダドルのサポート要因。ただし、今後開始され
るUSMCA交渉において、米国との貿易関係
悪化懸念が強まればこれは下押し圧力に。
市場は5月27日の利上げを五分五分で織り込

んでいるが、消費者・企業ともに信頼感指数
が急速に悪化する中で、NZ中銀が利上げを
急がない可能性もある。利上げ期待後退なら
NZドルには重石に。
RBAはインフレ加速と景気下振れのリスクを
両睨みしており、当面の金利据え置きを示唆
しているが、市場では6月の追加利上げ期待
が残存するなど見方に乖離もある。物価と景
況感関連指標が当面は重要か。
BOEはインフレへの警戒を強めるも 、インフレ
見通しはメインシナリオを示さず 、予断を許さ
ない姿勢を強調。 景気悪化にもかかわらず引
き締め的な金融政策や、 財政悪化への懸念
が、ポンドの重石に。
停戦合意への期待がユーロを下支えする一
方、総合PMIが50を下回るなど 、景況感の悪
化が重石となっている 。対円では介入への警
戒感が上値を抑えるも、底堅い展開を予想。
1.1500 - 1.1900 1.1300 - 1.2000
中東情勢の動向が目下のところ焦点だが、
徐々に相場の反応は鈍くなりつつある。目先
は乱高下継続と見るが、徐々に日米のファン

ダメンタルズ及び金融政策の行方に関心シフ
トか。
152.60 – 160.00 152.00 -161.00
為替見通し概略
8
182.00 - 188.00 180.00 - 192.00
1.3300 – 1.3800 1.3000 – 1.3800
210.00 – 216.00 205.00 – 220.00
0.7080 – 0.7320 0.6950 – 0.7400
111.00 – 115.20 109.00 – 118.00
0.5850 – 0.6050 0.5780 – 0.6120
92.00 – 95.00 90.00 – 96.00
1.3550 -1.3850 1.3480 -1.3950
113.50 – 116.50 112.70 – 117.50
4.800 – 5.100 4.700 – 5.300
31.00 – 32.60 30.50 – 33.00
南ア
ランド
16.100 – 16.900 15.800 – 17.300
9.250 – 9.750 9.100 – 9.800

4月のエネルギー価格改定により、CPIの伸び
が今後加速する可能性がある上、時限的な燃
料税減税措置のために財政悪化懸念も台頭。
また大統領弾劾リスクも再浮上している。これ
らが今後南アランドの重石になる可能性も。

===== Page 14 =====

2026年5月号
74
76
78
80
82
102
103
104
105
106
107
2026/01 2026/02 2026/03 2026/04 2026/05
ドル（左軸） 円(右軸）
トランプ大統領、パウエルFRB
議長の刑事捜査示唆（1/11）
トランプ大統領、グリーン
ランド領有反対8カ国へ
の関税示唆（1/18）
第二次高市政
権発足（2/18）
高市首相が追加利上
げに難色、との報道
（2/24）
米国のイラン武
力攻撃（2/28）
日米協調レートチェックと
見られる動き（1/23）
衆院解
散報道
（1/9）
米国とイラン、2週
間の停戦合意
（4/7）
米国の停戦案へのイランの回答
に米「気に入らない」（5/10）
政府・日銀による
円買い・ドル売り
介入（4/30）
154
156
158
160
-1.6
-1.2
-0.8
-0.4
0.0
0.4
0.8
1.2
1.6
2.0
2.4
2.8
3.2
3.6
4.0
100
105
110
115
120

125
130
135
140
145
150
155
160
165
170
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
ドル円（左軸）
日米実質金利差（10年・右軸）
（1ドル＝円） （％）
当社予想
(四半期末値）
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
2025/05 2025/07 2025/09 2025/11 2026/01 2026/03 2026/05
VIX指数（左軸）
ドルインデックス(右軸）
3月、米国とイランの武力衝突をきっかけに 、地政学リスクを
意識した 「有事のドル買い 」、そして米国のインフレ再加速懸
念を背景とする利下げ観測の後退によってドル高が進行。 ド
ル円は大幅に上昇した 。しかし、4月に入ると一転してドル安
が進んだ。きっかけとなったのは、4月7日に米国とイランの間
で2週間の停戦合意が成立したことだ （翌8日に発効 ）。その
後の交渉は膠着状態となり 、4月半ば以降は交渉の進展期

待が浮き沈みする中でドルが小幅に動く状態が続いている
（図表1）。一方、円は4月半ばに、日銀の4月利上げ観測が後
退したことで円安が進行。 一巡後は本邦政府・ 日銀による円
買い・ドル売り介入への警戒感が燻る中で 、底堅い状況が続
いた。もっとも、4月30日についに実弾介入が入ったことで、一
旦は円買いが強まり 、ドル円は5 月に入ってから本稿執筆時
点にかけて、155円ちょうど付近から157円台で推移している。
当面のドル円の方向感について 、主に軸となるのは ①中東
情勢、②日本の金融政策、③米国の金融政策の3点と考える。
①については、米国とイランの協議の進展が見られるかがカ
ギとなる。ただ、トランプ大統領が中間選挙を睨んでオバマ政
権時のイラン核合意以上の成果を求め続ける限り 、「合意」
は遠ざかると考えられる 。もし 、「核」の部分を脇において 、
「ホルムズ海峡の安全な通航」 について合意する流れになれ
ば、これまで発生した 「有事のドル買い 」の一段の巻き戻しが
期待できよう 。ただ、事態が膠着し続けたとしても 、すでに市

場も足元の停戦状態に慣れつつあり 、エネルギーの供給も
「ホルムズ海峡通航以外」 の供給を増やす動きも見られてい
る。すでに恐怖指数で知られる VIX指数は警戒水準である 20
を下回っており 、ドルインデックスも開戦後の上げ幅を縮小し
た（図表2）。交渉停滞が長期化する場合、 さらに関連報道へ
の相場の反応が小さくなっていくと予想する。
一方、 ②については 、日銀の追加利上げが円高圧力になる
ことが期待できるが、 市場が織り込んでいる部分も多く、 円高
圧力は限定的なものに止まると見る 。③については、当面の
ところ政策変更期待が市場から消えてしまっている状態。 こ
れがどう復活していくかが焦点になる 。ウォーシュ次期FRB議
長が初めて公式の場に立つ 18‐19日のG7財務相・ 中銀総裁
会議には注目したい 。なお、①について、停戦解除で武力衝
突が再開する場合、 「有事のドル買い 」でドル円は急騰リスク
があるが 、その場合は再度の政府・ 日銀の円買い介入がブ
レーキになると見る 。ただ、2022年・2024年の介入の際と同

様に、こうした介入はドル円の水準を押し下げるような効果は
期待しにくい 。当社は、こうした状況下で 、ドル円は当面乱高
下しつつも、相場が徐々に落ち着きを取り戻すとみており 、図
表3の通り見通しを維持する。
中東情勢の「転換」待ちの相場へ
日米金融政策は重要だが材料が出るのには時間が必要か
為替相場見通し 米ドル
■図表1：ドルと円の名目実効為替レートの推移
9
■図表3：ドル円と日米実質金利差
石川 久美子
■図表2：恐怖指数（VIX）とドルインデックス
出所：Bloomberg、SFGI
出所：Bloomberg、SFGI
出所：Bloomberg
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト

===== Page 15 =====

2026年5月号
出所：ECB、Macrobond
中東情勢への懸念から 、3月中旬には対ドルで昨年 8月以来
の安値水準まで下落したユーロだが、 米国・イランの停戦合
意への期待から 4月中旬以降は反発 。ただ、1.18ドルでの滞
空時間は短く、 上値の重さも見られている 。一方、対円では
原油高による日本の経常収支悪化への懸念などから高値圏
での推移が継続。 一時は本邦当局による円買い介入の影響
で下押しする場面も見られたが 、下落幅は限定的で 、180円
台で安定的に推移している（図表1）。
欧州中銀（ ECB）は4月30日の理事会で 、市場予想通り政策
金利の据え置きを決定した 。ECBは中東情勢がインフレと景
気に及ぼす影響が大きくなり 、3月に策定したシナリオで見る
とベースラインシナリオから離れつつあることから 、利上げの
可能性についても議論したという 。ただ、最終的には不確実
性の高い中で、次回6月の理事会までの情報を待ち 、今回は
政策金利を据え置くことで一致した。
利上げの要否は、 足元の原油価格上昇によるコストプッシュ

インフレが 、2022年のように賃金に波及し 、「二次的影響」 を
及ぼすか次第だが、ECBは現状その可能性は高くないと見て
いるようだ。実際、足元で短期的なインフレ期待は上昇してい
るものの、 長期期待インフレは安定的に推移している （p.5ご
参照）。また、5月6日に発表された最新の Wage Trackerにお
いても、将来の賃金上昇率は概ね2.6％程度で安定的に推移
する予測が示された（図表2）。
ECBの慎重な判断の背景には、 景気の弱さに加え 、過去の
反省もありそうだ 。2011年、当時のトリシェ総裁は、 原油高な
どが「二次的影響」を及ぼす可能性を警戒し、計50bpの「予防
的利上げ」を実施したが、 その後急激な景気悪化に伴い 、同
年にドラギ氏が総裁に就任すると 、年末までに50bpの利下げ
を行い、利上げを巻き戻したという経緯がある 。ラガルド総裁
も記者会見の中で 、当時を「 早すぎるリスク 」の例として取り
上げている 。足元ではユーロ圏の総合PMI が50を割り込み、

独ZEW景気期待指数も急激に悪化する中、 尚早な利上げは
当時のトラウマを想起させる 。OIS市場においては6 月の利上
げは8割以上織り込まれているが、 理事会までに 「二次的影
響」の明確な兆候が認められない限り 、利上げが実施される
可能性は低いとみる。
もっとも、利上げが実施されなかった場合でも 、ユーロが急落
する可能性は低い 。ユーロ相場はユーロ圏の景況感に左右
される状況が続いており 、3月以降、利上げ期待が高まる局
面ではむしろユーロ売り圧力が強まる逆相関のような様相を
呈している（図表3）。中東情勢は予断を許さないが、 米国とイ
ランが戦闘終結の合意に至れば、 一旦は対ドルで上昇する
見込み。ただ、その後景気の弱さに意識が向かえば、 上値は
重い展開が予想される。
ECBは慎重姿勢を維持
景況感次第のユーロ相場が続く
為替相場見通し ユーロ
10
■図表2：ユーロ圏妥結賃金・Wage Tracker（前年比）
出所：Bloomberg、Macrobond
■図表3：ユーロ名目実効為替レート・ECB12月までの利上げ期待

■図表1：ユーロドル・ユーロ円（日足）
出所：Bloomberg、Macrobond
森本 淳太郎
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
予測

===== Page 16 =====

2026年5月号
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
（％）
BOE2月予測
実績値
4月予測C
4月予測B
4月予測A
米・イスラエルによるイラン攻撃後 、一時は対ドルで昨年12月
2日以来の1.31ドル台をつける場面も見られたポンドだが 、そ
の後は停戦合意への期待などから持ち直している 。もっとも、
1.36ドル台では売り圧力が強まるなど 、中東情勢への警戒感
が燻る中で 、上値の重さも見られる 。一方、対円では本邦政
府・日銀による円買いの実弾介入があったにもかかわらず 堅
調地合いが続いている（図表1）。
英中銀（BOE）は4月30日の金融政策委員会（ MPC）で、8対1
で政策金利の据え置きを決定した 。ピル氏のみ 、イラン紛争
を要因としたエネルギー価格の上昇が賃金への「 二次的影
響」を及ぼす可能性を警戒し、25bpの利上げを主張した。

四半期ごとに発表される金融政策報告において 、インフレ見
通しは不確実性が高い状況下、 メインシナリオは示されず 、
代わって3つのケース別シナリオが提示された （図表2）。シナ
リオAは、エネルギー価格は足元の先物価格に沿って推移し 、
「二次的影響」は発生しない想定。 シナリオBはエネルギー価
格は最初の半年はA と同様で、その後はシナリオAを上回り、
「二次的影響」 は軽微の想定 。シナリオCは資源価格が急騰
後高止まりし、「二次的影響」も深刻化する想定だ。
いずれのシナリオでも、2月時点の予測は大きく上回る見通し
だが、それにもかかわらず今回のMPC で利上げが見送られ
た背景にあるのは、 景気悪化への懸念だ 。BOE全体では、
「二次的影響」 は経済活動の低迷により相殺されるとの見解
で概ね一致し、実体経済の弱さにも配慮した上で政策金利の
据え置きが決定された。金融政策報告においても、シナリオA
やベイリー総裁が最も可能性が高いとみるシナリオ Bでは、イ
ンフレ率は2028年前後には2 ％まで低下すると予測されてい

る（再掲図表2）。資源価格の上昇幅は限定的であること 、金
融環境は引き締め的であること 、労働市場は軟化しつつある
ことから、現時点ではシナリオ Cのような極端なシナリオが実
現する可能性は低いとの見方がBOEの総意だ。
もっとも 、ポンド相場に影響を及ぼすのは、 物価や金融政策
以上に政局不安である可能性もある 。与党・労働党は5月7日
に実施された地方選で大幅に議席を減らし 、右派ポピュリズ
ム政党のReform UKや緑の党が躍進した 。こうした中 、労働
党内でもスターマー首相の退陣論が強まっており 、政局不安
が高まっている 。労働党と共に 、二大政党の保守党も大きく
議席を減らしており 、国民のポピュリズムへの傾倒は財政規
律の悪化懸念に繋がる 。英国の超長期債利回りは主要国の
中でも高水準だが、 政局不安が高まる中で 、今年に入り一段
と上昇している （図表3）。米英の金利差拡大にも関わらずポ
ンドドルの上値は重く 、こうした 「悪い金利上昇 」が続く限り 、
ポンドの下押し圧力は続きそうだ 。政局不安と財政規律への

懸念は、今後も注目材料となろう。
BOEの「二次的影響」への警戒は限定的
政局不安にも要注意
為替相場見通し 英ポンド
11
森本 淳太郎
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
出所：Bloomberg、Macrobond
■図表2：英消費者物価指数（前年比）
出所：BOE、Bloomberg
■図表3：各国30年債利回り
■図表1：ポンドドル・ポンド円（日足）
出所：Bloomberg、Macrobond

===== Page 17 =====

2026年5月号
0.63
0.64
0.65
0.66
0.67
0.68
0.69
0.70
0.71
0.72
0.73
90
92
94
96
98
100
102
104
106
108
110
112
114
116
2025/6 2025/8 2025/10 2025/12 2026/2 2026/4
対円（左軸）
対ドル（右軸）
（円） （米ドル）
4月以降、豪ドル相場は概ね堅調に推移している 。2月末に勃
発した米国・イスラエルとイランとの戦争によって 3月は「有事
のドル買い 」などに絡む米ドル全面高の中で豪ドルは急落し
たが、4月に入り、米国とイランの間で停戦となったことで 「有
事のドル買い」が巻き戻された 。なお、対円では4月末に本邦
政府・日銀による円買い ・ドル売り介入と見られる動きにより 、
大きく水準を下げる場面が見られた 。4月以降の主要な資源
国・新興国の通貨を見ると 、豪ドルはブラジルレアルやノル
ウェークローネなどの産油国通貨に次いで買われている 。ブ

ラジルやノルウェーがエネルギーをほぼ自給できているのに
対し、豪州は石油製品の90％ を輸入に頼っており 、中東情勢
の影響を強く受ける点では弱い 。ただ、そうは言っても原油・
石炭・天然ガス・ウランなどエネルギー資源を豊富に産出し 、
輸出できている面が評価されていると考えられる 。加えて、豪
中銀（RBA）が他の主要国に先駆けて利上げフェーズに入っ
ていることも追い風になっている模様。
RBAは5月5日、2月・3月に続き 、3会合連続で25bp利上げを
発表。5月会合に関しては、利上げが8対1で決定されており、
前回（5対4で決定） よりも理事会がタカ派に傾斜している 。ブ
ロックRBA総裁はここまでの利上げによって 、「我々は今 、イ
ンフレと 、戦争が続いた場合の景気下振れという両面のリス
クに目を配る余地のある局面にある」などとコメントし、当面は
様子見の姿勢であることを示した 。実際、同時発表の経済見
通しにおいて、RBAは6月までは金利据え置きを示唆している。
ただ、年後半には2 回の利上げを見据えており 、金利先高感

は残る（図表2）。他方、実質GDP成長率は見通し期間（ 2028
年6月まで）にわたって下方修正されており 、景気についても
厳しい見方だ 。足下、NAB企業景況感調査を見ると 、現状を
示す「企業景況感」はさほど悪化していない （図表３）。PMI等、
他の企業景況感指標も 3月に悪化するも 4月に50より上の水
準に戻した 。しかし、NAB景況感調査のサブ指数における仕
入れ価格は急騰し 、販売価格も上昇している 。一方、雇用コ
ストは低い状態。 さらに、受注・輸出売上を筆頭に 、ほとんど
の項目が急速に悪化しており 、先行指標のNAB 「企業信頼
感」は急激に悪化している。戦争長期化となれば、個人・企業
の悪化は避けられないだろう。
今後のRBAは、物価関連指標及び景況感関連指標を両睨み
で、インフレと景気下振れの両リスクを推しはかる流れになる
だろう 。当面、 中東情勢に絡むリスク許容度の拡大 ・縮小局
面では、引き続きエネルギー面のファンダメンタルズの強さが
評価され、比較的他の通貨よりも豪ドルが強い状態が続く可

能性はあるが、今後、景況感の弱さが顕著に出て、利上げが
控えられる可能性が高まれば、 豪ドルの 「過大評価 」が修正
されることも起こり得る 。6月の利上げ期待がやや残っている
こともあり、期待の巻き戻しには警戒が必要と見る。
為替相場見通し 豪ドル
12
出所：NAB
■図表2：豪州のCPI（前年比）と政策金利
■図表1：豪ドルチャート
出所：Bloomberg、SFGI
※グレーゾーンはインフレ目標
出所：豪統計局、RBA、Bloomberg、SFGI
■図表3：NAB企業景況感および企業信頼感
豪中銀は利上げするも当面様子見か
インフレ加速と景況感悪化のリスクを両睨みする展開に
石川 久美子
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028
CPI総合(前年比）
CPI刈込平均（前年比）
政策金利
ＲＢＡ見通し（5月時点）
（％）
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
2022/01 2023/01 2024/01 2025/01 2026/01

企業景況感 企業信頼感

===== Page 18 =====

2026年5月号
金融・経済見通し
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ
13
経済見通し
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
実質GDP 0.5 2.0 1.6 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
コアPCEデフレータ 2.9 3.1 3.2 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.2 3.1 2.4
実質GDP 1.3 2.0 0.1 0.3 0.6 0.8 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.7
コアCPI 2.8 1.8 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 2.3 2.1
実質GDP 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.2 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.5 0.7 1.2
CPI 2.1 2.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 2.7 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.0 2.8 2.0
実質GDP 4.5 5.0 4.6 4.7 4.7 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.7 4.4

CPI 0.6 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9
注: 実質GDPは、米国・日本・ユーロ圏は前期比年率、中国は前年比。物価は前年比。日本のコアCPIは消費増税の影響除く
金利見通し
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
政策金利 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.25～3.50 3.25～3.50 3.25～3.50 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.75～4.00 3.75～4.00 3.25～3.50 3.75～4.00
10年債利回り 4.17 4.32 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.55 4.60 4.60 4.65 4.50 4.60
政策金利 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 1.25 1.25 1.50 1.50 1.75 1.75 1.25 1.75
10年債利回り 2.07 2.35 2.50 2.51 2.53 2.55 2.57 2.59 2.60 2.60 2.53 2.60

政策金利 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00
独10年債利回り 2.85 3.04 3.10 3.15 3.20 3.25 3.25 3.30 3.30 3.35 3.20 3.30
中国 政策金利 3.00 3.00 2.90 2.90 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80
注: 政策金利は、米国がFF金利、日本が政策金利残高への適用金利、ユーロ圏は預金ファシリティ金利、中国は貸出基準金利。期末値
為替見通し
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
米ドル ドル円 156 157 154 156 158 160 160 160 160 160 158 160
ユーロ円 183 182 179 178 177 176 173 176 179 182 177 176

ユーロドル 1.17 1.16 1.16 1.14 1.12 1.10 1.08 1.10 1.12 1.14 1.12 1.10
ポンド円 211 207 203 200 198 195 190 197 202 208 198 195
ポンドドル 1.35 1.32 1.32 1.28 1.25 1.22 1.19 1.23 1.26 1.30 1.25 1.22
豪ドル円 103 113 111 115 120 115 117 118 120 122 120 115
豪ドル米ドル 0.66 0.72 0.72 0.74 0.76 0.72 0.73 0.74 0.75 0.76 0.76 0.72
2027年
2027年
2027年
2026年
2026年
2026年
2025年
2025年 2026年 2027年
2026年 2027年
2026年 2027年
ポンド
（％）
日本
米国
ユーロ圏
注: 全て期末値
中国
ユーロ圏
日本
米国
（％）
ユーロ
豪ドル
2025年

===== Page 19 =====

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ 金融市場調査部・研究員紹介
尾河 眞樹 （おがわ まき）
執行役員（金融市場調査部担当）
チーフアナリスト
ファースト ・ シカゴ銀行 、JP モルガン ・
チェース銀行などの為替ディーラーを経
て、ソニー財務部にて為替リスクヘッジと
市場調査に従事。 その後シティバンク銀
行（現SMBC信託銀行） で個人金融部門
の投資調査企画部長として 、金融市場
の調査・ 分析を担当 。2016年8月より当
社執行役員。 テレビ東京「Newsモーニン
グサテライト 」、日経CNBC などにレギュ
ラー出演し、金融市場の解説を行ってい
る。主な著書に 『為替ってこんなに面白
い！（2024年幻冬舎新書） 』、『〈最新版〉
本当にわかる為替相場 （2023年日本実
業出版社）』などがある。ソニー銀行株式
会社取締役、 ウェルスナビ株式会社顧
問。人生投資アカデミー® 学長。
井上 哲也 （いのうえ てつや）
金融市場調査部
シニアフェロー エグゼクティブエコノミスト
日本銀行で主として国際金融市場やそ

れに関する政策、 2回の役員秘書（ 福井
副総裁、植田審議委員 ）、IT革命の影響
に関する研究等を行った後、 野村総合
研究所で主要国の金融政策 、デジタル
通貨、 地域金融の活性化等に関する調
査を行い 、成果を多数の報告書等の形
で公表。2026年4月より現職。テレビ出演
や経済メディアへの寄稿を行っているほ
か、主な著書に 『異次元緩和 （2013年日
経BP）』、『デジタル円（2020年日経BP）』、
『CBDCとステーブルコインの衝撃（ 2026
年日経BP）』がある。1985年東京大学経
済学部卒、 1992年イェール大学大学院
経済学修士。
渡辺 浩志 （わたなべ ひろし）
金融市場調査部長 チーフエコノミスト
1999年に大和総研に入社し 、経済調査
部にてエコノミストとしてのキャリアをス
タート 。2006年～2008 年は内閣府政策
統括官室（ 経済財政分析 ・総括担当） へ
出向し、『経済財政白書』等の執筆を行う。
2011年からはSMBC 日興証券金融経済
調査部および株式調査部にて機関投資

家向けの経済分析 ・情報発信に従事。
2017年1月より当社 。内外のマクロ経済
についての調査 ・分析業務を担当。 ロジ
カルかつデータの裏付けを重視した分析
を行っている。
石川 久美子 （いしかわ くみこ）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
商品先物専門紙での貴金属および外国
為替担当の編集記者を経て、2009年4月
に外為どっとコムに入社し 、外為どっとコ
ム総合研究所の立ち上げに参画。同年6
月から同社研究員として、外国為替相場
について調査 ・分析を行う 。2016年11月
より現職。外国為替市場に関するレポー
ト執筆の他、 テレビ東京 「Newsモーニン
グサテライト 」など多数のメディアに出演
し、金融市場の解説を行う 。資源国・ 新
興国通貨に強い 。著書に『円安はいつま
で続くのか 為替で世界を読む （2025年
マイナビ新書 ）』がある。Xでの情報発信
（@KumiIshikawa_FX）も行っている。
森本 淳太郎 （もりもと じゅんたろう）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト

みずほフィナンシャルグループにて企画
業務、法人営業などを経験した後、 2019
年8月より現職 。外国為替市場の調査・
分析業務、 特にユーロやポンド 、スイス
フランなどの欧州通貨を専門に担当。 テ
レビ東京 「Newsモーニングサテライト 」、
TOKYO MX 「Stock Voice 東京マーケッ
トワイド 」、日経CNBC 「朝エクスプレス」
「 GINZA CROSSING Talk マーケット
ニュース」などにレギュラー出演し 、金融
市場の解説を行っている 。2013年東京
大学経済学部卒。
宮嶋 貴之 （みやじま たかゆき）
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
2009年にみずほ総合研究所（ 当時） 入
社以来 、一貫してエコノミストとしてマク
ロ経済調査を担当。 2011年～2013 年は
内閣府（経済財政分析担当） へ出向。官
庁エコノミストとして 『経済財政白書』 、
『月例経済報告』 等を担当。 2021年4月
より現職。2025年から景気循環学会・ 理
事。主な著書（ 全て共著 ）は、『TPP-日

台加盟の影響と展望』（国立台湾大学出
版中心）、『激震 原油安経済』（日経BP）。
日本経済・債券市場、中国などのアジア
情勢が専門、 セクターは不動産 、観光、
半導体等を分析。

===== Page 20 =====

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ
本レポートについてのご注意
 ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社は、ソニー生命保険株式会社、ソニー損害保険株式会社、ソニー銀行株式会社の３社を中核とする金融持株会社です。
 当社グループの各事業は、独自性のある事業モデルを構築し、合理的かつ利便性の高い商品・サービスを個人のお客さまに提供しています。
 当社グループの基本情報、グループ各社の事業内容などにつきましては、当社ホームページでご覧いただけます。
https://www.sonyfg.co.jp
介護事業
銀行事業
損害保険事業
生命保険事業
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
（ベンチャーキャピタル事業)
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ (株)

===== Page 21 =====

2026/5/13
1
issue date 2026/5/13
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社
金融市場調査部ソニーフィナンシャルグループ(株)
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
実質GDP 0.5 2.0 1.6 1.9 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
コアPCEデフレータ 2.9 3.1 3.2 3.0 2.9 2.6 2.4 2.4 2.3 2.2 3.1 2.4
実質GDP 1.3 2.0 0.1 0.3 0.6 0.8 1.1 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.6 0.7
コアCPI 2.8 1.8 2.4 2.6 2.6 2.3 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 2.3 2.1
実質GDP 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.8 1.2 1.2 1.4 1.5 1.5 1.5 0.7 1.2
CPI 2.1 2.1 3.1 3.0 3.0 2.7 1.6 1.8 2.0 2.0 2.8 2.0

実質GDP 4.5 5.0 4.6 4.7 4.7 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.7 4.4
CPI 0.6 0.8 0.9 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9 0.9
注: 実質GDPは、米国・日本・ユーロ圏は前期比年率、中国は前年比。物価は前年比。日本のコアCPIは消費増税の影響除く
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
政策金利 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.25～3.50 3.25～3.50 3.25～3.50 3.50～3.75 3.50～3.75 3.75～4.00 3.75～4.00 3.25～3.50 3.75～4.00
10年債利回り 4.17 4.32 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.55 4.60 4.60 4.65 4.50 4.60
政策金利 0.75 0.75 1.00 1.00 1.25 1.25 1.50 1.50 1.75 1.75 1.25 1.75

10年債利回り 2.07 2.35 2.50 2.51 2.53 2.55 2.57 2.59 2.60 2.60 2.53 2.60
政策金利 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00 2.00
独10年債利回り 2.85 3.04 3.10 3.15 3.20 3.25 3.25 3.30 3.30 3.35 3.20 3.30
中国 政策金利 3.00 3.00 2.90 2.90 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80
2028年
10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期 4-6月期 7-9月期 10-12月期 1-3月期
米ドル ドル円 156 157 154 156 158 160 160 160 160 160 158 160
ユーロ円 183 182 179 178 177 176 173 176 179 182 177 179

ユーロドル 1.17 1.16 1.16 1.14 1.12 1.10 1.08 1.10 1.12 1.14 1.12 1.12
ポンド円 211 207 203 200 198 195 190 197 202 208 198 202
ポンドドル 1.35 1.32 1.32 1.28 1.25 1.22 1.19 1.23 1.26 1.30 1.25 1.26
豪ドル円 103 113 111 115 120 115 117 118 120 122 120 120
豪ドル米ドル 0.66 0.72 0.72 0.74 0.76 0.72 0.73 0.74 0.75 0.76 0.76 0.75
2027年
2027年
2027年
2026年
2026年
2026年
2026年 2027年
2026年 2027年
2026年 2027年2025年
2025年
注:全て期末値　　出所：SFGI
（％）
米国
日本
米国
日本
ユーロ圏
豪ドル
ユーロ
ポンド
注: 政策金利は、米国がFF金利、日本が政策金利残高への適用金利、ユーロ圏は預金ファシリティ金利、中国は貸出基準金利。全て期末値

ユーロ圏
経
済
見
通
し
金
利
見
通
し
中国
（％）
為
替
見
通
し
2025年

===== Page 22 =====

ソニーフィナンシャルグループ 金融市場調査部・研究員紹介
尾河 眞樹 （おがわ まき）
執行役員（金融市場調査部担当） チーフアナリスト
ファースト・シカゴ銀行、JPモルガン・チェース銀行などの為替ディーラーを経て、ソニー財務部にて為替リスクヘッジと市場調査に従事。その後シティバンク銀行（現SMBC
信託銀行） で個人金融部門の投資調査企画部長として 、金融市場の調査・ 分析を担当。2016年8月より当社執行役員。 テレビ東京 「Newsモーニングサテライト 」、日経
CNBCなどにレギュラー出演し、金融市場の解説を行っている。主な著書に『為替ってこんなに面白い！（2024年幻冬舎新書）』、『〈最新版〉本当にわかる為替相場（2023年
日本実業出版社）』などがある。ソニー銀行株式会社取締役、ウェルスナビ株式会社顧問。人生投資アカデミー® 学長。
井上 哲也 （いのうえ てつや）
金融市場調査部 シニアフェロー エグゼクティブエコノミスト
日本銀行で主として国際金融市場やそれに関する政策、2回の役員秘書（福井副総裁、植田審議委員）、IT革命の影響に関する研究等を行った後、野村総合研究所で主

要国の金融政策、デジタル通貨、地域金融の活性化等に関する調査を行い、成果を多数の報告書等の形で公表。2026年4月より現職。テレビ出演や経済メディアへの寄
稿を行っているほか、主な著書に『異次元緩和（2013年日経BP）』、『デジタル円（2020年日経BP）』、『CBDCとステーブルコインの衝撃（2026年日経BP）』がある。1985年東
京大学経済学部卒、1992年イェール大学大学院経済学修士。
渡辺 浩志 （わたなべ ひろし）
金融市場調査部長 チーフエコノミスト
1999年に大和総研に入社し、経済調査部にてエコノミストとしてのキャリアをスタート。2006年～2008年は内閣府政策統括官室（経済財政分析・総括担当）へ出向し、『経済
財政白書』等の執筆を行う。2011年からはSMBC日興証券金融経済調査部および株式調査部にて機関投資家向けの経済分析・情報発信に従事。2017年1月より当社。内
外のマクロ経済についての調査・分析業務を担当。ロジカルかつデータの裏付けを重視した分析を行っている。

石川 久美子 （いしかわ くみこ）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
森本 淳太郎 （もりもと じゅんたろう）
金融市場調査部 シニアアナリスト
みずほフィナンシャルグループにて企画業務、法人営業などを経験した後、2019年8月より現職。外国為替市場の調査・分析業務、特にユーロやポンド、スイスフランなどの
欧州通貨を専門に担当。テレビ東京「Newsモーニングサテライト」、TOKYO MX 「Stock Voice 東京マーケットワイド」、日経CNBC「朝エクスプレス」「GINZA CROSSING Talk
マーケットニュース」などにレギュラー出演し、金融市場の解説を行っている。2013年東京大学経済学部卒。
宮嶋 貴之 （みやじま たかゆき）
金融市場調査部 シニアエコノミスト
2009年にみずほ総合研究所（当時）入社以来、一貫してエコノミストとしてマクロ経済調査を担当。 2011年～2013年は内閣府（経済財政分析担当）へ出向 。官庁エコノミスト
として『経済財政白書』、『月例経済報告』等を担当。2021年4月より現職。2025年から景気循環学会・ 理事。主な著書（全て共著）は、『TPP-日台加盟の影響と展望』 （国立

台湾大学出版中心）、『激震 原油安経済』（日経BP）。日本経済・債券市場、中国などのアジア情勢が専門、セクターは不動産、観光、半導体等を分析。
商品先物専門紙での貴金属および外国為替担当の編集記者を経て、2009年4月に外為どっとコムに入社し、外為どっとコム総合研究所の立ち上げに参画。同年6月から同社研
究員として、外国為替相場について調査・分析を行う。2016年11月より現職。外国為替市場に関するレポート執筆の他、テレビ東京「Newsモーニングサテライト」など多数のメディ
アに出演し 、金融市場の解説を行う 。資源国 ・新興国通貨に強い 。著書に 『円安はいつまで続くのか 為替で世界を読む （2025年マイナビ新書 ）』がある 。Xでの情報発信
（@KumiIshikawa_FX）も行っている。

===== Page 23 =====

く、特定の金融商品の推奨や売買申し込み、投資の勧誘等を目的としたものでもありません。
 本レポートに掲載された内容は、本レポートの発行時点における投資環境やこれに関する当社の見解や予測を紹介するものであり 、その内容は変更又は修正されることがありますが、当社はかかる変更等を行い又はその変更等の
内容を報告する義務を負わないものといたします。本レポートに記載された情報は、公的に入手可能な情報ですが、当社がその正確性・信頼性・完全性・妥当性等を保証するものではありません。本レポート中のグラフ、数値等は将来
の予測値を含むものであり、実際と異なる場合があります。
 本レポート中のいかなる内容も、将来の投資環境の変動等を保証するものではなく、かつ、将来の運用成果等を約束するものでもありません。かかる投資環境や相場の変動は、お客様に損失を与える可能性もございます。
 当社は、当社の子会社及び関連会社（以下、「グループ会社」といいます）に対しても本レポートに記載される内容を開示又は提供しており、かかるグループ会社が本レポートの内容を参考に投資決定を行う可能性もあれば、逆に、グ

 ソニーフィナンシャルグループ株式会社は、 ソニー生命保険株式会社 、ソニー損害保険株式会社 、ソニー銀
行株式会社の３社を中核とする金融持株会社です。
 当社グループの各事業は、独自性のある事業モデルを構築し、合理的かつ利便性の高い商品・サービスを個
人のお客さまに提供しています。
 当社グループの基本情報、グループ各社の事業内容などにつきましては、当社ホームページでご覧いただけ
ます。
https://www.sonyfg.co.jp
介護事業
銀行事業
損害保険事業
生命保険事業
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
100%出資
（ベンチャーキャピタル事業)
ソニーフィナンシャルグループ (株)

## 036_WallstreetCN_(Global)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

据沙特消息，伊朗和美国将在 5 ⽉底伊斯兰教朝觐季结束后于巴基斯坦⾸都伊斯兰堡举⾏新
⼀轮谈判。伊朗外交部称，正与阿曼合作，推动制定霍尔⽊兹海峡⻓期安全机制。⽽美以
同盟却因对伊策略爆发 “ 激烈通话 ” ，特朗普⼒求协议停战，以⾊列则陈兵列阵意图进⼀步打
击。
摘要：
美国与伊朗正酝酿于 5 ⽉底举⾏新⼀轮谈判，⽽美国总统特朗普与以⾊列总理内塔尼亚胡在对伊
策略上的分歧却⽇益公开化，这⼀外交与军事的双轨博弈正成为左右中东局势及全球能源市场
的核⼼变量。
据央视新闻，伊朗外交部发⾔⼈巴加埃当地时间 20 ⽇晚间就伊美局势、霍尔⽊兹海峡安全以及
美国对伊施压表态，强调伊朗将在 “ 强烈不信任美国 ” 的情况下继续推进谈判，同时坚决维护国
家利益。
巴加埃表⽰，伊朗当前通过巴基斯坦中间⼈持续与美国进⾏信息交换，德⿊兰的核⼼诉求包括
结束地区冲突、解冻伊朗海外资产，以及停⽌针对伊朗航运的 “ 海上劫掠 ” ⾏为。他称，尽管美⽅
过去⼀年半的⾏为留下负⾯记录，但伊朗仍以 “ 认真和善意 ” 态度推进外交进程，不过对美国保持

“ 强烈且合理的不信任 ” 。
当地时间 20 ⽇，据沙特阿拉伯⽅⾯消息，消息⼈⼠称，伊朗和美国将在 5 ⽉底伊斯兰教朝觐季结
束后于巴基斯坦⾸都伊斯兰堡举⾏新⼀轮谈判。
伊朗外交部发⾔⼈巴加埃当地时间 20 ⽇晚间表⽰，伊朗正与阿曼合作，并协调相关国际专业机
构，推动制定⼀套安全机制，以确保霍尔⽊兹海峡⻓期稳定安全，防⽌任何威胁国家利益的⾏
为发⽣。
他表⽰，伊朗始终是霍尔⽊兹海峡安全航⾏的维护者，并愿与其他沿岸国家合作，制定保障国
际航运安全通⾏的相关协议和机制。他还强调，新的安全机制除涉及航运安全问题外，还应考
虑海上安全成本，以及美国及其盟友在海湾地区军事⾏动对⽣态环境造成的严重破坏。
然⽽，据媒体报道，特朗普与内塔尼亚胡在本周⼆进⾏了⼀次 “ 激烈通话 ” 。以⾊列担忧妥协性
协议将阻碍其持续打击伊朗政权。
盟友步调不⼀：特朗普与内塔尼亚胡 “ 激烈通话 ”
在谈判筹备之际，美国与以⾊列这对核⼼盟友的利益错位正在显现。
据媒体报道，特朗普与内塔尼亚胡在周⼆晚间的通话充满争议。以⾊列⻓期以来对伊朗是否会

遵守拆除核设施及停⽌攻击地区国家的协议持怀疑态度，内塔尼亚胡在周⼆及周⽇的通话中重
申了这⼀⽴场。
特朗普对此并不买账，他告诉内塔尼亚胡，他将继续寻求达成⼀项阻⽌伊朗获得核武器的协
议。这种分歧凸显了两⼈在战争终局上的不同考量：特朗普希望结束这场在本⼟不受欢迎且经
济代价⾼昂的冲突；⽽以⾊列则希望恢复停⽕前的轰炸⾏动，重创其视为⽣存威胁的伊朗政
权。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 2 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
283 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
周三在⾯对记者时，特朗普试图淡化分歧，称与内塔尼亚胡的通话很顺利，并表⽰以⾊列领导
⼈会 “ 做我希望他做的事 ” 。在被问及是否接近对伊朗做出决定时，特朗普回应称⽬前 “ 正处于边
界线上 ” ，并强调伊朗的回应必须是 “100% 好的答案 ” 。
特朗普在周⼀与国家安全团队讨论了针对伊朗的选项。他原本准备下令在周⼆对伊朗发动袭
击，但应海湾国家领导⼈的要求取消了该⾏动。特朗普随后在其社交平台上补充称，他已指⽰
美国军⽅随时准备好，在未能达成可接受协议的情况下， “ 对伊朗发动全⾯、⼤规模的攻击 ” 。
⽬前，以⾊列处于⾼度戒备状态。包括数⼗架停放于本 - 古⾥安国际机场和以⾊列南部空军基地
内的美国加油机在内的军事资产仍驻扎在以⾊列，这是⻓途奔袭伊朗所必需的装备。

限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 3 =====

英伟达管理层在电话会上表⽰，当前需求正在加速，并将 2030 年末年度 AI ⾏业整体开⽀规
模预测，上调⾄ 3 万亿⾄ 4 万亿美元。 “ 智能体 AI” 驱动下⼀波算⼒基础设施建设狂潮，并⾸
次将 CPU 业务作为未来核⼼增⻓引擎推向台前。预计今年 CPU 收⼊有望达到 200 亿美元。
摘要：
受益于 “ 智能体 AI” 时代的爆发，英伟达不仅交出了单季营收 820 亿美元的历史新⾼答卷，更通过
超预期的股东回报计划和瞄准 2000 亿美元全新市场的 CPU 战略，试图向华尔街证明其⾼增⻓的
持续性与⼴阔的想象空间。
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，华尔街⻅闻提及，英伟达公布强劲财季业绩，第⼀季度总营收达到 820 亿美元，同⽐
增⻓ 85% ，环⽐增⻓ 20% 。这已经是英伟达连续第三个季度实现同⽐加速增⻓，以及连续第 14
个季度环⽐增⻓。
公司管理层在电话会上表⽰， “ 智能体 AI” 驱动下⼀波算⼒基础设施建设狂潮，并⾸次将 CPU 业务
作为未来核⼼增⻓引擎推向台前。
英伟达预计今年 CPU 收⼊有望达到 200 亿美元，并表⽰相信公司能够获得⾜够供应以⽀撑持续增

⻓。
公司 CFO Colette Kress 表⽰，公司当前需求正在加速，并将 2030 年末年度 AI ⾏业整体开⽀规模
预测，上调⾄ 3 万亿⾄ 4 万亿美元。
英伟达 CEO ⻩仁勋则预计 Vera Rubin 在整个⽣命周期内都将⾯临供应受限局⾯。
在利润极其充沛的背景下，英伟达宣布新增⾼达 800 亿美元的股票回购授权。同时，季度股息从
每股 0.01 美元⼤幅上调⾄ 0.25 美元。公司计划在今年将 50% 的⾃由现⾦流返还给股东。
“ 需求呈抛物线增⻓ ” ，智能体 AI 成新引擎
在财报电话会上，英伟达 CEO ⻩仁勋直⾔：
需求呈抛物线增⻓。原因很简单，智能体 AI 已经到来。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 4 =====

⻩仁勋指出，⾃ ChatGPT 问世以来，主流 AI 已经从⼀次性推理过渡到逻辑推理，现在⼜进⼊了
“ 智能体 ” 阶段。 AI 不再是可有可⽆，⽽是必需品。他表⽰：
为了应对这种转变， AI 基础设施的建设正在加速。
管理层引⽤分析师预测称， 2027 年超⼤规模数据中⼼（ Hyperscale ）的资本⽀出将超过 1 万亿
美元，⽽到 2030 年末， AI 基础设施的年度⽀出有望达到 3 万亿⾄ 4 万亿美元。
推理份额激增， Rubin 架构下半年接棒
在订单履约和未来业绩指引⽅⾯， CFO Colette Kress 表⽰， GB300 和 VL72 的需求尤为强劲，
标志着公司历史上最快的产品爬坡。
针对市场对其在推理市场份额可能被定制芯⽚（ ASIC/LPX 等）蚕⻝的担忧，⻩仁勋强硬回应：
他指出，随着 Anthropic 等前沿模型公司加⼊英伟达⽣态，公司在推理端的算⼒部署正急剧扩
⼤。
对于基于 SRAM 的定制芯⽚（如 LPX ），⻩仁勋认为其吞吐量和上下⽂处理能⼒较低，他认为：

在下⼀代产品节点上，⻩仁勋宣布：
通过集成七个专⽤芯⽚， Vera Rubin 的推理吞吐量最⾼可达 Blackwell 的 35 倍。对于未来，⻩仁
勋总结道：
全新王牌 Vera CPU ，打开 2000 亿美元市场
本次电话会最⼤的增量信息和想象空间，来⾃于英伟达对 CPU 业务的重磅加码。
⾯对 “ 智能体 AI” 需要⼤量调⽤⼯具、浏览器和进⾏编排调度的特性，单纯的 GPU 已经不够，市场
需要全新的 CPU 架构。⻩仁勋宣布：
词元（ Tokens ）现在是有利可图的。在 AI 时代，计算能⼒就是收⼊和利润。
我们在推理领域的份额正在⾮常、⾮常快地增⻓。
在未来⼀段时间内，它仍将是⼀个⼩众产品（ Niche product ）。
我们将于今年下半年，从 Q3 开始启动 Vera Rubin 的量产出货。 Vera Rubin 在这⼀点上将⽐
Grace Blackwell 更加成功。我能想到的每⼀家前沿模型公司，从⼀开始就会全⾯转向 Vera
Rubin 。
世界正在为智能体 AI 和机器⼈物理 AI 重建计算体系。我们在这⼀刻到来之前就建⽴好了架构，所

以当智能体 AI 到来时，英伟达已经准备好了。它现在真的来了。

===== Page 5 =====

Vera 不仅将作为 Rubin GPU 的配套设备销售，还将作为独⽴ CPU 、存储节点和安全节点出售。
⻩仁勋透露，今年已有望看到近 200 亿美元的独⽴ CPU 总收⼊，这标志着英伟达正准备成为全球
领先的 CPU 供应商。
Vera Rubin 系统将于今年下半年（ Q3 开始）量产出货，其推理吞吐量⽐ Blackwell ⾼出 35 倍。
更改业务指引框架，数据中⼼⾛向多元化
为了让投资者更好地理解业务结构的健康度，英伟达在本次财报中更改了报告框架，将业务划
分为 “ 数据中⼼ ” 和 “ 边缘计算 ” 两⼤平台。
数据中⼼业务（ Q1 营收 750 亿美元）进⼀步细分为 “ 超⼤规模云⼚商（ Hyperscale ） ” 和 “ACIE （ AI
云、⼯业和企业） ” ：
值得注意的是，英伟达未将任何中国数据中⼼计算收⼊计⼊预期。分析认为，该数据回应了市
场此前关于英伟达 “ 过度依赖少数⼏家硅⾕云巨头 ” 的担忧。
⻩仁勋指出，第⼆类市场（ ACIE ）极其分散且庞⼤，代表了未来数百万家企业的需求，⽽英伟

达提供的是最容易租赁、 TCO （总体拥有成本）最优的完整 AI ⼯⼚解决⽅案。
英伟达 2027 财年第⼀财季电话会议实录，全⽂翻译如下（ AI ⼯具辅助）：
Vera CPU 为英伟达打开了⼀个全新的 2000 亿美元的市场，这是我们以前从未涉⾜过的市场。
Hyperscale （ 380 亿美元）：  占据数据中⼼约 50% 的份额，环⽐增⻓ 12% 。
ACIE （ 370 亿美元）：  环⽐增⻓⾼达 31% ，其中 AI 云收⼊同⽐激增两倍以上，主权 AI 收⼊同
⽐增⻓超 80% 。
主持⼈致辞
下午好，我是今天的会议接线员 Sarah 。欢迎参加英伟达第⼀季度业绩电话会议。为防⽌背景噪
⾳⼲扰，所有线路已静⾳。发⾔⼈讲话结束后，将进⾏问答环节。谢谢。现在请 Toshiya Hari 开
始发⾔。
Toshiya Hari （投资者关系与战略财务副总裁）
谢谢，⼤家下午好。欢迎参加英伟达 2027 财年业绩电话会议。今天与我⼀同出席的有英伟达总
裁兼⾸席执⾏官⻩仁勋，以及执⾏副总裁兼⾸席财务官 Colette Kress 。本次电话会议在英伟达

投资者关系⽹站上进⾏⽹络直播，并将提供回放，直⾄我们召开 2027 财年第⼆季度业绩电话会
议。
本次电话会议的内容为英伟达的财产，未经我们事先书⾯同意，不得复制或转录。本次电话会议
中，我们可能会基于当前预期作出前瞻性陈述，这些陈述⾯临多项重⼤⻛险和不确定因素，实际
结果可能与陈述存在重⼤差异。如需了解可能影响我们未来财务业绩和业务的相关因素，请参阅
今⽇业绩发布⽂件、我们最近提交的 10-K 和 10-Q 表格，以及向美国证券交易委员会提交的 8-K 报
告。

===== Page 6 =====

本次电话会议中所有声明均以 2026 年 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇为基准，基于我们⽬前可获取的信息。除法律要求
外，我们不承担更新上述声明的义务。本次电话会议中，我们将讨论⾮ GAAP 财务指标，相关
GAAP 与⾮ GAAP 财务指标的调节表已发布于我们的⽹站 CFO 评论栏⽬中。下⾯我将把发⾔权交
给 Colette 。
Colette Kress （执⾏副总裁兼⾸席财务官）
谢谢 Toshiya 。
本季度我们取得了出⾊业绩，营收、营业利润和⾃由现⾦流均创历史新⾼。总营收为 820 亿美
元，同⽐增⻓ 85% ，环⽐增⻓ 20% 。这是我们连续第三个季度实现同⽐加速增⻓，也是连续第
14 个季度实现环⽐增⻓ —— 考虑到我们制造运营的规模和复杂程度，这⼀成绩尤为难得。
本季度 135 亿美元的环⽐营收增量同样创下历史纪录。我们抓住推理需求的拐点机遇，向多元化
终端客⼾群加速铺开 Blackwell 系统，覆盖超⼤规模云⼚商、模型开发商、 AI 云服务提供商及主
权客⼾。与此同时，本季度我们在研发、⽣态系统投资和股票回购⽅⾯⾼效配置资本，向股东返

还了创纪录的 200 亿美元，并在上游供应链和下游市场⽣态两端同步推进战略投资。这对市场的
⻓期发展和我们的⻓期市场地位⾄关重要。
数据中⼼营收为 750 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 92% ，环⽐增⻓ 21% ，主要受 Blackwell 架构持续强劲需求
驱动。 GB300 和 VL72 在前沿模型构建者和超⼤规模云⼚商中需求尤为强劲，各⽅累计部署的
Blackwell GPU 均已达到数⼗万枚，创下我们公司历史上最快的产品爬坡速度。 Grace Blackwell
是⽬前最快的训练系统，同时也是推理环节单位 token ⽣成成本最低的平台。
我们专为 AI 打造的端到端以太⽹平台 Spectrum X ，规模已超过所有以太⽹同类竞争对⼿的总
和。 InfiniBand 本季度同样表现强劲，在下⼀代 XDR 技术部署的带动下，同⽐增⻓超过 4 倍。针
对前沿模型，数据中⼼算⼒营收为 600 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 77% ；数据中⼼⽹络营收为 150 亿美
元，同⽐接近翻三倍。
在深⼊介绍数据中⼼业务之前，我们希望先向⼤家介绍我们向新汇报框架的转变，新框架能更好

地反映我们当前和未来的增⻓驱动因素。
我们设有两个市场平台：数据中⼼和边缘计算。数据中⼼下设两个⼦市场：超⼤规模
（ Hyperscale ）和 ACIE （涵盖 AI 云、⼯业及企业）。超⼤规模包含来⾃公有云和全球最⼤消费互
联⽹公司的营收； ACIE 则⾯向各⾏业和各国家中多元化的 AI 专⽤数据中⼼及 AI ⼯⼚的增⻓机
遇。边缘计算涵盖⾯向智能体 AI 和物理 AI 的终端设备，包括 PC 、游戏主机、⼯作站、 AI-RAN 基
站、机器⼈及汽⻋。我们已在官⽹发布基于新平台⼝径的过去九个季度营收明细，供⼤家参考。
回到数据中⼼业务，超⼤规模营收为 380 亿美元，约占数据中⼼营收的 50% ，环⽐增⻓ 12% 。
ACIE 营收为 370 亿美元，环⽐增⻓ 31% ，其中 AI 云营收同⽐增⻓超过两倍。客⼾⽅⾯， AI 算⼒容
量的快速建设能⼒显著增强 —— 规模超过 10 兆⽡的合作伙伴数据中⼼在短短⼀年内数量⼏近翻
倍，⽬前已超过 80 个站点。主权营收同⽐增⻓超过 80% ，英伟达 AI 基础设施⽬前已部署于近 40

个国家，覆盖 GDP 总量约 50 万亿美元。
正如本季度业绩所呈现的，我们的客⼾基础多元且持续壮⼤，背后依托的是我们庞⼤的⽣态系统
和已有的装机规模、 CUDA 加速应⽤的⼴度，以及作为最低 token 成本提供商的竞争优势。我们
有充分的条件抓住这⼀远超任何其他 AI 计算平台的市场机遇。
AI 基础设施需求正在以前所未有的速度持续扩张， AI ⼯⼚建设步伐不断加快，英伟达 AI 基础设施
的价值也在持续提升。 H100 的租⽤价格年初⾄今上涨了 20% ， A100 的云端定价涨幅接近 15% 。
得益于我们平台的多功能性以及软件栈带来的持续性能提升，客⼾在其 GPU 折旧期满后仍能持
续产⽣盈利性收⼊。英伟达计算平台庞⼤且值得信赖的市场，是⽀撑整个⽣态系统数千亿美元 AI
基础设施投资的关键基础。

===== Page 7 =====

AI 基础设施建设加速背后有两⼤主要驱动⼒：
第⼀，从搜索和⼴告到推荐系统，再到内容理解，超⼤规模⼚商的⼤型⼯作负载正在持续从
CPU 向 GPU 加速计算迁移。第⼆， AI 原⽣产品和服务的采⽤正在迎来拐点。⾃ ChatGPT 问世以
来，主流 AI 已经历了从单次推理到推理增强、再到如今智能体化的演进。 AI 已不再是锦上添花，
⽽是在所有⾏业和岗位提升⽣产⼒的必要⼯具。这正在推动 AI 全栈各层 —— 包括能源、芯⽚、基
础设施、模型和应⽤ —— 的营收加速增⻓。
模型层的增⻓尤为亮眼， Anthropic 和 OpenAI 势头强劲、持续提速，其中⾃ GPT-5.5 发布以来，
OpenAI Codex 的爆发式增⻓尤为突出。分析师⽬前预测超⼤规模⼚商 2027 年资本⽀出将超过 1
万亿美元，随着智能体 AI 开始向各⾏业全⾯渗透， AI 基础设施⽀出有望在本⼗年末达到每年 3 ⾄
4 万亿美元。
我们的 Blackwell 架构已⽆处不在，被每⼀家主要超⼤规模云⼚商、每⼀家云服务提供商和每⼀

家主要模型开发商采⽤并投⼊部署。上个⽉，我们庆祝了 OpenAI 发布 GPT-5.5—— 该模型针对
Blackwell 进⾏协同设计、在 Blackwell 上完成训练并由 Blackwell 提供服务，⽬前位居 Artificial
Analysis 排⾏榜⾸位。微软全球最强⼤的 AI 数据中⼼ Fairwater 已提前上线，由数⼗万枚
Blackwell GPU 提供算⼒⽀持。从今年起， AWS 将新增超过 100 万枚 Blackwell 和 Rubin GPU ，并
在 Spectrum ⽹络⽅⾯展开合作。在⾕歌⽅⾯， Blackwell 将向云端客⼾开放，包括⽀持机密计算
能⼒，为安全、⾼性能 AI 提供全新基础。
我们在前沿 AI 算⼒领域的市场份额正在不断提升。我们深化了与 Anthropic 的合作，很⾼兴成为
其战略合作伙伴，共同扩⼤算⼒规模，并将通过 AWS 、 Azure 、 CoreWeave 、 SpaceX xAI 等多
个渠道⽀持 Anthropic 的增⻓。此外，⽬前已在英伟达平台上构建的重要前沿实验室还包括：

OpenAI 、 Gemini 、 SpaceX xAI 、 Meta 、 MSL 、 Microsoft AI 、 TML 、 Reflection 、 Perplexity 、
Cursor 等。随着 Anthropic 的加⼊，我们在前沿 AI 模型领域的市场份额将⼤幅提升。
当今的数据中⼼是受功耗和资本约束的创收型 AI ⼯⼚， AI ⼯⼚运营商必须选择正确的架构。凭借
我们极致的协同设计理念，我们能够提供业界最低的 token 成本、最⾼的 token 吞吐量和最⾼的投
资回报率。最新的 MLPerf 推理测评结果出炉， Blackwell Ultra 再次横扫全部基准测试，在⼴泛的
模型类型和部署场景中实现了最⾼吞吐量。全栈创新推动 GB300 相较六个⽉前吞吐量提升 2.7
倍，每 token 成本降低 60% 。
英伟达算⼒不仅是性能最⾼的 AI 基础设施，更是最具经济性、最易融资的选择。客⼾购买的不是
GPU ，⽽是在构建 AI ⼯⼚，正确的经济衡量指标不是 GPU 的购置价格，⽽是 AI ⼯⼚⽣产智能的

全⽣命周期成本 —— 每⽡ token 数、每美元 token 数、运⾏时间、利⽤率、投⼊⽣产的时间、软件
持久性，以及资产寿命。英伟达在所有这些维度上均表现卓越。
智能体 AI 和强化学习为 CPU 带来了全新的增⻓机遇。在 Grace CPU 成功的基础上， Vera CPU 的
到来恰逢其时，有望把握这⼀拐点。 Vera 基于定制 Arm 核⼼构建，与 Rubin GPU 和 NVLink 进⾏
端到端协同设计，相⽐ x86 架构⽅案，可实现最⾼ 1.5 倍的单核性能提升、 2 倍的每⽡性能提升，
以及 4 倍的机架密度提升。
Vera CPU 为英伟达开辟了⼀个全新的 2000 亿美元市场，是我们此前从未涉⾜的领域，且每家主
要的超⼤规模⼚商和系统⼚商都在与我们合作推进部署。我们预计今年 CPU 营收将接近 200 亿美
元，这将助⼒我们成为全球领先的 CPU 供应商。
我们每年保持⽆与伦⽐的产品迭代节奏，这仍然是⽀撑我们市场地位的核⼼⽀柱。 Vera Rubin 的
量产出货预计将于今年下半年启动，从第三季度开始。通过将七颗专⽤芯⽚集成于五个加速机架

之中， Vera Rubin 相⽐ Blackwell 将实现最⾼ 35 倍的推理吞吐量提升，以及最⾼ 10 倍的 AI ⼯⼚营
收提升。

===== Page 8 =====

作为早期采⽤者，⾕歌的 A5X 裸⾦属实例最多可⽀持跨多个站点部署 96 万枚 Rubin GPU ，使客
⼾能够在英伟达优化基础设施上运⾏其最⼤规模的 AI ⼯作负载。
关于中国市场，虽然美国政府已批准向中国客⼾出⼝ H200 的许可证，但我们尚未产⽣任何相关
营收，且对于货物是否被允许进⼝⾄中国仍存在不确定性。因此，与上⼀季度保持⼀致，我们在
业绩展望中未纳⼊任何中国数据中⼼算⼒营收。
边缘计算业务⽅⾯，我们的边缘计算市场平台营收为 64 亿美元，环⽐增⻓ 10% ，同⽐增⻓
29% 。 Blackwell ⼯作站的强劲需求是本季度增⻓的重要贡献因素，⽽消费端需求则因内存和整
机价格上涨⽽略有下滑。物理 AI 继续保持强劲增⻓势头，过去 12 个⽉营收超过 90 亿美元。我们
与 Uber 的合作将于 2028 年前为近 30 个城市、四⼤洲的 Robotaxi ⻋队提供技术⽀持。在机器⼈领
域，⼯业、⼿术和⼈形机器⼈等各类应⽤的领先企业正基于英伟达技术进⾏⼤规模开发和部署。
我们持续积极推进供应保障⼯作，以⽀持客⼾增⻓。第⼀季度，我们将涵盖库存、采购承诺和预

付款在内的总供应量增⾄ 1450 亿美元。尽管我们⽆法完全规避供应挑战，但我们对⽀撑未来增
⻓机遇的能⼒保持充分信⼼，我们在专注度、规模以及与关键供应商的⻓期合作关系⽅⾯的优势
将持续发挥作⽤。
利润表⽅⾯， GAAP ⽑利率为 74.9% ，⾮ GAAP ⽑利率为 75% ，环⽐基本持平， Blackwell 系统在
出货中持续占据主导地位。 GAAP 和⾮ GAAP 运营费⽤环⽐均增⻓ 12% ，主要由薪酬提升和计算
及基础设施成本增加所驱动。⾮ GAAP 有效税率为 16% ，略低于此前预期，原因是地域结构改
善。资产负债表⽅⾯，应收账款周转天数为 45 天，主要受回款时间节点有利影响，预计第⼆季
度将恢复⾄ 55 天左右。本季度实现创纪录的⾃由现⾦流 490 亿美元，⾼于第四季度的 350 亿美
元。
资本配置⽅⾯，我们的⾸要原则是优先保障研发和战略投资，这将使我们能够培育⽣态系统、推
动市场增⻓并巩固市场地位。作为 AI 的核⼼使能平台，我们将持续进⾏必要的投资，以实现业界
最低的每 token 成本和最⾼的 token 吞吐量，从⽽帮助客⼾和合作伙伴持续扩⼤ AI 边界。

股东回报计划是我们资本配置策略的另⼀核⼼组成部分。鉴于我们对⻓期⾃由现⾦流前景的信
⼼，以及与股东共享成⻓成果的承诺，我们将季度股息从每股 0.01 美元提升⾄每股 0.25 美元，并
将随着业务规模的持续扩⼤定期审查股息政策。我们还宣布新增 800 亿美元的股票回购授权，叠
加现有计划中剩余的 390 亿美元。正如我们在 GTC 上所宣布的，我们计划今年将 50% 的⾃由现⾦
流回报给股东。
第⼆季度业绩展望：总营收预计为 910 亿美元，上下浮动 2% ，环⽐增⻓主要由数据中⼼驱动。
我们正在持续⼤⼒推进供应链⽣态系统建设，以应对我们所预⻅的巨⼤需求，这给予我们充分信
⼼ —— 我们预计 2025 年⾄ 2027 年期间， Blackwell 和 Rubin 平台的累计营收将达到 1 万亿美元。
GAAP 和⾮ GAAP ⽑利率预计分别为 74.9% 和 75% ，上下浮动 50 个基点，全年仍预计维持在 70%
中段⽔平。 GAAP 和⾮ GAAP 运营费⽤预计分别约为 85 亿美元和 83 亿美元，全年运营费⽤增速预

计在 40% ⾼段，主要由研发投⼊增加以及 AI ⼯具使⽤加速所驱动。
2027 财年全年，我们预计 GAAP 和⾮ GAAP 税率在 16% ⾄ 18% 之间（不含重⼤税务环境变化相关
的离散项⽬），低于此前 17% ⾄ 19% 的预期，原因是地域结构改善。
以上是我准备好的内容，接下来将进⼊问答环节，交回给 Toshiya 主持。
Toshiya Hari （投资者关系与战略财务副总裁）
感谢 Colette 。我们现在进⼊问答环节，请接线员开始提问。
⼆、问答环节
第⼀问：细分市场划分逻辑（摩根⼠丹利  Joseph Moore ）

===== Page 9 =====

Joseph Moore （摩根⼠丹利）： 感谢提问机会。我想请教，本次细分市场调整的背后逻辑是什
么？两个细分市场在竞争格局上有何差异？另外，您提到的那个令⼈意外的 CPU 数据，如何在
两个细分市场中理解？谢谢。
Toshiya Hari ：  感谢 Joseph 。⾸先需要更正⼀点， Colette 刚才说的季度股息应是从每股 0.01 美
元提升⾄每股 0.25 美元，请⼤股东们留意这多出来的 0.05 美元。
关于细分市场的调整，我们希望帮助⼤家更好地理解我们的业务。 AI 是多元的，计算本⾝也是多
元的，体现在多个维度：
第⼀， AI 本⾝是多元的。  根据⾏业不同， AI 的形态各异 —— 制造和⼯业机器⼈领域是三维图
形，⽣命科学领域是蛋⽩质结构，⽣命科学或材料科学领域是⼩分⼦化学，物理科学（⽆论是能
源领域还是⾼校科研实验室）则是物理仿真，不⼀⽽⾜。
第⼆，应⽤场景是多元的。  应⽤场景涵盖企业、能源、制造等各⾏各业。
第三，运⾏环境是多元的。  可以在超⼤规模云上运⾏，可以在 AI 原⽣云上运⾏ —— ⽽这类 AI 原

⽣云正在全球各地不断涌现；可以在企业本地部署，可以在⼯⼚、⻋间等⼯业场景中运⾏，也可
以在超算中⼼和边缘端运⾏。边缘端涵盖⼤家熟知的⾃动驾驶汽⻋和机器⼈，但同样还包括芯⽚
⼚、封装⼚、各类制造⼯⼚内部不断扩⼤的计算⽹络。未来，每⼀个基站、每⼀个⽆线⽹络都将
成为 AI 驱动的⽆线⽹络。
第四，治理⽅式是多元的。  部分⼯作负载可以运⾏于公有云，但也有⼀些因⼯业法规合规要
求、机密计算需求或国家安全原因⽽⽆法上云，需要专⻔构建独⽴的数据中⼼。
英伟达独特之处在于，我们是唯⼀⼀家构建全部技术组件的公司，以极致协同设计的⽅式、完整
端到端、全栈的⽅式进⾏研发，同时保持平台开放性，使其能够集成进各类不同环境。⽽某些环
境，例如企业客⼾，需要所有技术组件协同⼯作，不⽤⾃⼰动⼿构建，能够直接购买并运营完整
解决⽅案。
因此，我们将业务拆分为三⼤板块：
超⼤规模云：这是第⼀⼤板块。在这个板块中，我们帮助超⼤规模云⼚商加速其数据处理和
机器学习⼯作负载，⽀持其内部 AI 处理，同时将⼤量英伟达⽣态系统业务引⼊其公有云平

台。
AI 原⽣云、企业本地部署、⼯业本地部署及主权 AI ：这是第⼆⼤板块，增速极快，因为每个
⾏业、每个国家、每家企业都需要 AI ，且都希望以不同的⽅式构建。我们提供完整解决⽅
案，使这⼀切成为可能，也⼤⼤降低了实施难度。
机器⼈边缘计算：这是第三⼤板块。过去的计算以个⼈计算为核⼼，未来将以个⼈ AI 为核
⼼。个⼈ AI 的⼀个典型例⼦就是⾃动驾驶汽⻋ —— 本质上是⼀个作为个⼈ AI 存在的机器⼈系
统。未来还会出现各种形态的机器⼈系统，包括基站⽆线⽹络，它本质上也将成为⼀种机器
⼈系统。
这三⼤板块各⾃拥有不同的软件栈、不同的操作系统和运营⽅式，我们的市场进⼊策略在每个板
块中也⼤相径庭。超⼤规模云的市场进⼊最为简单，因为全球只有五六家超⼤规模⼚商。其余的
板块涉及全球约 25 万家企业，市场进⼊极为复杂，需要对 AI 有⾼度多元化的深刻理解。英伟达
拥有全球规模最⼤的加速库套件，从计算光刻到流体⼒学、粒⼦物理、分⼦动⼒学，涵盖范围极
⼴，这些库对于我们深⼊服务第⼆和第三类垂直⾏业⾄关重要。

总⽽⾔之，这次调整是因为我们的业务已演进和壮⼤到如此规模，进⾏合理细分有助于⼤家更清
晰地了解我们的业务运作逻辑。

===== Page 10 =====

第⼆问：增⻓哲学与超⼤规模资本⽀出展望（ Melius Research Ben Reitzes ）
Ben Reitzes （ Melius Research ）： ⾮常感谢。⻩仁勋，我想请教您关于增⻓哲学的问题。本
季度数据中⼼业务（不含中国）增⻓约 120% ，你们的指引约为 100% 。许多分析师（包括我）
预测今年超⼤规模⼚商资本⽀出将增⻓ 90% ⾄ 100% 。您也提到数据中⼼市场到本⼗年末有望达
到 3 ⾄ 4 万亿美元的规模。请问，您认为公司增速能否持续超过超⼤规模⼚商资本⽀出增速？⽽
超⼤规模⼚商资本⽀出是否会在今年之后继续保持⾼速增⻓？
⻩仁勋： 感谢 Ben 。⾸先，我们理应增⻓得⽐超⼤规模资本⽀出更快，原因正是我刚才介绍分
类逻辑时所阐述的。
我们的数据中⼼业务由两⼤部分构成（实际更为复杂，但我简化为两⼤部分以便于理解）：
第⼀部分是超⼤规模业务。  这正是你们所关注的超⼤规模资本⽀出。今年超⼤规模资本⽀出约
为 1 万亿美元，我有充分理由相信这⼀数字将持续增⻓。这就是未来计算的运作⽅式，没有算⼒

想象⼀下，⼀家芯⽚制造⼚连接到云服务提供商，这根本⾏不通。此外还有主权 AI 云。这第⼆类
数据中⼼，半定制化芯⽚根本⽆法胜任，因为这类数据中⼼希望购买和运营完整系统，不想⾃⾏
设计和构建。这第⼆类不是五六七家公司，⽽是数百、数千家公司，未来将扩展到数⼗万家企
业，每家规模相对较⼩。
这第⼆类将以惊⼈的速度持续增⻓。当我谈到物理 AI ，谈到在过去 30 年中基本未受 IT 冲击的近百
万亿美元的实体经济产业，它们即将迎来 AI 的深刻影响，这正是第⼆⼤类所代表的市场。在这⼀
类别中，我们的市场份额极⾼，我们⼏乎是唯⼀能够服务这⼀市场的公司。我们的平台构建⽅式
如同垂直整合，⼀切协同运作，但同时⼜能拆解开来，供客⼾按需组合、以⾃⼰偏好的⽅式集
成。这第⼆类的情况远未被充分理解，因为其中涵盖的公司数量庞⼤，⽽每⼀处安装规模相⽐单
个超⼤规模⼚商⼜相对较⼩。
因此，综合来看，我们在超⼤规模⼚商中的份额正在增⻓ ——Anthropic 作为我们的新合作伙
伴，未来⼏年我们将⼤⼒帮助其扩⼤算⼒。⽽第⼆类中，很少有公司能够真正服务这⼀市场，我

们的平台解决⽅案是关键所在。
第三问： Vera Rubin 与推理市场份额（ Cantor Fitzgerald CJ Muse ）
CJ Muse （ Cantor Fitzgerald ）： 下午好，感谢提问机会。 Vera Rubin 即将到来，你们对前沿
模型的迭代趋势和多元化 AI ⼯作负载的优化⽅向有着清晰的洞察。投资者对你们在推理市场的份
额⾼度关注，请问 Vera Rubin 和极致协同⼯程将如何影响你们在进⼊ 26 年底和 27 年时的推理市
场份额？
⻩仁勋： 我们在推理市场的份额正在快速增⻓，原因在于今年前沿模型公司的数量⼤幅增加，
涌现出 Cursor 、 Perplexity 等新兴公司，以及 TML 、 Reflection 等新模型企业。我们今年还将
Anthropic 纳⼊合作伙伴体系，他们的扩张速度极快 —— 我们已与其合作，在 Azure 、 AWS 、
CoreWeave 等平台上为其锁定算⼒，此外还有其他正在推进中的合作伙伴正在陆续上线。今年
和明年我们为 Anthropic 带来的算⼒规模将相当可观。在此之前，我们对 Anthropic 的算⼒覆盖⼏

乎为零，因此我们在推理市场的份额提升速度极快。
Vera Rubin 甚⾄会⽐ Grace Blackwell 更为成功。现在我⼏乎想不到有哪家前沿模型公司不会从
⼀开始就迁移到 Vera Rubin—— 这⼀点在 Blackwell 推出时并⾮如此。 Vera Rubin 的起点极为强

===== Page 11 =====

劲，必将超越 Grace Blackwell 的成就。
回到 Ben 之前的问题，以上关于推理份额增⻓的讨论，实际上聚焦的是超⼤规模云这第⼀类。⽽
在第⼆类 AI 数据中⼼中，我们⼏乎是独家供应商，其中推理业务⼏乎 100% 由英伟达承接。当
然，物理 AI 领域⽬前也基本上只有英伟达⼀家在服务，我们深耕物理 AI 已久。因此，综合来看，
我们在推理市场的份额正在快速增⻓。
第四问： LPX 与平台战略（ UBS Timothy Arcuri ）
Timothy Arcuri （ UBS ）： ⾮常感谢。⻩仁勋，我想请教⼀下 LPX 的市场进展。您此前提到
Groq 在某些市场约占 20% 份额，我想了解 LPX 的牵引⼒情况，以及它如何融⼊您更⼴泛的平台
战略？
⻩仁勋： LPX 专为低延迟、⾼ token 速率场景设计，但其吞吐量相对较低，⽀持的模型规模有
限，处理⻓上下⽂的能⼒也较弱 —— 例如软件编程、智能体⼯作负载等需要⼤量上下⽂的场景，
LPX 的能⼒有所受限。
正如我此前所解释的， LPX 的适⽤场景并不⼴泛，它的定位是：⾯向拥有多元化 token 服务组合

的提供商，其中某些服务属于⾼溢价服务、客⼾数量有限但单⽤⼾ token 速率极⾼的应⽤。这⼀
判断与我之前的分析完全⼀致。
因此，我预期 LPX 以及其他基于 SRAM 、专注于解码、⾼ token 速率⽣成的加速器，在相当⻓的
时间内仍将是⼀类细分市场产品。相⽐之下， Grace Blackwell 和 Vera Rubin ⽀持 AI 的全⽣命周
期 —— 从数据处理、预训练准备、预训练，到强化学习后训练，再到推理， Grace Blackwell 是
完成所有这些任务的最佳平台。⽽对于已经拥有⾼ token 速率服务的提供商，在特定场景下可以
搭配 LPX ，进⼀步提升该服务的交付质量。
⾄于 LPX 占多少市场份额 ——20% 也好， 10% 也好，取决于 AI 的发展阶段。我认为⽬前远低于
20% ，未来随着⾼溢价 token 服务的发展，这⼀⽐例或许有机会达到 20% 。我们也期待与服务提
供商合作，共同推进这⼀能⼒。
第五问： CPU 与 GPU 的关系及 Vera CPU 规模（美国银⾏  Vivek Arya ）

Vivek Arya （美国银⾏）： 感谢提问机会。⻩仁勋，近期关于智能体应⽤中 CPU 的讨论热度很
⾼，甚⾄有说法认为 CPU 的数量将超过 GPU 的数量。我想请你从两个⻆度分析：第⼀，这是增
量性的新⼯作负载，还是对 GPU 原有⼯作负载的替代？第⼆，您提到的 200 亿美元规模，是仅针
对独⽴ Vera CPU ，还是已包含在 Vera Rubin 整机中的 CPU 部分？请帮助我们理解 CPU 与 GPU 的
关系 —— 是竞争还是互补，以及这 200 亿美元应如何理解？
⻩仁勋：  这 200 亿美元指的是独⽴ Vera CPU 。我来介绍⼀下 Vera 的四种使⽤⽅式：
第⼀种： Vera Rubin 整机。我们将售出数百万套 Rubin ，每两套 Rubin 搭配⼀颗 Vera ，有相应的
价格体系。
第⼆种： Vera 独⽴ CPU 。
第三种： Vera 搭配 CX9 ⽹卡及相应软件栈，⽤于存储场景。
第四种： Vera 搭配 CX9 ，配合安全与计算隔离、机密计算软件栈。

以上四种场景都基于 Vera 构建。我预计在 Vera Rubin 的整个⽣命周期内，供给将始终处于供不
应求的状态。
关于 CPU 在智能体 AI 中的⻆⾊ —— 智能体本质上是⼀个 " 执⾏框架 " （ harness ）。这个框架可以是
OpenClaw ，可以是 Hermes ； Anthropic 的 Claude Code 本质上是 Claude Opus 模型外的⼀层框

===== Page 12 =====

架， OpenAI 的 Codex 本质上是 GPT-5.5 模型外的⼀层框架。框架负责处理 I/O 、编排、内存管
理，以及⼯具调⽤ —— 例如连接浏览器、 C 编译器、 Python 编译器等。框架在 CPU 上运⾏，⼯具
调⽤也在 CPU 上运⾏。例如， AI 执⾏搜索或使⽤浏览器时，这些都在 CPU 上完成。
⼈类世界有 10 亿⽤⼾，未来世界将会有数⼗亿个 AI 智能体，虽然不是今天，但我们会逐步⾛到
那⾥。每个智能体都会使⽤⼯具，这些⼯具类似于我们今天使⽤的 PC 。未来，智能体将拥有⾃
⼰的 "AI PC" 。假设现在全球有⼏⼗万个智能体，未来有⼏⼗亿个，每个智能体都有⾃⼰
的 "PC" 来使⽤。
每个智能体还会衍⽣出⼦智能体，每次衍⽣就需要调⽤推理 —— ⽽所有的 " 思考 " 都发⽣在 GPU
上，所有的编排则在 CPU 上进⾏。⼦智能体在 " 思考 " 时使⽤ GPU ，在调⽤模拟器时则可能使⽤
CPU 或 GPU 。这也是为什么我们与 Cadence 、 Synopsys 、 Siemens 、 Adobe 等公司深度合作

—— 我们正在加速全球所有的设计⼯具和数据处理、数据库引擎，让它们运⾏在 CUDA 上。原因
很简单，智能体⽐⼈类的容忍度更低，需要更快的响应速度，⽽⼯具加速到 GPU 上能显著提升
效率。
Vera 正是为智能体时代⽽设计的 CPU 。过去的 CPU 设计逻辑是多核⼼、便于按核⼼出租；⼈们
按核⼼付费，这是传统云计算的经济学。未来 AI 时代的经济学是每美元 token 数或每 token 成本，
核⼼⽬标是尽可能快地⽣成和处理 token—— 这正是 Vera 的强项所在。
我们正在构建的是完整的 AI 基础设施：出⾊的存储（这是我们构建 STX 的原因）、出⾊的⽹络
（这是我们打造 Spectrum X 的原因）、出⾊的 GPU 与推理能⼒（ NVLink 72 ）、出⾊的安全与机
密计算（ Vera Rubin 是全球⾸个⽀持端到端机密计算的平台）、出⾊的 CPU 。我们⼀应俱全。
第六问： 1 万亿美元展望之上的增⻓空间（⾼盛  Jim Schneider ）
Jim Schneider （⾼盛）： 下午好，感谢提问。在 GTC 上，您提到了 Blackwell 和 Rubin 平台 1 万

亿美元的可⻅营收，但我相信这⼀数字不包括 LPX 、 Rubin CPX 和 Vera CPU 机架。请问 Vera
CPU 是否将成为 1 万亿美元之上最⼤的超预期来源？还是说您在考虑其他产品组合，包括 CPU ，
以进⼀步提升在总市场中的份额？
⻩仁勋：  关于 1 万亿美元之上的增量空间，我认为主要有三个来源：
第⼀，前沿 AI 模型市场份额的持续提升。我预期份额将进⼀步增⻓，这是最⼤的增量来源之⼀。
第⼆，独⽴ Vera CPU—— 这未包含在此前的 1 万亿美元预测中。智能体系统的总市场规模相当
可观，我们的客⼾对 Vera 的热情⾮常⾼，我们将售出⼤量 Vera CPU ，这是第⼆⼤增量来源。
第三， LPX—— 如前所述，由于其 SRAM 架构带来的低延迟、⾼交互性优势，以及相对有限的吞
吐量和上下⽂处理能⼒， LPX 将服务于⼀部分细分市场。通过 Vera 、 Vera Rubin 和 LPX 的组合，
我们将能够覆盖 AI 从预训练、后训练到推理、智能体系统的全⽣命周期和完整需求谱系。

第七问： Vera Rubin 爬坡斜率（ TD Cowen Joshua Buchalter ）
Joshua Buchalter （ TD Cowen ）： ⾮常感谢，也恭喜业绩出⾊。 Colette ，您在准备好的发⾔
中提到 GB300 是公司历史上爬坡速度最快的产品。应如何对⽐看待 Vera Rubin 的爬坡速度？
Vera Rubin 虽然在芯⽚层⾯是全新架构，但机架形态相似 —— 是否意味着爬坡斜率与 GB300 相
当，还是因为新硅⽚的缘故会更为平缓？
Colette Kress ： 我们此前已说明将在下半年推出 Vera Rubin ，第三季度将是初始出货阶段，进
⼊第四季度后爬坡将持续加速，明年第⼀季度预计也将是强劲的⼀季。⽬前难以判断哪个产品的
爬坡会更快，但需求已经明确，我们已有采购订单，⼏乎所有主要客⼾都已就绪。这些系统极为
复杂，需要时间完成整机组装并推向市场。总体⽽⾔，制约因素主要是所有系统配件的量产进
度，⽽⾮需求本⾝。

===== Page 13 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
431 收藏 分享到 :
结束语
Toshiya Hari ：  感谢各位参与问答。以下是⼏项会议安排提⽰：⻩仁勋将于 6 ⽉ 1 ⽇在中国台北
Computex 发表主题演讲；我们还将参加 5 ⽉ 28 ⽇的 TD Cowen TMT 会议，以及 6 ⽉ 4 ⽇的美国银
⾏全球科技会议。 2027 财年第⼆季度业绩电话会议定于 8 ⽉ 26 ⽇举⾏。下⾯请⻩仁勋做本次电话
会议的总结发⾔。
⻩仁勋总结发⾔
这是⼀个⾮凡的季度，需求已呈抛物线式增⻓。原因很简单：智能体 AI 已经到来。 AI 现在能够完
成真正有价值的⽣产性⼯作， token 已经实现盈利，模型开发商正在竞相扩⼤产量。在 AI 时代，
算⼒容量就是营收和利润，英伟达正是这个时代的核⼼平台。
在全球所有平台中，英伟达算⼒所⽀撑的需求多样性是最丰富的。让我重点讲五件事：

第⼀，英伟达是唯⼀能够运⾏所有前沿 AI 模型的平台。随着 Anthropic 加⼊我们现有的合作伙伴
—— 包括 OpenAI 、 xAI 、 Meta-MSL 、 Gemini 等 —— 我们在前沿 AI 模型市场的份额正在增⻓。
第⼆，我们覆盖每⼀家超⼤规模云⼚商，⽀持其核⼼数据处理和机器学习⼯作负载、内部 AI 服
务，以及其公有云中⾯向英伟达⽤⼾的需求。
第三，我们的全栈完整 AI ⼯⼚解决⽅案和庞⼤的全球⽣态系统，使我们能够独特地服务新兴 AI 数
据中⼼细分市场 —— 包括新型 AI 原⽣云、主权 AI 云，以及企业和⼯业本地部署基础设施，这正是
我之前所讲的第⼆类市场。
第四， NVIDIA CUDA 的触达延伸⾄边缘端：机器⼈、⾃动驾驶汽⻋、嵌⼊式医疗仪器、 AI-RAN
电信基站。下⼀波浪潮是物理 AI—— 数⼗亿个⾃主机器⼈系统将在物理世界中运⾏，这正是我之
前所讲的第三类市场。
第五，我们迎来了⼀个重⼤的全新增⻓引擎 ——Vera ：全球⾸款专为智能体 AI 设计的 CPU 。

Vera 为英伟达开辟了全新的 2000 亿美元市场，是我们此前从未涉⾜的领域，每家主要的超⼤规
模⼚商和系统⼚商都在与我们合作部署。
世界正在重建计算基础设施，以⽀撑智能体 AI 和物理 AI 机器⼈的发展，英伟达处于这些转变的核
⼼。我们⽤了三⼗年构建英伟达计算平台 —— 统⼀架构、庞⼤⽣态系统、跨芯⽚、系统、⽹络和
软件的极致协同设计。我们提前为这⼀时刻做好了准备，当智能体 AI 到来之时，英伟达已经准备
就绪。⽽这⼀时刻，已经到来。
主持⼈：  今天的电话会议到此结束，感谢参与，再⻅。
限免

===== Page 14 =====

写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 15 =====

五分钟看懂全球市场，尽在财经早餐。
摘要：
华⻅早安之声
请各位听众升级为⻅闻最新版 APP ，以便成功收听以下⾳频。
市场概述
美伊谈判出现缓和信号，推动油价⼤跌、全球股债⻬涨。标普 500 涨 1.1% ，结束三连跌，纳指
100 涨 1.7% ，道指涨 1.3% 。费城半导体指数⼤涨 4.5% 。全球航空业 ETF 反弹 6.57% 。盘后英伟
达财报发布后，股价震荡后跌约 1.5%。⾼盛涨 5.8%，创去年 4 ⽉以来最⼤⽇涨幅，创新⾼。
油价重挫， WTI 原油⼤跌 5.5% ，报每桶 98.47 美元，布油盘中跌超 7% 。
随着油价回落，市场对 “ 战争驱动型再通胀 ” 的押注暂时降温，全球债券价格反弹。美国 10 年期国
债收益率下跌 9 个基点⾄ 4.57% ；德国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 10 个基点⾄ 3.10% ；英国 10 年期国
债收益率下跌 14 个基点⾄ 4.99%
美元跌 0.3% 。现货⻩⾦上涨 1.4% ，报 4546.74 美元 / 盎司。
亚洲时段，科创 50 ⼤涨超 3% ，芯⽚半导体⼤爆发，寒武纪、华虹均创历史新⾼，恒指跌 0.6% ，

中芯国际涨近 10% 。
要闻
美伊冲突降温，美油⼤跌 5.5%
00:00 / 11:05
中国
中华⼈⺠共和国和俄罗斯联邦关于进⼀步加强全⾯战略协作、深化睦邻友好合作的联合声明。俄
罗斯总统普京访华期间两国元⾸会晤成果⽂件清单。
商务部解读中美经贸磋商成果：对等降税、稀⼟松绑、波⾳订单等。
中国最新 LPR报价出炉：连续 12 个⽉维持不变， 5 年期以上 3.5% ， 1 年期 3% 。
阿⾥云峰会：发布 “ 真武 M890”AI 芯⽚、千问旗舰模型 Qwen3.7-Max 上线。
段永平最新美股持仓曝光，豪掷 12 亿美元重仓特斯拉，⼤举加仓英伟达、拼多多。
海外
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 16 =====

市场收报
欧美股市：标普 500 指数收涨 1.08% ，报 7432.97 点。道指涨幅 1.31% ，报 50009.35 点。纳指涨
幅 1.54% ，报 26270.359 点。欧洲 STOXX 600 指数收涨 1.46% ，报 620.29 点。
A 股：上证指数收报 4162.18 点，跌 0.18% 。深证成指收报 15569.98 点，涨 0.00% 。创业板指收
报 3921.79 点，涨 0.34% 。
债市：美国 10 年期基准国债收益率跌 10.46 个基点，刷新⽇低⾄ 4.5577% 。两年期美债收益率跌
8.01 个基点，报 4.0381% 。
商品：现货⻩⾦涨 1.35% ，报 4543.20 美元 / 盎司。现货⽩银涨 2.92% ，报 75.8819 美元 / 盎司。
WTI 6 ⽉原油期货收跌 5.66% ，报 98.26 美元 / 桶。布伦特 7 ⽉原油期货收跌 5.63% ，报 105.02 美
元 / 桶。
特朗普称美伊谈判处于 “ 最终阶段 ” ，布油盘中跌超 7%。特朗普：不急于结束与伊朗冲突，在伊

朗问题上内塔尼亚胡 “ 听我的 ” 。伊朗称将在 “ 强烈不信任美国 ” 的情况下继续推进谈判，伊美据称 5
⽉朝觐季后举⾏新谈判。伊朗⾰命卫队警告称若再遭袭，战⽕将溢出中东。
美联储会议纪要放鹰：多数官员⽀持通胀持续⾼企时加息，多⼈倾向删除宽松倾向。“新美联储
通讯社 ”：联储官员已搁置是否降息问题， 4 ⽉会议开始更认真地权衡是否加息。
市场暂时松了⼝⽓，⽇本超⻓期国债拍卖意外⾛强，收益率应声骤降逾 10 基点。⽇本财⻓：如
有必要将 “ ⼤胆⾏动 ”，防⽌⽇元继续⾛弱。
英伟达Q1 营收超预期增 85% 、指引再新⾼仍不够亮眼，新增回购 800 亿且⼤幅上调股息。电话
会：CFO 称需求在加速，⻩仁勋称 Vera Rubin 全周期供应受限。
三星罢⼯危机暂解，加薪 6.2% ，芯⽚部⻔按业绩 10.5% 计提奖⾦，以税后股票发放。
SpaceX提交 IPO 招股书：2028 年部署轨道算⼒卫星，⻢斯克奖励与⽕星百万⼈⼝挂钩。
报道：OpenAI最快本周提交 IPO 申请， 9 ⽉完成 IPO，⽬标估值逾 1 万亿美元。

Anthropic将迎⾸个盈利季度！本季营收翻倍冲上 109 亿美元。
Meta⼤裁员，扎克伯格坦承：AI 正在 " 学习 " 员⼯，并逐步取代他们。

===== Page 17 =====

要闻详情
全球重磅
中国
中华⼈⺠共和国和俄罗斯联邦关于进⼀步加强全⾯战略协作、深化睦邻友好合作的联合声明。
双⽅⾼度评价近年来两国经贸合作保持⾼质量发展，为改善两国⼈⺠福祉作出积极贡献。双⽅
将继续加强经贸政策沟通交流，巩固重点领域合作，挖掘新的增⻓点，推动货物贸易和服务贸
易提质升级，坚定捍卫⾃主发展双边经贸伙伴关系的权利。
俄罗斯总统普京访华期间两国元⾸会晤成果⽂件清单。俄罗斯总统普京访华期间，两国元⾸签
署并发表《中华⼈⺠共和国和俄罗斯联邦关于进⼀步加强全⾯战略协作、深化睦邻友好合作的
联合声明》，双⽅共同发表《中华⼈⺠共和国和俄罗斯联邦关于倡导世界多极化和新型国际关系
的联合声明》。
商务部解读中美经贸磋商成果：对等降税、稀⼟松绑、波⾳订单等。商务部美⼤司负责⼈解读
中美经贸磋商初步成果，涉及关税安排、扩⼤农产品贸易、稀⼟出⼝管制、⻜机贸易、美国⽜
⾁企业注册等。按照中美元⾸达成的重要共识，中国航空根据⾃⾝航空运输发展需要，将按照
商业化原则引进 200 架波⾳⻜机。中国政府依法依规对稀⼟等关键矿产实施出⼝管制，对合规、

⺠⽤的许可申请予以审核。
中国最新 LPR 报价出炉：连续 12 个⽉维持不变， 5 年期以上 3.5% ， 1 年期 3%。 “ 货币政策继续宽
松的紧迫性不⼤。 ” 专家分析指出， LPR 连续 12 个⽉不变，并⾮政策 “ 缺位 ” ，⽽是结构性调控深化
的体现：商业银⾏净息差仍处历史低位，主动下调 LPR 加点动⼒不⾜；同时，央⾏ 7 天期逆回购
利率等政策利率锚定平稳， LPR 定价基础未发⽣实质性变化。
阿⾥云峰会：发布 “ 真武 M890”AI 芯⽚、千问旗舰模型 Qwen3.7-Max 上线。在云峰会上，阿⾥推
出性能升⾄三倍、内置 144GB 显存的真武 M890 ⾃研芯⽚，并配合推出 128 卡超节点服务器，计
划 2027 年推出 V900 。同步发布旗舰模型 Qwen3.7-Max ，具备 35 ⼩时⾃主调⽤千次⼯具的⻓程
智能体能⼒，盲测位列国产第⼀。
段永平最新美股持仓曝光，豪掷 12 亿美元重仓特斯拉，⼤举加仓英伟达、拼多多。截⾄⼀季度
末，段永平管理的 H&H 基⾦总持仓达 200 亿美元。他豪掷 12 亿美元重仓特斯拉，跻⾝第五⼤持

仓，新建仓 Circle （持仓市值约 1908 万美元）；⼤举加仓英伟达（ 24 亿美元）、拼多多（ 20 亿美
元）；持续减持苹果（降⾄ 36.72% ），并清仓阿⾥巴巴、阿斯⻨。
海外

===== Page 18 =====

特朗普称美伊谈判处于 “ 最终阶段 ” ，布油盘中跌超 7%，美国库存创纪录暴跌也挡不住。部分油
轮通过霍尔⽊兹海峡的消息也是油价下跌推⼿。此前公布的美国上周 EIA 原油总库存暴跌 1780 万
桶，⼤超市场预期，叠加美国原油出⼝升⾄历史⾼位，⼀度引发供应担忧。 EIA 数据公布后，原
油曾略为收窄跌幅、⽇内跌不⾜ 3.5% 。
特朗普：不急于结束与伊朗冲突，在伊朗问题上内塔尼亚胡 “ 听我的 ”。特朗普周⼆称， “ 实现任
务⽬标⽐设定结束时间表更重要 ” 。以媒称，特朗普当天同内塔尼亚胡通话讨论了地区局势及相
关安全议题，涉及伊朗问题及未来可能采取的⾏动。
伊朗称将在 “ 强烈不信任美国 ” 的情况下继续推进谈判，伊美据称 5 ⽉朝觐季后举⾏新谈判。据沙
特消息，伊朗和美国将在 5 ⽉底伊斯兰教朝觐季结束后于巴基斯坦⾸都伊斯兰堡举⾏新⼀轮谈
判。伊朗外交部称，正与阿曼合作，推动制定霍尔⽊兹海峡⻓期安全机制。
伊朗⾰命卫队警告称若再遭袭，战⽕将溢出中东；美军加油机现⾝以⾊列机场。美伊局势持续

升温。伊朗周三警告称，若再遭袭击，战⽕将溢出中东地区，反击将出现在美以 “ 意想不到的地
⽅ ” 。周⼆，美军加油机被⽬击停放在以⾊列本 - 古⾥安国际机场。报道称，以⾊列⾼层评估认
为，特朗普仍倾向于对伊朗重启军事⾏动。
美联储会议纪要放鹰：多数官员⽀持通胀持续⾼企时加息，多⼈倾向删除宽松倾向。纪要显
⽰， 4 ⽉末会上，与会者普遍认为，因通胀持续⾼位和中东冲突的不确定性，维持利率不变的时
⻓可能超出预期； “ 许多 ” ⼈表⽰，倾向移除会后声明中暗⽰未来利率决策有宽松倾向的措辞，不
过这些与会者不占多数，声明最终保持不变；⼀些⼈强调若通胀稳步回落或劳动⼒市场明显⾛
弱，可能适合降息； “ 绝⼤多数 ” 与会者认为，通胀达到联储⽬标所需时⻓超预期的⻛险增加；
“ 多数 ” 与会者认为就业⻛险偏下⾏。“新美联储通讯社 ” ：联储官员已搁置是否降息问题， 4 ⽉会议
开始更认真地权衡是否加息。
市场暂时松了⼝⽓，⽇本超⻓期国债拍卖意外⾛强，收益率应声骤降逾 10 基点。⽇本超⻓期国
债拍卖意外⾛强， 20 年期投标倍数达 4.01 倍，两⼤主承销商包揽六成发⾏量，收益率单⽇骤降

逾 10 基点。然⽽策略师直⾔，这不过是急涨后的技术性喘息—— ⽇元贬值、油价通胀、加息预
期与财政扩张四重压⼒交织，历史⾼位的收益率远未到拐点。
⽇本财⻓：如有必要将 “ ⼤胆⾏动 ” ，防⽌⽇元继续⾛弱。⽇元跌⾄关键敏感位，⽇本财⻓⽚⼭
皋⽉祭出强硬表态，声称已获 G7 背书、将对汇市采取 " ⼤胆⾏动 " 。然⽽，⼝头⼲预治标不治
本，摩根⼠丹利警告，若⽇本央⾏ 6 ⽉未能加息，⽇元或直线砸穿 170 ；加息则有望反弹⾄
140 。当前市场加息概率定价已升⾄ 75% ，⼀场决定⽇元命运的关键博弈，箭在弦上。
英伟达 Q1 营收超预期增 85% 、指引再新⾼仍不够亮眼，新增回购 800 亿且⼤幅上调股息。Q1 英
伟达营收创逾⼀年最⾼同⽐增速；数据中⼼业务营收同⽐增 92% 、环⽐前纪录增 21% ，其中计
算收⼊低于预期； EPS 同⽐翻⼀倍多，⽑利率环⽐略降⾄ 75% 、略⾼于预期。 Q2 营收指引⾼于
预期均值但低于最乐观预期，且不含中国数据中⼼计算收⼊；季度股息⼤幅提⾼ 24 倍⾄ 0.25 美

元。英伟达称，向分为数据中⼼和边缘计算两⼤平台的新版财报框架过渡。盘后股价转跌，⼀
度跌超 3% 。
英伟达电话会： CFO 称需求在加速，⻩仁勋称 Vera Rubin 全周期供应受限。英伟达 CFO 表
⽰，公司当前需求正在加速，并将 2030 年末年度 AI ⾏业整体开⽀规模预测上调⾄ 3 万亿⾄ 4 万
亿美元。⻩仁勋预计 Vera Rubin 在整个⽣命周期内都将⾯临供应受限局⾯。管理层同时表
⽰， AI ⾏业正将研发与投资列为优先事项，公司完全相信⾃⾝能够实现 1 万亿美元营收⽬标。
三星罢⼯危机暂解，加薪 6.2% ，芯⽚部⻔按业绩 10.5% 计提奖⾦，以税后股票发放。在政府紧
急斡旋下，三星电⼦在罢⼯前夜最后关头与⼯会达成初步协议。新协议还引⼊⻓期特别绩效奖

===== Page 19 =====

⾦⽅案，以年度利润⽬标为基准： 2026 年⾄ 2028 年间，年度⽬标利润为 200 万亿韩元（约合
1330 亿美元）； 2029 年⾄ 2035 年间，⽬标降⾄ 100 万亿韩元。
SpaceX 提交 IPO 招股书： 2028 年部署轨道算⼒卫星，⻢斯克奖励与⽕星百万⼈⼝挂钩。
SpaceX 正式启动 IPO ，招股书披露其估值超 1.5 万亿美元。核⼼业务 Starlink 订阅⽤⼾达 1000
万，年营收逾 110 亿美元。公司计划 2028 年部署轨道 AI 计算卫星星座，并布局⽉球及⽕星基础设
施。⻢斯克股权激励与⽕星百万居⺠殖⺠地⽬标挂钩。
报道： OpenAI 最快本周提交 IPO 申请， 9 ⽉完成 IPO，⽬标估值逾 1 万亿美元。 OpenAI CEO
Sam Altman 希望抢在竞争对⼿ Anthropic 之前完成上市，以争夺市场关注与资⾦。知情⼈⼠表
⽰， OpenAI 此时提交上市申请，部分意图在于向公开市场投资者发出信号，希望他们预留资
⾦，不要全部押注在 SpaceX 六⽉的 IPO 上。

Anthropic 将迎⾸个盈利季度！本季营收翻倍冲上 109 亿美元。 Anthropic 第⼀季度的销售额为 48
亿美元。如今其季度营收增速，已超过了 Zoom 在疫情期间、以及⾕歌和 Facebook 在各⾃ IPO 前
⼣的增⻓速度。该公司预计将在 6 ⽉当季实现 5.59 亿美元的运营利润。
Meta ⼤裁员，扎克伯格坦承： AI 正在 " 学习 " 员⼯，并逐步取代他们。扎克伯格在裁员前⼣的内部
会议上亲⼝告知员⼯，公司正在追踪其设备使⽤⾏为，希望 AI 通过观察员⼯的⼯作⽅式，学
习 " 真正聪明的⼈如何使⽤电脑 " 。
研报精选
沃什的第⼀道死局。沃什被市场视为降息推动者，但实际接⼿的是严重分裂的 FOMC 与仍具粘性
的通胀环境。叠加中性利率上调争议与政治压⼒，降息空间被显著压缩。市场定价与现实错
位，美债、科技股与⻩⾦均⾯临重新定价⻛险，关键变量在伊朗局势与 6 ⽉ FOMC 表态。
2007 年幽灵重现？债市拉响警报：廉价资⾦时代或⾛向终结！美债 30 年期收益率飙破 5.2% 创⼗

九年新⾼， 150 亿美元巨量抛单席卷市场， 2007 年危机幽灵悄然重现。基⾦经理史上最⼤幅度加
仓股票，债市信号却截然相反；技术形态⽰警，收益率或爆炸性突破⾄ 8.6%—— 廉价资⾦的时
代，或许真的⾛到了尽头。
历史的回响： 1920 年代前⻋之鉴，⾼利率这次能否改写 AI 泡沫结局？彭博专栏作家 Jonathan
Levin 指出，⾼债券收益率并⾮市场警报，⽽是 AI 资本开⽀周期中防⽌泡沫失控的制衡⼒量。历
史经验表明， 1920 年代与 1990 年代末，过低的利率环境曾将技术驱动的繁荣推向危险泡沫。当
前强劲的企业盈利预期正在消化⾼利率带来的压⼒，为市场提供了不同于以往的缓冲。
别只盯着绝对⾼度！⾼盛：美债收益率变动速度也是美股 “ 杀⼿ ”。⾼盛认为，决定美股能否承受
利率压⼒的关键，不只是收益率⾼低，更在于上升的 “ 来源、速度和起点 ” 。当前市场由通胀⽽⾮
增⻓主导，股债相关性已跌⾄近三⼗年最负⽔平，股债双杀⻛险上升。⾼盛建议关注 “ 股跌 + 利率
升 ” 双元期权，以对冲潜在尾部⻛险。

AI 服务器换代浪潮来袭，⾼盛：⾼端铜箔有效供应严重不⾜，供应缺⼝或成未来三年 " 新常态 "。
⾼盛预计，⾼端铜箔（ HVLP3 及以上规格）的可寻址市场规模预计将以 122% 的年复合增⻓率扩
张，到 2028 年将占全球 PCB 铜箔总市场的 33% 。在供需层⾯，考虑到主要供应商 HVLP3+ 产品
的良率仅维持在 70% ⾄ 80% ，⾼盛预计⾏业有效产能的实际供应缺⼝将在 2026 ⾄ 2028 年分别达
到 28% 、 39% 和 38% ，远超名义产能所呈现的温和失衡。
国内宏观

===== Page 20 =====

中国财政部： 1-4 ⽉全国⼀般公共预算收⼊同⽐增 3.5% ，证券交易印花税⼤增 74.8%。 1-4 ⽉，
全国⼀般公共预算收⼊ 83404 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 3.5% ，⽀出 94809 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 1.3% 。税收收
⼊中，个⼈所得税同⽐增⻓ 12.2% ，证券交易印花税同⽐⼤增 74.8% ；契税、⼟地增值税分别下
降 15.3% 和 15.6% 。
发改委郑栅洁：深⼊整治 “ 内卷式 ” 竞争，积极扩⼤有效益的投资。国家发展改⾰委主任郑栅洁表
⽰，下⼀步⽤好⽤⾜宏观政策，推动科技⾃⽴⾃强、产业链⾃主可控，深⼊整治 “ 内卷式 ” 竞争，
积极扩⼤有效益的投资，完善⺠营企业参与国家重⼤项⽬建设⻓效机制，不断增强经济发展内
⽣动⼒。
楼市 “ 现房⻛ ” ：有中介带看现房占⽐约七成！深圳前 4 个⽉现房销售占⽐已过半，专家：⼤势所
趋。今年前 4 个⽉，深圳新房现房销售占⽐达 56% ，超过预售。多地中介带看现房⽐例攀升，现
房项⽬因 “ 所⻅即所得 ” 受⻘睐。政策端也在引导现房模式转型，专家认为，这是购房者对确定性

交付的理性选择，现房销售渐成楼市主流趋势。
国内公司
⻓鑫，是不是 “ 中国海⼒⼠ ” ？存储涨价周期叠加国产替代机遇，让⻓鑫迎来⾼光时刻。市场甚⾄
给出万亿级估值预期，但⾏业周期波动、扩产压⼒及 AI 存储竞争，也将成为其冲击 “ 中国海⼒⼠ ”
道路上的关键考验。
海外宏观
三个⽉净买⼊趋近于零：外资对美股的热情已跌⾄关税⻛波以来最低。彭博策略师指出，以三
个⽉滚动⼝径计算，外资净买⼊美股规模已接近零，为去年 “ 关税恐慌 ” 以来最低。同时，美债市
场的外资需求同样疲软。尽管 3 ⽉美国整体资本流⼊约 1500 亿美元，但主要源于美国投资者出售
海外债券，⽽⾮外资主动增配。总量数字掩盖了股债双线资本流⼊稳健性弱化的趋势。
美股狂欢还能持续多久？富⼈现⾦耗尽，市场脆弱性上升。美银调查显⽰机构及富豪现⾦配置
率降⾄历史极低，资⾦近乎全额买⼊股票。这种极端仓位压缩了流动性缓冲，⼀旦股市因过度
依赖 AI 叙事⽽回撤，富裕群体将因财富效应缩⽔率先收紧钱包，重创作为美国经济⽀柱的顶层消
费。

OpenAI 等 AI 巨头 IPO 是想⻛险转嫁：把泡沫卖给散⼾和养⽼⾦？分析认为，即便 2026 年 AI 热度
延续，若投资难以为继， 2027 ⾄ 2028 年恐重演 50% 跌幅的科技崩盘；⽽近期涌现的 AI 巨头 IPO
潮，本质上是将早期投资⻛险向散⼾和养⽼⾦的⼤规模转嫁。
美股芯⽚股已严重超买！美银警告：历史 7 次类似信号后平均暴跌 44%。美银警告，半导体 ETF
（ SMH ）今年狂飙近 50% ， 14 周 RSI 连续两周破 80 并创历史新⾼，价格较 200 周均线偏离⾼达
150% ，远超以往极端⽔平。 1995 年以来 7 次类似信号显⽰，平均 21 周后⻅顶、最终平均回撤
44% ，且顶部拖得越久越危险。 2024 年的⾛势是当前⾏情最接近的历史参照，极端超买之后，
市场可能先回调，再诱发新⼀轮追涨，最后才进⼊真正下跌阶段。
霍尔⽊兹 + 厄尔尼诺双杀，花旗警告：⼤宗商品恐爆发超级通胀⻛暴！花旗发出史上最严通胀警
告：霍尔⽊兹海峡封锁与超强厄尔尼诺正形成 " 双杀 " 格局，能源与粮⻝价格的上⾏⻛险极度不对

称。布伦特原油⽜市情景冲击 150 美元；若危机再延续 6 个⽉，全球⽯油库存将跌回 1979 年第⼆
次⽯油危机⽔平，油价涨⾄约 200 美元 / 桶，通胀失控⻛险骤然迫近。
海外公司

===== Page 21 =====

SpaceX 上市在即，两家顶级 VC 各赚 600 亿美元。 SpaceX 本周或发招股书，若以 1.75 万亿美元
估值 IPO ，将全⾯刷新 VC ⾏业历史回报纪录。早期重仓持股的 Valor Equity 与 Founders Fund ，
将分别斩获近 650 亿和超 600 亿美元的巨额账⾯收益；红杉资本及对冲基⾦ Darsana 等也浮盈丰
厚。
⾏业 / 概念
1 、钙钛矿电池⼁据中证报报道，新加坡南洋理⼯⼤学科学家团队开发出⼀种新型超薄半透明钙
钛矿太阳能电池，其厚度仅为⼀根头发丝直径的万分之⼀，⼤约是传统钙钛矿太阳能电池的 50
分之⼀。尽管厚度极薄，但其光电转换效率仍处于同类超薄器件领先⽔平。
点评：由于该新型太阳能电池具有半透明的特点，未来有望嵌⼊玻璃窗、⻋窗，甚⾄能⽤在智
能眼镜上，使 " 玻璃变电池 " 成为现实。随着钙钛矿等新⼀代技术的商业化落地，薄膜太阳能电池
市场将迎来爆发式增⻓。由于其轻质和⾼⽐功率特性，薄膜钙钛矿太阳能电池被视为未来空间
太阳能电站、太空数据中⼼以及新能源汽⻋⻋顶集成的理想选择。预计到 2035 年，薄膜太阳能

市场的规模将超过 110 亿美元，年安装量有望接近 95 吉⽡（ GW ）。
2 、国产芯⽚⼁据中证报报道，在 2026 阿⾥云峰会上，平头哥新⼀代训推⼀体 AI 芯⽚真武 M890
⾸次亮相，该芯⽚内置 144GB 显存，⽚间互联带宽达到 800GB/s ，性能是真武 810E 的 3 倍，原
⽣⽀持 FP32 到 FP4 等多种数据精度，可应⽤于⾼精度训练、低精度和超低精度推理的全场景。
配合⾃研 ICN Switch1.0 芯⽚，可实现 64 卡全带宽互联，提升⼤规模智算集群计算的效率与稳定
性。
点评：阿⾥平头哥的真武 M890 芯⽚，其核⼼优势并不在于追求单张芯⽚的极限峰值算⼒，⽽是
通过 " 系统级优化 " 与 " 训推⼀体 " 的策略，在⼤规模集群应⽤和综合性价⽐上建⽴起了强⼤的竞争
壁垒。另外，平头哥⾸次公布真武系列芯⽚的规划，未来两年将陆续推出算⼒更强的真武
V900 、真武 J900 两代芯⽚，以满⾜ Agentic 时代千⾏百业的 AI 算⼒需求。
3 、⽹络安全⼁据中证报报道， 2026 年中国⽹络⽂明⼤会近⽇在⼴西南宁举⾏。此次⼤会专⻔设

置了⼈⼯智能赋能⽹络⽂明建设分论坛，来⾃相关领域的专家、企业嘉宾等聚焦⼈⼯智能赋能
⽹络⽂明建设，深⼊探讨了⼈⼯智能技术演进、创新发展和安全治理。论坛上，全国⽹络安全
标准化技术委员会发布了《⼈⼯智能应⽤伦理安全指引 1.0 》，进⼀步完善我国⼈⼯智能安全治理
体系。
点评：这是我国⾸个专⻔针对⼈⼯智能应⽤伦理安全的系统性指引，标志着我国 AI 治理从宏观原
则迈向了具体场景的实操阶段。与以往具有强制⼒的规范性⽂件不同，这份《指引》采取了 " 价
值引导 " 的⽅式，为 AI 的发展与治理⽴起了醒⽬的 " 路标 " 。
4 、绿电⼁据上证报报道， 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，国家发改委，国家能源局发布《关于有序推动多⽤⼾绿电
直连发展有关事项的通知》。这是在国际碳管控约束持续收紧，国内碳双控政策稳步推进的关键
节点，能源领域的⼜⼀重磅政策。《通知》指出，新建负荷可配套建设新能源电源组成多⽤⼾绿
电直连项⽬。存量负荷中，单⽤⼾绿电直连项⽬可吸纳其他新建负荷，同时配套扩建新能源电
源组成多⽤⼾绿电直连项⽬等。

点评：使⽤绿电除了满⾜政策要求，也有望实现⽤电成本的节约。不管是 " 绿电直连 " 还是 " 算电
协同 " ，都是可再⽣能源的价值重估，绿电有望迎来估值修复以及向成⻓股估值切换。
5 、智能穿戴⼁据上证报报道，⾕歌在当地时间周⼆举⾏的年度开发者⼤会（ Google I/O ）上宣
布全⾯推动 Gemini AI 智能体落地，覆盖 Chrome 浏览器，安卓⼿机，智能眼镜等全系⽣态硬

===== Page 22 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
662 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
件，现场还同步演⽰了两款⾳频眼镜的实际使⽤效果。⾕歌确认智能眼镜产品将于 2026 年秋季
上市。
点评：据测算，到 2030 年，全球 AI 智能眼镜的出货量有望达到 8000 万部，市场渗透率将提升⾄
约 4.3% 。各类智能眼镜有望成为下⼀个移动终端，引领智能穿戴设备的新⼀轮发展浪潮。
今⽇要闻前瞻
中国 4 ⽉ Swift ⼈⺠币在全球⽀付中占⽐。
美国、欧元区、英国、⽇本 5 ⽉制造业、服务业、综合 PMI 。
美国上周⾸次申请失业救济⼈数。
美国 4 ⽉新屋开⼯和营建许可。
⾥奇蒙联储主席巴尔⾦发表讲话。
沃尔玛、⽹易、 Zoom 公布财报。
2026 世界⽆⼈机⼤会开幕。
< 全⽂完 >
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 23 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 24 =====

以⾊列议会被对伊战争打崩了。
摘要：
1 、【美国正为 “ 拿下 ” 古巴准备】当地时间 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，美国司法部在迈阿密 " ⾃由塔 " 召开新闻
发布会，正式公开了⼀份由佛罗⾥达南区联邦⼤陪审团于 4 ⽉ 23 ⽇通过、随后启封的起诉
书，对 94 岁的古巴前总统劳尔 · 卡斯特罗以及其他⼏名古巴前军政⾼官提出共谋杀害美国公
⺠、毁坏航空器和四项谋杀罪指控。代理司法部⻓托德 · 布兰奇在发布会上发出了⼀句明显
是讲给哈⽡那听的话：⽆论时间过去多久，谁杀害美国⼈，美国就会追到底；他还放话
称，预期卡斯特罗 " ⾃⼰⾛来 " 或被 " 以另⼀种⽅式 " 带到美国坐牢，⼏乎不加掩饰地暗⽰了强
制引渡的可能性。
点评：  ⼀个 94 岁⼏乎不可能被引渡到美国受审、连出庭都很难的⽼⼈，在司法意义上更接
近 " 政治符号 " ⽽⾮ " 被告 " 。司法部完全清楚劳尔 · 卡斯特罗⼤概率不会⾛进迈阿密的联邦法
庭。但布兰奇那句 " ⾃⼰⾛来，或以另⼀种⽅式被带来 " ，已经把所谓 " 司法追诉 " 翻译成了它

真正想说的语⾔：交权，或承担被武⼒或法律捕获的后果。这是去年⽤在⻢杜罗⾝上的同
⼀套逻辑 —— 先做刑事定性，把⼀国元⾸钉成 " 杀美国⼈的罪犯 " ，从⽽把任何针对他的强
制⾏动预先正当化。
2 、【伊朗放狠话要让战⽕外溢】当地时间周三，伊朗伊斯兰⾰命卫队（ IRGC ）发表声
明，警告若美国再度对其发动军事打击， " 被许诺的地区战争这⼀次将外溢⾄中东之外 " 。
该声明经伊朗官⽅媒体发布，意在回应特朗普总统此前两天连续表态 —— 特朗普称⾃⼰ " 距
离下令重启军事⾏动只剩⼀个⼩时 " ，但在最后⼀刻按下了暂停键，给外交谈判再留⼀线⽣
机。然⽽⼏乎在同⼀天，特朗普⼜对国会议员表⽰，这场战争将 " 很快 " 结束，副总统万斯
则在⽩宫记者会上称美伊谈判 " 处境相当不错 " 。
点评：⾰命卫队在向德⿊兰国内强硬派和⽩宫传递的信号是：如果谈判破裂，伊朗将不再
遵守 " 区域内对等报复 " 的潜规则，可能把战⽕引向欧洲、地中海的美军部署、甚⾄更远的
⽬标。这种威胁的可信度本⾝并不⾼ —— 伊朗⽬前的远程打击能⼒在两个多⽉的消耗战后

已⼤幅下降 —— 但它有⼀个重要功能：抬⾼特朗普下⼀次按下攻击按钮的⼼理⻔槛。只要
这个⻔槛抬得够⾼，伊朗就能在谈判桌上多换⼏分筹码。⽽特朗普⼜是在玩另⼀套 “ 把
戏 ” ：  ⼀⽅⾯，他需要⽤ " 距离开战只剩⼀⼩时 " 这样的语⾔制造可信的军事威慑，否则伊朗
没有让步的动⼒；另⼀⽅⾯，他⼜必须让油价、让选⺠、让市场相信 " 战争很快结束 " 。
3 、【美联储会议纪要放鹰】美东时间 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇周三下午，美联储公布了 4 ⽉ 28-29 ⽇联邦公
开市场委员会（ FOMC ）会议的纪要，⽂件确认这是⼀次美联储内部分歧空前激化、且整
体基调明显向鹰派倾斜的会议。尽管 FOMC 仍投票决定将基准利率维持在 3.5%-3.75% ⽬标
区间不变，但此次会议出现了四张反对票，为 1992 年以来异议票数最多的⼀次。会议纪要
的核⼼信号是政策⽅向出现微妙但关键的转向。根据纪要， " 多数 " 决策者认为，如果伊朗
战事让通胀继续保持在⾼位，加息可能确有必要；与此同时 " 许多与会者表⽰，他们本希望

从会后声明中删除暗⽰易于宽松倾向的措辞 " 。
4 、【欧盟连夜⽴法对美⼯业品 " 零关税 " 】经过通宵超过五个⼩时的拉锯，欧洲议会与欧盟
理事会在当地时间周三凌晨就⼀项关键⽴法达成临时协议，将取消对美国⼯业品的全部进
⼝关税，并对部分美国海产品和农产品给予优惠市场准⼊。欧盟委员会主席冯德莱恩当⽇
表态欢迎这⼀进展，称 " 承诺就是承诺，欧盟兑现⾃⼰的那⼀份 " ，并敦促⽴法程序在中期
前完成最终批准。按⽬前安排，欧洲议会将于 6 ⽉中旬就此进⾏最终投票，赶在特朗普政
府划定的 7 ⽉ 4 ⽇ ( 美国独⽴ 250 周年 ) 最后期限之前⽣效。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 25 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
116 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
5 、【以⾊列议会被对伊战争打崩了】 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，以⾊列议会投了⼀票，决定把⾃⼰解散
—— 也就是说提前重新⼤选。 120 个议员⾥有 110 个投了赞成票，零个反对。这是⾮常罕⻅
的全票通过。
⽴即解锁全⽂
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 26 =====

特朗普表⽰，美国与伊朗的谈判已进⼊ “ 最后阶段 ” ，并称 “ 协议会达成，推动油价⼤跌、全
球股债⻬涨，市场重新交易 “ 战争⻛险降温 ” 逻辑。 WTI 原油⼤跌 5.5% 。标普 500 收涨
1.1% ，结束三连跌；纳斯达克 100 收涨 1.7% ；费城半导体指数收涨 4.5% 。英伟达盘后波
动放⼤，股价下跌。美国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 9 个基点⾄ 4.57% ；美元现货指数下跌
0.3% ；现货⻩⾦上涨 1.4% 。
摘要：
美伊谈判出现缓和信号，推动油价⼤跌、全球股债⻬涨，市场重新交易 “ 战争⻛险降温 ” 逻辑。
周三美股交易时段，市场⻛险情绪明显修复。此前因中东局势升级⽽遭抛售的股票与债券同步
反弹， WTI 原油⼤跌 5.5% ，报每桶 98.47 美元，布油盘中跌超 7% 。
美国总统特朗普表⽰，美国与伊朗的谈判已进⼊ “ 最后阶段 ” ，并称 “ 协议会达成，否则我们会做
⼀些不太好看的事情，但希望不会发⽣ ” 。
与此同时，媒体报道称，伊朗正在审阅美国针对伊⽅ “14 点⽅案 ” 的最新草案，尚未正式回应。伊

朗总统佩泽希⻬扬则在 X 平台表⽰，伊朗 “ 已探索⼀切途径避免战争 ” 。
市场随即开始重新定价 “ 中东⻛险溢价 ” 。
资深策略师 Louis Navellier 表⽰，市场希望局势尽快结束，但双⽅在关键议题上的⽴场仍相距甚
远， “ 即使达成协议，也需要时间确认协议不会再次破裂，市场才可能真正恢复正常。 ”
Interactive Brokers 分析师 Steve Sosnick 则称，市场已经多次在 “ 谈判乐观情绪 ” 下反弹，但真正
看到实质进展之前，投资者仍保持谨慎。
此前，市场⼀度担忧伊朗局势可能推动能源价格进⼀步飙升，并重新点燃全球通胀压⼒。美联
储会议纪要也显⽰，多数官员仍担⼼通胀持续⾼于⽬标，不排除未来继续加息的可能。
截⾄美股收盘，标普 500 指数上涨 1.1% ，结束三连跌；纳斯达克 100 指数上涨 1.7% ；道琼斯
⼯业平均指数上涨 1.3% ；费城半导体指数⼤涨 4.5% 。全球航空业 ETF 反弹 6.57% 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 27 =====

美股：科技股领涨，芯⽚板块强势反弹
截⾄美股收盘，标普 500 指数上涨 1.1% ，结束三连跌；纳斯达克 100 指数上涨 1.7% ；道琼斯⼯业
平均指数上涨 1.3% ；费城半导体指数⼤涨 4.5% 。⼤型科技股成为市场反弹核⼼动⼒。
英伟达财报发布后，股价盘后波动放⼤。
英伟达财报发布后，股价盘后波动放⼤，震荡下跌。⾼盛收涨 5.8% ，创 2025 年 4 ⽉份以来最
⼤单⽇涨幅，股价创收盘历史新⾼。
WTI 原油⼤跌 5.5% ，报每桶 98.47 美元。布伦特原油同样下跌 5.5% ，报每桶 105.16 美元。
美国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 9 个基点⾄ 4.57% ；德国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 10 个基点⾄
3.10% ；英国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 14 个基点⾄ 4.99%
美元现货指数下跌 0.3% 。
现货⻩⾦上涨 1.4% ，报 4546.74 美元 / 盎司。
⽐特币上涨 0.8% ，⾄ 77564.21 美元。

===== Page 28 =====

瑞银指出，所谓的“ 和平交易 ” 正在进⾏中，航空公司股票的表现显著优于具有中东韧性的股
票。全球航空业 ETF 反弹 6.57% 。
尽管市场⼤幅反弹，但⾼盛 Prime Book 指出，对冲基⾦本⽉仍在持续抛售美国股票，宏观产品
（指数 +ETF ）的空头头⼨已超过伊朗停⽕前的⽔平，并达到 10 年来的最⾼点。

===== Page 29 =====

企业层⾯，多家公司继续围绕 AI 主题展开动作：
OpenAI 据悉正准备在未来⼏周内提交 IPO 申请，⽬标于秋季上市； Intuit 宣布裁员约 3000 ⼈，占
员⼯总数 17% ，以削减成本并加⼤ AI 投⼊； Lowe’s 维持全年业绩指引不变，称 AI 提⾼了运营效
率； Target 对未来消费前景释放谨慎信号； TJX 上调全年销售预期，反映消费者继续偏好折扣零
售。
债市：⻓债收益率回落，避险交易降温
今天，加息预期与油价同步暴跌（但由于美联储会议纪要中鹰派倾向，加息预期的削减受到⼀
定程度的阻碍）。  昨天，市场普遍认为 2026 年加息的概率⼏乎为 100% ，但随着油价下跌，这⼀
概率降⾄ 50% ，随后随着会议纪要的公布，该概率⼜回升⾄ 75% 左右。
收益率全线下跌。美国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 9 个基点⾄ 4.57% ；德国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 10
个基点⾄ 3.10% ；英国 10 年期国债收益率下跌 14 个基点⾄ 4.99% 。此前，⻓端美债收益率⼀度升

⾄ 2007 年以来⾼位。

===== Page 30 =====

“ 我很想相信这⼀点，但说实话：我们以前听过多少次这种说法了？ ”在特朗普发表讲话后，
Bank of Nassau 1982 的⾸席经济学家 Win Thin 说道。
这并⾮投资者第⼀次押注于⼀项有意义的和平协议。3 ⽉下旬，由于特朗普推迟对伊朗的打击⾏
动，美国国债价格与⽯油价格同步上涨，但此后收益率已超过上个⽉的⾼点，因为投资者已将
全球能源市场⻓期中断导致的通胀加剧计⼊价格。
外汇：美元⾛弱，欧元英镑上涨
外汇市场⽅⾯：美元现货指数下跌 0.3% ；欧元上涨 0.2% ⾄ 1.1628 美元；英镑上涨 0.3% ⾄
1.3439 美元；⽇元兑美元上涨 0.1% ⾄ 158.88 。美元回落主要受美债收益率下⾏拖累，同时市场
避险需求阶段性下降。
ING 的货币和固定收益策略师 Frantisek Taborsky 认为，美元近期的⼤部分涨幅与美国国债的暴
跌有关，由于通胀加速和伊朗战争的影响， 10 年期国债收益率在⼀个⽉内上升了  35 个基点以
上。
“ 值得重申的是，与 2025 年不同，此次债券市场抛售是由通胀担忧⽽⾮财政担忧驱动的，这⽆疑

对美元有利，因此，除⾮海湾地区传来真正具有建设性意义的消息，否则美元上⾏⻛险依然占主
导地位。 ”

===== Page 31 =====

美国银⾏分析师亚历克斯 · 科恩认为，投资者仍然押注伊朗战争将在近期结束，霍尔⽊兹海峡将
重新开放，这将最终促成美联储降息。但其表⽰⻓期依然看涨：
⼤宗商品：原油暴跌，⻩⾦⾛⾼
WTI 原油⼤跌 5.5% ，报每桶 98.47 美元。美国原油商业储量和战略⽯油储备（ SPR ）创纪录的周
降幅、过去 24 ⼩时内共有26 艘船只通过霍尔⽊兹海峡、以及特朗普总统暗⽰与伊朗的协议即将
达成，所有这些因素都导致今⽇原油价格下跌。
特朗普表⽰，美国和伊朗结束冲突的谈判已进⼊ “ 最后阶段 ” 。特朗普没有给出时间表，但向德
⿊兰发出警告，要么达成协议，要么 “ 我们将采取⼀些不太光彩的措施 ” 。
彭博社的能源专家对此的表述最为简洁明了：
由于有关中东和平的新⼀轮令⼈⿎舞的消息传来，华盛顿和德⿊兰之间的协议草案即将 “ 敲定 ” ，
随后特朗普表⽰美国与伊朗的谈判已进⼊ “ 最后阶段 ” ， WTI 近⽉期货（ 2026 年 7 ⽉）再次跌破
100 美元。
美元⾛软推动现货⻩⾦上涨 1.4% ，报 4546.74 美元 / 盎司。

“ 从强劲的经济数据、股市优异表现、美联储最终加息的⻛险以及相对良好的整体仓位来看，美
元情绪如此低迷着实令⼈惊讶。但就短期⽽⾔，我们质疑美元还能跌多少，⻛险平衡仍然指向上
涨 ”
“ 你可以随便评价美国总统唐纳德 · 特朗普，但不得不承认，他真的很擅⻓操纵⽯油市场。⾮常擅
⻓。 ”

===== Page 32 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
1482 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
跟随⼤型科技股⾛⾼，⽐特币上涨 0.8% ，报 77564.21 美元。

限免
请发表您的评论

===== Page 33 =====

图⽚
表情 发布评论

===== Page 34 =====

亚⻢逊创始⼈⻉索斯接受 CNBC 专访，就多项议题表态。税收⽅⾯，他⽀持免除低收⼊群
体所得税，但拒绝提⾼富⼈税率，称美国财政问题源于政府超⽀。他为富⼈阶层辩护，批
评政界将富⼈塑造为 " 恶棍 " 的做法。在 AI 议题上，他反对过早监管，驳斥 AI 抢占就业的论
断。他给予特朗普正⾯评价，称其 " 更成熟⾃律 " 。
摘要：
亚⻢逊创始⼈杰夫 · ⻉索斯在公开专访中，就财富、税收、⼈⼯智能及特朗普政府等议题表态。
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，⻉索斯接受 CNBC 专访时表⽰，美国已陷⼊ " 两种经济并存 " 的困境，他⽀持取消收⼊
最低⼀半美国⼈的所得税，这⼀政策主张与部分⺠主党⼈⽴场相近。
但他拒绝提⾼富⼈税率，称美国财政问题源于政府超⽀。他为富⼈阶层辩护，批评政界将富⼈
塑造为 " 恶棍 " 的做法。
在 AI 议题上，他反对过早监管，驳斥 AI 抢占就业的论断。与此同时，他对特朗普给予⾼度评价，
称其是 " ⽐第⼀任期更成熟、更⾃律的⾃⼰ " 。
税收⽴场：减负低收⼊者，拒绝 " 劫富济贫 " 逻辑

⻉索斯在采访开篇即以相对平⺠化的⼝吻切⼊税收话题：
他以此⽀持为美国收⼊最低⼀半⼈群免除所得税的⽅案。
然⽽，他拒绝将这⼀主张与提⾼富⼈税率挂钩。⻉索斯表⽰，美国已拥有 " 全世界最累进的税收
体系 " ，财政问题的根源在于政府超⽀⽽⾮税收不⾜。
他同时否认⾃⾝逃避税负的指控：
他强调：
他还直接回应了外界关于富⼈利⽤ " 买⼊、借贷、死亡 " （ buy, borrow, die ）策略规避税收的批
评，称 " 这件事毫⽆事实依据 " ，并表⽰⾃⼰⼀直在持续出售亚⻢逊股票。
对于埃隆 · ⻢斯克以股票质押借款⼀事，⻉索斯表⽰ " 有些怀疑这是否真的构成漏洞，但如果是的
话，那就应该堵上 " 。
皇后区⼀位年薪 7.5 万美元的护⼠，每年要缴纳超过 1.2 万美元的税。这真的合理吗？
我缴纳了数⼗亿美元的税款。
即便将其税负翻倍，也⽆法帮助那位皇后区的护⼠，我向你保证。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 35 =====

为富⼈阶层辩护，反对 " 树⽴恶棍 " 的政治逻辑
尽管在税收问题上做出⼀定程度的让步姿态，⻉索斯随即对政界将富⼈塑造为社会问题根源的
做法提出批评。
他将这种做法称为 " 挑选恶棍、指责他⼈ " 的 " 古⽼⼿法 " ，并警告 " 这解决不了任何问题 " 。
他点名批评纽约市⻓ Zohran Mamdani 在发布新 " 第⼆居所税 " 时，站在对冲基⾦ Citadel CEO
Ken Griffin 的住所前、将其塑造为 " 恶棍 " 的⾏为。⻉索斯称：
Mamdani 随后在 X 平台回应称：
对于 " 亿万富翁的财富不可能通过正当⼿段积累 " 的说法，⻉索斯以快餐连锁品牌 In-N-Out Burger
和 Raising Cane's 为例予以反驳 :
看好 AI ：反对过早监管，驳斥 " 抢饭碗 " 论
在⼈⼯智能议题上，⻉索斯持明确乐观⽴场，他驳斥 AI 将导致⼤规模失业的判断，称持此观点的
⼈ " 完全错了 " ，认为 AI 将提升⼯⼈能⼒，并通过提⾼⽣产效率带来多个⾏业的价格下降。

他将 AI 编程⼯具⽐作 " 铲⼦升级为推⼟机 " ，认为这类⼯具不会取代软件⼯程师，⽽是帮助程序员
在更⾼层次上解决问题。不过，他同时提出警告：
⽪尤研究中⼼近期调查显⽰，半数美国成年⼈对 AI 在⽇常⽣活中的应⽤感到忧虑多于期待，受访
者对 AI 在教育和就业领域的影响普遍持悲观态度。
评价特朗普：成熟、⾃律，与政界保持⾮党派接触
⻉索斯对特朗普给予正⾯评价，称其是 " ⽐第⼀任期更成熟、更⾃律的⾃⼰ " ，并表⽰ " 特朗普有
很多好主意，他在很多事情上是对的，应该给予应有的肯定 " ，但未作具体说明。
他否认亚⻢逊出品梅拉尼娅 · 特朗普⾼价纪录⽚是为了讨好总统的说法，称这是 " ⼀个不肯消散的
谎⾔ " 。
⻉索斯强调其⽴场超越党派，称同样与⺠主党前总统奥巴⻢和拜登保持联系。他说 :
Ken Griffin 不是恶棍，他没有伤害任何⼈，他没有伤害纽约，事实恰恰相反。
我认识皇后区⼏位⽼师，他们会持不同意⻅。
你积累 10 亿美元的⽅式，是创造⼀项⼈们热爱的服务。如果数百万⼈选择你的服务，你最终就

会拥有 10 亿美元。
上述积极效果的前提是让这项技术⾃然演进，不要过早⽤监管将其束缚。

===== Page 36 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
67 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
⽆论谁是总统，我们的商界领袖都需要向⾏政当局提供意⻅，我站在美国这⼀边。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 37 =====

Q1 英伟达营收创逾⼀年最⾼同⽐增速；数据中⼼业务营收同⽐增 92% 、环⽐前纪录增
21% ，其中计算收⼊低于预期； EPS 同⽐翻⼀倍多，⽑利率环⽐略降⾄ 75% 、略⾼于预
期。 Q2 营收指引⾼于预期均值但低于最乐观预期，且不含中国数据中⼼计算收⼊；季度股
息⼤幅提⾼ 24 倍⾄ 0.25 美元。英伟达称，向分为数据中⼼和边缘计算两⼤平台的新版财报
框架过渡。盘后股价转跌，⼀度跌超 3% 。
摘要：
全球 AI 产业链的 “ 总⻰头 ” 英伟达毫⽆悬念地交出了⼀份⽐华尔街平均预期更强劲的收⼊成绩单，
但并没有以往的超预期幅度那么亮眼。
美东时间 20 ⽇周三，英伟达公布，截⾄ 2026 年 4 ⽉ 26 ⽇的公司 2027 财年第⼀财季（ “ ⼀季度 ” ），
营收同⽐增⻓ 85% ⾄ 816.2 亿美元，较分析师预期⾼将近 3.1% 。核⼼业务数据中⼼的营收 752 亿
美元，贡献公司九成以上营收，和总营收均继续刷新单季最⾼纪录，显⽰ AI 算⼒需求仍是英伟达
增⻓的绝对主线。

⼀季度英伟达盈利同样强劲，⾮ GAAP ⼝径下调整后每股收益（ EPS ）同⽐增⻓ 140% ⾄ 1.87 美
元，较上⼀季明显加快增⻓，较分析师预期⾼将近 6.3% 。同⼝径下当季⽑利率为 75.0% ，略低
于上⼀季创⼀年半来最⾼⽔平，但⾼于分析师预期的 74.5% 。
美银分析师 Vivek Arya 团队在财报公布前指出，英伟达过去⼗个季度的实际营收平均超出管理层
指引 7% ⾄ 8% ，该司此前的营收指引中值为 780 亿美元，据此推算，按以往规律，⼀季度营收应
在 830 亿⾄ 840 亿美元。⽽本次公布的实际营收⽐这个预期区间的低端还低将近 1.7% ，较区间⾼
端低 2.8% 。
英伟达此次给出的第⼆财季（ “ ⼆季度 ” ）营收指引中值 910 亿美元，再创单季纪录，⾼于分析师
预期均值、但低于最乐观预期 960 亿美元。该司还特别说明，此指引未计⼊来⾃中国的任何数据
中⼼计算业务营收，这意味着当前指引主要依靠中国以外市场需求⽀撑，也为未来潜在增量留
下空间。
资本回报⽅⾯，英伟达董事会授权追加 800 亿美元的股票回购规模，同时将季度股息从每股 0.01

美元⼤幅提⾼⾄ 0.25 美元。这反映出公司现⾦流和盈利能⼒依然充沛，也显⽰管理层愿意在⾼位
继续通过回购⽀撑股东回报。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 38 =====

财报公布后，周三本已收涨 1.3% 的英伟达股价盘后震荡，先转跌并⼀度跌超 3% ，后转涨超
1% ，此后⼜转跌，⽬前跌超 1% 。分析认为，其背后核⼼⽭盾在于：财报业绩本⾝依然强劲，但
市场此前对英伟达的预期已极⾼，投资者更关注的是超预期幅度是否⾜够⼤，以及新版财报框
架下的业务可⽐性和增⻓质量如何重新定价。
Q1 营收创⼀年多最⾼增速  但市场已经习惯英伟达 “ 更⼤幅度 ” 超预期
英伟达⼀季度营收 816.2 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 85% ，创截⾄ 2024 年 10 ⽉末的 2025 财年第三财季以
来最⾼单季增速，较上⼀季的增速 73% 提速，总营收较分析师预期 791.9 亿美元⾼出 24.3 亿美
元。
从营收的绝对规模看，英伟达仍录得⾮常强劲的业绩，尤其是在公司收⼊基数已经极⾼的情况
下，继续实现超预期并不容易。
但对英伟达⽽⾔，市场的衡量标准已经不同于普通的蓝筹科技股。过去多个季度，英伟达依靠 AI
GPU 、数据中⼼加速计算需求持续给出远超预期的收⼊和指引，投资者逐渐形成了 “ 必须显著超

预期 ” 的交易习惯。
因此，这份财报的关键不是 “ 有没有超预期 ” ，⽽是 “ 超预期是否⾜以⽀撑当前估值和此前涨幅 ” 。
⼀季度营收并未明显改写市场对于公司短期增⻓斜率的判断，这也是股价盘后出现抛压的重要
原因之⼀。
数据中⼼收⼊同⽐增 92% 、环⽐前纪录增 21% ， AI 主线仍然强劲
⼀季度数据中⼼业务的营收同⽐增⻓ 92% ⾄ 752 亿美元，较分析师预期 734.8 亿美元⾼约 2.3% ，
较上⼀季所创的该业务收⼊前纪录⾼ 21% 。

===== Page 39 =====

数据中⼼业务⼀季度约占总营收的 92% ，说明英伟达当前⼏乎已经成为⼀家⾼度由 AI 数据中⼼资
本开⽀驱动的公司。
这组数据释放的正⾯信号很明确：全球云⼚商、企业客⼾和 AI 基础设施投资仍在继续，训练和推
理需求仍对英伟达⾼端 GPU 、⽹络产品和整套数据中⼼解决⽅案形成⽀撑。只要 AI 资本开⽀周
期没有明显降温，英伟达的核⼼收⼊来源就仍具备较强韧性。
但这也带来⼀个潜在问题：市场对数据中⼼业务的依赖程度越来越⾼。当数据中⼼占⽐超过九
成，投资者对该业务的任何边际变化都会极其敏感。即便 752 亿美元本⾝超预期，只要增⻓速度
没有明显⾼于此前乐观假设，股价也可能出现 “ 利好兑现 ” 式波动。
此外，按照以前的财报框架，数据中⼼业务中的数据中⼼计算收⼊同⽐增⻓ 77% ，增⾄创纪录
的 604 亿美元，仍低于分析师预期的将近 611 亿美元，环⽐增 18% ；当季数据中⼼⽹络收⼊同⽐
增 199% ⾄ 148 亿美元、也创新⾼。
EPS 增速重新加快，⽑利率⾼位稳定
盈利能⼒是本季财报的另⼀⼤亮点。

英伟达⼀季度⾮ GAAP 调整后 EPS 为 1.87 美元，⾼于市场预期 1.76 美元，同⽐增速达到 140% 。
相⽐上⼀季度 82% 的同⽐增速，本季度利润增速明显重新加快，显⽰收⼊增⻓仍在⾼效转化为
利润增⻓。
⽑利率⽅⾯，⾮ GAAP ⽑利率为 75.0% ，⾼于市场预期的 74.5% ，同⽐⼤幅提升 14.2 个百分点。
这⼀⽔平对半导体公司⽽⾔极⾼，反映出英伟达在 AI 芯⽚、系统、软件⽣态和供应链议价中的优
势地位。
但从环⽐看，⽑利率较上⼀季度 75.1% 略低 0.1 个百分点。这个变化并不⼤，也谈不上明显压
⼒，但对于估值已经很⾼的英伟达来说，市场会⾮常敏感地观察⽑利率是否已经接近阶段性⾼
点。尤其在产品切换、供应链扩张和客⼾结构变化过程中，投资者会关注后续⽑利率能否继续
维持在 75% 左右的⾼位。

===== Page 40 =====

⼆季度营收指引⾼于预期   且不含中国数据中⼼计算收⼊
英伟达预计⼆季度营收为 910 亿美元、上下浮动 2% ，即 891.8 亿美元⾄ 928.2 亿美元，⾼于分析
师预期均值 870 亿美元，但还低于最乐观预期 960 亿美元。⼆季度⾮ GAAP ⼝径下⽑利率预计为
75.0% ，上下浮动 50 个基点，即 74.5% ⾄ 75.5% 。
考虑到英伟达在其展望中并未计⼊来⾃中国的任何数据中⼼计算业务营收，⼆季度的指引⽆疑
稳健。
英伟达称指引不含上述中国市场部分收⼊有两层含义。
⼀⽅⾯，这体现了公司对中国相关业务的不确定性采取了较为保守的处理⽅式。在出⼝管制、
产品合规和地缘政治⻛险持续存在的背景下，英伟达没有把中国数据中⼼计算收⼊纳⼊⼆季度
指引，有助于降低指引兑现⻛险。
另⼀⽅⾯，这也让⼆季度 910 亿美元的指引显得更有分量。也就是说，即便没有计⼊中国数据中
⼼计算业务，公司仍预计营收显著⾼于市场预期，说明中国以外地区的数据中⼼需求⾜够强
劲。如果未来中国相关业务出现边际改善，理论上还可能带来额外上⾏空间。

800 亿美元回购与⼤幅上调派息，显⽰现⾦充裕但难以成为股价主线
英伟达董事会授权追加 800 亿美元股票回购，这是⼀个相当可观的资本回报计划。与此同时，公
司将季度股息从每股 0.01 美元提⾼⾄ 0.25 美元，增幅达 24 倍。该笔股息将于 2026 年  6 ⽉ 26 ⽇⽀
付。
这说明英伟达管理层对公司现⾦流和⻓期盈利能⼒有信⼼。对于⼤型科技股⽽⾔，⼤规模回购
通常可以在股价波动时提供⼀定⽀撑，也有助于提⾼每股收益表现。
不过，对英伟达这类⾼成⻓、⾼估值股票来说，股息和回购通常不是市场定价的第⼀变量。投
资者真正关⼼的仍是 AI 芯⽚需求、数据中⼼收⼊增速、产品迭代节奏、供给能⼒和利润率趋势。
换⾔之， 800 亿美元回购是利好，但很难单独抵消市场对 “ 增⻓惊喜不⾜ ” 的担忧。

===== Page 41 =====

新版财报框架带来重新定价过程
英伟达同时披露，公司正在向新的财报框架过渡，该框架能更准确地反映其当前及未来的增⻓
驱动⼒切换⾄新版报告框架。具体⽽⾔，这种框架是：
以上变化本⾝不⼀定是负⾯，但会影响投资者对不同业务线的可⽐性分析。
对于英伟达⽽⾔，市场⻓期跟踪的核⼼指标包括数据中⼼收⼊、游戏业务、专业可视化、汽⻋
与机器⼈等板块表现。报告⼝径调整后，投资者需要重新理解各业务的边界、收⼊归类⽅式以
及同⽐ / 环⽐趋势。
这类调整有时会增加财报发布初期的交易噪⾳。尤其是英伟达这类⾼度被量化资⾦、期权资⾦
和⾼频交易关注的公司，盘后交易往往会先对  headline 数据作出反应，再根据电话会和报告细
节重新定价。新版报告框架可能也是股价盘后震荡的原因之⼀。
对于⻓期投资者来说，报告框架调整本⾝未必改变公司的基本⾯，但会对短期模型⽐较产⽣影
响。分析师需要重新梳理不同业务线之间的归类⽅式、历史⼝径的可⽐性，以及新框架下哪些
指标更能反映核⼼增⻓动能。
英伟达设⽴两⼤市场平台 —— 数据中⼼（ Data Center ）和边缘计算（ Edge Computing ）。

在数据中⼼平台内部，将披露两个细分市场的数据：超⼤规模（ Hyperscale ）市场，以及  ACIE
市场（涵盖  AI 云、⼯业应⽤及企业级应⽤）。
其中，超⼤规模市场将包含来⾃公有云服务商及全球顶尖消费互联⽹公司的营收。 ACIE 市场则
旨在展现英伟达在各⾏各业及全球各地，针对各类专为  AI ⽤途构建的数据中⼼及 “AI ⼯⼚ ” 所蕴
藏的增⻓机遇。
边缘计算平台则重点涵盖各类⽤于⽀持 Agentic AI 及实体  AI 的数据处理设备，具体包括个⼈电
脑（ PC ）、游戏主机、⼯作站、 AI-RAN 基站、机器⼈设备以及汽⻋系统。

===== Page 42 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
1090 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
2 条评论
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
哥斯拉1 ⼩时前中国⼴东省
0  回复
现在更多的靠涨价
⻅闻⽤⼾2 ⼩时前中国上海
0  回复
庞⽒骗局

===== Page 43 =====

SpaceX 正式启动 IPO ，招股书披露其估值超 1.5 万亿美元。核⼼业务 Starlink 订阅⽤⼾达
1000 万，年营收逾 110 亿美元。公司计划 2028 年部署轨道 AI 计算卫星星座，并布局⽉球及
⽕星基础设施。⻢斯克股权激励与⽕星百万居⺠殖⺠地⽬标挂钩。
摘要：
SpaceX 正式迈向公开市场， IPO 招股书披露了⼀幅雄⼼勃勃的商业蓝图。
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇招股书显⽰，SpaceX 核⼼业务 Starlink 订阅⽤⼾达 1000 万，年营收逾 110 亿美元。公司
计划 2028 年部署轨道 AI 计算卫星星座，并布局⽉球及⽕星基础设施。
此外，⻢斯克的受限股奖励与 SpaceX 市值⾥程碑直接挂钩，同时与在⽕星建⽴永久性⼈类殖⺠
地的进展相关联，最终触发条件为该殖⺠地拥有⾄少 100 万名居⺠。
这⼀安排意味着，⻢斯克能否最终兑现其最⼤规模的股权回报，取决于⼈类能否真正实现跨星
球定居。
对于市场⽽⾔，此次 IPO 的核⼼悬念在于估值的合理性。若以 1.5 万亿美元估值成⾏， SpaceX 的

市销率将⾼达 80 倍，远超美国前 15 ⼤市值公司约 7 倍销售额的整体⽔平，⽽公司 2025 年净亏损
⾼达 49 亿美元。
Starlink 撑起营收基本盘，订阅⽤⼾⼀年翻番
Starlink 是⽬前⽀撑 SpaceX 财务表现的核⼼业务。
招股书显⽰，截⾄ 2025 年 3 ⽉底， Starlink 的卫星互联⽹服务订阅⽤⼾约达 1000 万，较⼀年前翻
番。
包含 Starlink 宽带业务的部⻔ 2025 年全年录得逾 110 亿美元收⼊，占公司总营收约 187 亿美元的绝
⼤部分。
SpaceX 在招股书中将 AT&T 和 Verizon 等电信巨头列为竞争对⼿，并表⽰ Starlink 未来有望从上述
企业⼿中夺取更⼤的⾼速互联⽹市场份额。
公司现有约 1 万颗卫星在低地球轨道运⾏，并强调 "Starlink 能够向地球上任意地点提供宽带连
接 " 。
轨道 AI 计算卫星星座，最早 2028 年部署
除 Starlink 之外， SpaceX 在招股书中将轨道 AI 计算卫星定位为下⼀个重⼤增⻓引擎，并计划最早

于 2028 年启动部署。公司在招股书中写道：
招股书显⽰，实现这⼀⽬标的关键依赖于星舰（ Starship ）⽕箭完成其既定性能⽬标，以实现具
备经济可⾏性的在轨部署。
轨道 AI 计算是⼀项极具挑战性的技术难题，我们相信⾃⼰是唯⼀拥有商业可⾏路径、能够⼤规模
构建轨道 AI 计算能⼒的公司。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 44 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
258 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
此次融资所得资⾦将被⽤于 AI 计算基础设施建设、卫星发射及相关业务拓展。
此外， SpaceX 还在招股书中披露了在⽉球和⽕星建⽴制造业基础设施的计划，进⼀步勾勒出其
⻓期星际布局。
财务亏损深重，估值逻辑考验投资者
SpaceX 的财务状况在拟上市的超⼤市值科技公司中显得尤为特殊。
2025 年公司实现营收约 187 亿美元，但净亏损⾼达 49 亿美元。相⽐之下，估值处于同⼀量级的
Meta 去年营收是 SpaceX 的逾 11 倍，净利润达 600 亿美元。
若 IPO 估值最终落在 1.5 万亿美元以上， SpaceX 的市销率将达到约 80 倍，⽽美国前 15 ⼤市值公司
的整体市销率仅约为 7 倍。
这⼀定价逻辑与⻢斯克旗下另⼀家公司特斯拉颇为相似 —— 后者因在 AI 、⼈形机器⼈及 Robotaxi

上的⼤规模投⼊， 2025 年利润极为微薄，却依然以接近 400 倍的滚动市盈率交投。
分析认为，押注 SpaceX 或特斯拉的投资者，本质上是在相信⻢斯克能够将当下的巨额投⼊兑换
成遥远未来的巨⼤价值。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⻅闻⽤⼾2 ⼩时前中国上海
0  回复
轨道算⼒？真是挑战⼈类智商极限，当每个⼈都是傻⼦？

===== Page 45 =====

Anthropic ⼆季度营收预计达 109 亿美元，增幅约 130% ，并将⾸次实现运营利润 5.59 亿美
元。如今其季度营收增速，已超过了 Zoom 在疫情期间、以及⾕歌和 Facebook 在各⾃ IPO
前⼣的增⻓速度。分析显⽰， Anthropic 推理⽑利率已从 38% 跃升⾄ 70% 以上，年化收⼊飙
升⾄逾 440 亿美元。
摘要：
当地时间周三，据《华尔街⽇报》报道， Anthropic 的营收预计将在第⼆季度增⻓⼀倍以上，达
到 109 亿美元。这⼀爆发式的增⻓速度，将帮助该公司⾸次实现运营盈利。
作为⼀轮正在进⾏的融资的⼀部分，该公司向投资者披露了上述数据。这轮融资很可能会将其
估值推⾼⾄超过 OpenAI 。这些预测让外界得以⼀窥这家初创公司的⻜速崛起 —— 它曾在⼈⼯智
能竞赛中处于落后地位，⽽如今的表现也打破了 “AI 公司巨额的⽀出需求会拖累其近期盈利能⼒ ”
这⼀传统观念。
Anthropic ⼀季度营收 48 亿美元，⼆季度预计 109 亿美元，单季增幅约 127% 。如今其季度营收

增速，已超过了 Zoom 在疫情期间、以及⾕歌和 Facebook 在各⾃ IPO 前⼣的增⻓速度。该公司
预计将在 6 ⽉当季实现 5.59 亿美元的运营利润。
Anthropic ⾸席执⾏官 Dario Amodei 在本⽉初旧⾦⼭开发者⼤会上开玩笑说：
去年夏天， Anthropic 曾向投资者提供过⼀组财务数据，当时的数据显⽰该公司预计⾄少要到
2028 年才能实现全年盈利。由于庞⼤的计算需求，该公司计划增加⽀出，因此可能⽆法在全年
都保持盈利。其运营利润包含了训练新模型的成本，但不包括股权激励⽀出。
⽽驱动公司现在这⼀增⻓的核⼼，是企业客⼾对其编程⼯具的爆发式需求。⾃今年年初，全球
各地企业争相采⽤ Anthropic 旗下⼀系列 AI 编程⼯具， Claude 模型也因 “ 智能体（ Agentic ） ” 能⼒
⾛红 —— 即能够⻓时间持续⼯作、⾃主完成复杂任务。
当前， Anthropic 、 OpenAI 和 SpaceX 正竞相迈向公开上市，这三家公司的估值都有可能超过 1 万

亿美元，这印证了投资者对 AI 重塑各⾏各业及市场的期待。据媒体报道， OpenAI 最快可能在本
周五提交⽂件，表明其 IPO 计划，⽽ SpaceX 预计最快将于 6 ⽉上市。
盈利逻辑：不只是收⼊增⻓
营收的增⻓显⽰出，随着这场竞赛的持续展开，不同参与者的命运能够发⽣多么迅速的变化。
⼏个⽉前，美国⽩宫曾将该公司列为安全⻛险，特朗普指⽰联邦机构切断与 Anthropic 的合作关
系。此前，该公司拒绝同意国防部提出的、允许其技术被部署⽤于所有合法⽤途的要求。⾃那
以后，双⽅关系有所改善，其中⼀个原因是 Anthropic 多次就其 Mythos 模型与美国政府官员会⾯
—— 出于潜在的⽹络安全⻛险考虑，该模型仅向⼀⼩部分公司发布。
对 Anthropic 产品的需求使其计算资源承压，并迫使其限制部分⽤⼾的访问权限。为帮助扩⼤产
能，该公司近⼏周签署了⼀系列新的数据中⼼协议，其中包括与⻢斯克的 SpaceX 达成的协议。
营收增⻓已经变得 “ 太难应付了 ” ，我希望能看到⼀些更正常的数字。

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 46 =====

更值得关注的是公司成本结构的改善。
⼀季度， Anthropic 每赚 1 美元，要在算⼒上花费 71 美分。到⼆季度，这⼀数字预计降⾄ 56 美
分。也就是说，随着规模扩⼤，它的钱越来越好赚。
据研究机构 SemiAnalysis 的最新分析， Anthropic 的推理⽑利率已从 38% 跃升⾄ 70% 以上，年化
收⼊在数⽉内从 90 亿美元飙升⾄逾 440 亿美元。
华尔街⻅闻提及， SemiAnalysis 指出，背后有两个关键因素：
其⼀， Token ⽣产成本⼤幅下降。  以 Claude Code 的实际使⽤场景为例，由于智能体⼯作负载
具有极⾼的缓存命中率（超过 90% ），绝⼤多数 Token 落⼊最低计费档。 SemiAnalysis 估算，
Opus 4.7 在智能体任务上的真实混合成本约为每百万 Token 0.99 美元，远低于标价的每百万输
⼊ Token 5 美元。
其⼆，⽤⼾结构向⾼端迁移。  ⼤量⽤⼾从低价的 Sonnet 系列切换⾄⾼端的 Opus 系列，推⾼了混

合平均售价（ ASP ）。即便 Anthropic 对 Opus 系列⼤幅降价， SemiAnalysis 认为其单位⽑利实际
上有所提升 —— 因为硬件升级同步压低了⽣产成本。
SemiAnalysis 还披露了⼀个细节：其团队在 Anthropic Claude 上的年化⽀出峰值已达 1095 万美
元，每名员⼯每⽉消耗 Token 量接近 50 亿个，是 Meta 内部⼈均⽤量的 5 倍以上。   ⼤量原本需要初
级分析师数⼩时完成的⼯作 —— 包括财务建模、数据可视化、盈利分析 —— 如今只需数美元的
Token ⽀出即可完成。
Anthropic 主要使⽤⾕歌和亚⻢逊开发的芯⽚，成本通常低于英伟达产品。同时，相⽐ OpenAI ，
它在数据中⼼未来⽀出上承诺更为保守，消费者业务体量也更⼩ —— 不需要像 ChatGPT 那样补
贴⼤量免费⽤⼾。
⾼利润率能持续吗？
SemiAnalysis 对此给出了两个判断。
第⼀，前沿闭源模型与开源模型之间的能⼒差距依然显著。  以 Kimi K2.6 （每百万 Token 约 0.95

美元 /4 美元）为代表的低价开源模型，对 Anthropic 的⾼端定价⼏乎不构成实质性压制。
第⼆，算⼒约束本⾝就是护城河。  任何⼀家前沿实验室都⽆法独⾃服务整个市场。 Anthropic 已
通过将 Claude Code 锁定在 100 美元以上⽉订阅⻔槛、限制第三⽅接⼊等⽅式主动管理需求端。
Token 需求在可预⻅的未来将持续超出供给，这意味着能提供真正前沿质量的实验室，可以按照
Token 所创造的经济价值来定价，⽽⾮仅仅参考竞争性成本。
不过， Anthropic 此前向投资者提供的预测显⽰，公司预计⾄少要到 2028 年才能实现全年盈利。
由于计算需求庞⼤，公司计划持续加⼤⽀出，全年保持盈利仍存在不确定性。此外， Anthropic
⽬前尚不需要遵守上市公司的财务报告要求，其具体会计⽅法外界⽆从核实。
值得注意的是， Anthropic 将通过云合作伙伴销售其技术所得计⼊营收，⽽ OpenAI 不这样做，两
家公司之间的营收数据并不直接可⽐。 Anthropic 发⾔⼈表⽰，这⼀做法 " 符合标准会计惯例，因

为公司在相关交易中是主要责任⽅ " 。
竞争格局：三家独⻆兽同步冲刺上市
Anthropic 、 OpenAI 和 SpaceX 正竞相迈向公开上市，三家公司的估值均有望超过 1 万亿美元。

===== Page 47 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
152 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
据《华尔街⽇报》报道， OpenAI 最快可能在本周五提交 IPO ⽂件， SpaceX 预计最快将于 6 ⽉上
市。
与此同时， Anthropic 与美国政府的关系也在改善。此前，⽩宫曾将其列为安全⻛险，特朗普指
⽰联邦机构切断与 Anthropic 的合作 —— 起因是该公司拒绝同意国防部提出的、允许其技术被部
署⽤于 " 所有合法⽤途 " 的要求。此后，双⽅多次就 Anthropic 的 Mythos 模型进⾏会谈。该模型因
潜在⽹络安全⻛险，⽬前仅向⼀⼩部分公司发布。
为应对算⼒需求压⼒， Anthropic 近⼏周签署了⼀系列新的数据中⼼协议，其中包括与⻢斯克旗
下 SpaceX 达成的合作。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 48 =====

在政府紧急斡旋下，三星电⼦在罢⼯前夜最后关头与⼯会达成初步协议。新协议还引⼊⻓
期特别绩效奖⾦⽅案，以年度利润⽬标为基准： 2026 年⾄ 2028 年间，年度⽬标利润为 200
万亿韩元（约合 1330 亿美元）； 2029 年⾄ 2035 年间，⽬标降⾄ 100 万亿韩元。
摘要：
三星电⼦在最后关头与⼯会达成初步协议，避免了⼀场可能严重冲击全球内存芯⽚供应链的⼤
规模罢⼯。对于正处于 AI 基础设施建设热潮中的科技⾏业⽽⾔，这⼀结果消除了近期最⼤的供应
端不确定性之⼀。
据三星电⼦于当地时间周三深夜发表的声明，劳资双⽅已就薪资及集体谈判协议达成初步共
识。⼯会⽅⾯随即确认，原定 5 ⽉ 21 ⽇⾄ 6 ⽉ 7 ⽇的罢⼯计划暂停执⾏。
新协议引⼊了⼀项针对半导体部⻔的⻓期特别绩效奖⾦⽅案，以年度利润⽬标为基准：2026 年
⾄ 2028 年间，年度⽬标利润为 200 万亿韩元（约合 1330 亿美元）； 2029 年⾄ 2035 年间，⽬标降
⾄ 100 万亿韩元。
此前韩国劳动部⻓ Kim Young-hoon 紧急召集双⽅进⾏夜间谈判，成为促成最终和解的关键⼀

环。
三星是全球最⼤内存芯⽚供应商，其产品⼴泛应⽤于智能⼿机、电动汽⻋及 AI 数据中⼼服务器。
近⼏个⽉来，内存芯⽚价格已因供应紧张⽽⼤幅攀升，⼀旦罢⼯成真，供应缺⼝可能进⼀步扩
⼤，加剧全球供应链压⼒。
最后关头逆转：政府斡旋促成协议
谈判进程曾⼀度濒临破裂。周三上午，⼯会领导⼈ Choi Seung-ho 宣布将按计划于次⽇启动罢
⼯，原因是三星管理层拒绝接受⼯会已认可的政府调解⽅案。
韩国政府随即出⼿⼲预，鉴于三星在韩国经济中的战略地位，政府对谈判结果⾼度关注。劳动
部⻓ Kim Young-hoon 召集双⽅进⾏最后⼀轮磋商，最终在深夜达成初步协议。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 49 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
291 收藏 分享到 :
⼯会将于 5 ⽉ 23 ⽇上午 9 时⾄ 5 ⽉ 28 ⽇上午 10 时，就拟议中的 2026 年薪资协议向成员开放投票。
协议核⼼：股权激励与薪资上涨并⾏
新协议在薪酬结构上作出重⼤调整。
协议引⼊了⼀项针对半导体部⻔的⻓期特别绩效奖⾦⽅案，以年度利润⽬标为基准： 2026 年⾄
2028 年间，年度⽬标利润为 200 万亿韩元（约合 1330 亿美元）； 2029 年⾄ 2035 年间，⽬标降⾄
100 万亿韩元。
根据⼯会声明，三星将保留现有利润分成奖⾦机制，并在此基础上为半导体部⻔新增⼀套以
10.5% 业绩绩效为基础的奖⾦⽅案。奖⾦池将在组织层级间分配，其中 40% 归属部⻔整体， 60%
分配⾄各业务单元。
值得注意的是，员⼯将以税后股票形式⽽⾮现⾦获得上述奖⾦。其中三分之⼀的股份可⽴即出

售，其余股份须持有最⻓两年。
薪资⽅⾯，三星还同意今年平均加薪 6.2% ，并改善员⼯育⼉补贴及住房贷款福利。
劳资⻆⼒背后： AI 红利分配之争
随着三星与 SK 海⼒⼠等企业从全球 AI 基础设施投资热潮中获益丰厚，⼯⼈群体对利润分配的诉
求⽇益强烈。
⼯会此前要求取消现⾏奖⾦上限，将三星 15% 的营业利润纳⼊员⼯奖⾦，并将相关条款写⼊劳
动合同，并援引竞争对⼿ SK 海⼒⼠去年同意将年度营业利润 10% 拨⼊绩效奖⾦池的先例作为参
照。
三星管理层则提出以 10% 营业利润分配奖⾦，另附⼀次性特别补偿⽅案，并表⽰⼯会的部分要
求难以⻓期持续。
美国驻韩国商会本⽉在⼀份声明中警告称，" 三星电⼦⼀旦出现重⼤⽣产中断或运营不确定性，
将对全球内存半导体市场造成额外压⼒，可能加剧供应瓶颈、价格波动、采购不确定性及更⼴
泛的供应链不稳定。 "
此次协议的达成，在⼀定程度上缓解了上述忧虑。
限免

===== Page 50 =====

写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 51 =====

美联储官员⼏乎放弃了过去两年⼀直主导他们辩论的问题 —— 是否降息 —— 并在上个⽉的
会议上开始更加认真地权衡相反的问题：是否加息。
摘要：
美联储官员⼏乎放弃了过去两年⼀直主导他们辩论的问题 —— 是否降息 —— 并在上个⽉的会议
上开始更加认真地权衡相反的问题：是否加息。
会议纪要证实，在最近⼀次货币政策会议上，美联储内部存在严重分歧且存在鹰派倾向： “ 多数 ”
决策者认为，若伊朗战事让通胀继续保持⾼位，可能确有必要加息，⽽且 “ 许多 ” 官员倾向于在那
次会议上就删除宽松倾向的决议措辞。
据美东时间 20 ⽇周三公布的会议纪要，在 4 ⽉末的美联储货币政策委员会 FOMC 会议上，讨论货
币政策的前景时，与会者普遍判断，鉴于通胀数据持续处于⾼位，加之围绕中东冲突持续时间
及其对经济影响的不确定性，维持当前政策⽴场、即继续按兵不动的时⻓可能要超出此前预
期。
纪要写道，⼀些（ Several ）与会者强调，⼀旦有明确迹象表明通胀回落进程已稳步重回正轨，
或者劳动⼒市场出现明显⾛弱的确凿迹象，可能适合降息。但紧接着这句话，纪要指出：

截⾄ 4 ⽉ 29 ⽇的 FOMC 会上，美联储如市场所料再次决定保持利率不变，但 12 名投票委员中有四
⼈反对决议声明，暴露了 1992 年以来最⼤的决策层分歧。对利率未来⾛向的巨⼤分歧。除了理
事⽶兰坚持降息 25 基点外，其他三名票委均因不⽀持声明保留宽松倾向⽽投了反对票。
本次会议纪要提到的 “ 许多 ” 联储官员⽀持移除宽松倾向措辞再次凸显了联储的内部分歧。华尔街
⻅闻曾提到，去年11 ⽉会议纪要公布后，媒体和有 “ 新美联储通讯社 ” 之称的记者 Nick Timiraos 指
出，在联储的措辞中，许多（ Many ）代表的⼈数低于⼤多数（ Most ），但超过⼀些
（ Several ）。
从这个⻆度看，正是由于持以上删除宽松倾向的 “ 许多 ” ⼈未达⼤多数，会议声明才保留了此前的
说法。此次会议声明实际上并没有明确袒露宽松倾向，并未直⾔降息，⽽是继续重申，若存在
实现联储通胀和就业⽬标的⻛险， “ 准备在适当的情况下调整货币政策⽴场 ” 。
针对此次会议纪要， Timiraos 发⽂称，在中东战事与⼈⼯智能（ AI ）热潮的双重影响下，即将迎

来领导层换届的美联储已经重塑了利率前景。联储官员们实际上已将过去两年间主导其内部辩
论的核⼼议题 —— 是否降息彻底搁置，在上⽉的会议上，他们开始更为认真地权衡截然相反的
可能性：是否加息。
“⼤多数（ A majority of ）与会者强调，如果通胀持续⾼于 2% ，采取某种程度的政策收紧措施可
能会变得适宜。
为应对这种可能性，许多（ many ）与会者表⽰，他们原本倾向于移除会后声明中那些暗⽰
（ FOMC ）委员会未来利率决策具有宽松倾向的措辞。与会者指出，货币政策并⾮处于预设轨
道，未来的政策决策将逐次会议制定。 ”
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 52 =====

评论认为，相⽐ 3 ⽉的会议纪要， 4 ⽉会议纪要的鹰派倾向增加。因为 3 ⽉纪要显⽰，⼀些
（ some ）与会者在会上表⽰，美联储很有理由给出平衡的政策指引，表明其下⼀步⾏动可能是
加息也可能是降息，⽽据 4 ⽉纪要，这⼀群体扩⼤到包括 “ 许多 ” （ many ）官员，他们更倾向于在
政策声明中使⽤更为中⽴的措辞。
“ 绝⼤多数 ” 与会者认为通胀达标所需时⻓超预期的⻛险增加
谈到通胀，纪要写道，⼏乎所有与会者都指出存在这样⼀种⻛险：中东冲突可能会⻓期持续；
或者即使冲突结束，⽯油及其他⼤宗商品的价格仍可能在超出预期的较⻓时期内维持⾼位。在
上述情景下，这些与会者预计，供应链中断、⾼企的能源价格，抑或是投⼊成本上升向其他价
格的传导效应，将继续对通胀构成上⾏压⼒。
紧接着纪要写道：
会上，与会者预计，近期⾼企的能源价格将继续对整体通胀构成上⾏压⼒。与会者普遍预期，
关税对核⼼商品通胀的影响将在今年年内逐渐减弱。不过，部分与会者指出，关税税率可能上
调⾄⾼于当前⽔平，从⽽对通胀产⽣额外的上⾏压⼒。

⼀些（ Several ）与会者预计，⽣产率增⻓的加速将对通胀产⽣下⾏压⼒；其中少数⼈还提到，
住房服务价格持续放缓的势头，很可能继续成为⼀种抑制通胀的压⼒来源。⼀些（ Several ）与
会者观察到，源于强劲⼈⼯智能（ AI ）投资⽀出的价格压⼒，很可能推⾼⼀系列⾏业的投⼊成
本。
“ 多数 ” 与会者认为就业⻛险偏下⾏
相⽐ 3 ⽉纪要，在 4 ⽉会议纪要中，美联储决策者对劳动⼒市场的评价更为乐观。
本周三公布的纪要写道：
此外，⼀些（ Several ）与会者援引了其商业联络⼈所反馈的证据，表明企业因整体经济的不确
定性，或出于对未来采⽤ AI 技术的预期，很可能会推迟或缩减招聘计划。另有⼀些与会者指出，
劳动⼒需求的下滑有可能导致失业率急剧攀升。
评论指出，在 3 ⽉的 FOMC 会议上，美联储官员们当时掌握的最新数据是表现糟糕的 2 ⽉就业报
告。 3 ⽉的会议纪要显⽰，当时许多官员曾担忧， “ 劳动⼒市场状况似乎极易受到不利冲击的影
响 ” 。
⽽本周三公布的 4 ⽉会议纪要显⽰，到了 4 ⽉ FOMC 会议召开时，联储官员们拿到了更为乐观的 3

⽉就业报告；⼤多数官员将这些数据视为劳动⼒市场已趋于稳定的证据。
在美联储 4 ⽉会议结束后，本⽉初公布的 4 ⽉⾮农就业报告显⽰ 4 ⽉就业增⻓远超预期，进⼀步印
证了劳动⼒市场可能正逐步站稳脚跟这⼀判断。
“ 绝⼤多数（ The vast majority of ）与会者指出，存在通胀回归（ FOMC ）委员会 2% 的⽬标⽔平
所需时间超出其此前预期的⻛险，且这⼀⻛险正在上升。 ”
“ 与会者普遍预计，近期劳动⼒市场状况将保持稳定。然⽽，多数（ Most ）与会者判断，
（ FOMC ）委员会 ‘ 双重使命 ’ 中涉及就业⽅⾯的⻛险倾向于下⾏。 ”

===== Page 53 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
608 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⻅闻⽤⼾39 分钟前中国江西省
0  回复
@ 川宝  把这些⼈全部抓起来吧

===== Page 54 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 55 =====

进⼊价值⽣产阶段。
摘要：
拿到实体⾏业⽼板们的信任，或许是AI改造世界的第⼀步。
2026年，AI上游卖硬件、卖token的“卖铲⼈”已经先⼀步赚得盆满钵满。但此时看回到⼯⼚⻋
间，从互联⽹公司转向制造业腹地，⼀个更要紧的问题浮出⽔⾯：AI究竟能不能真正渗透到中
国经济的⽑细⾎管——那些年营收⼏千万、团队不⾜百⼈、没有IT部门的中⼩制造企业。
怀疑者有充分的理由。中⼩企业数字化基础薄弱，数据散落在微信群和Excel表格⾥，⽼板们对
上系统天然警惕，员⼯对新⼯具本能抵触。
更关键的是，制造业的场景涉及供应链、⽣产排期、跨语⾔沟通、多平台运营，任何⼀个环节
的AI化都不是简单的对话框能解决的。
但在被称为“世界超市”的义乌，⼀家名为"优克拉"的星空灯⼯⼚，提供着⼀个新解法。
这家成⽴超过18年的企业，团队不⾜百⼈，却在2026年3⽉钉钉发布AI智能体"悟空"后的两周内
完成了全员部署。
三个⽉过去，它的新品⾸发成功率从60%跃升⾄92%，抖⾳团队⽇销售额从⼏千元涨到两万多，
⾏政⼀个⼈的算薪⼯作从两天压缩到了⼗分钟。

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 56 =====

这些数字背后不是什么宏⼤的数字化转型⼯程，没有庞⼤的IT团队⽀撑。它靠的是⼀个能直接操
作钉钉⼯作流的AI智能体、⼀群愿意花三四个⼩时去"试试看"的普通员⼯，以及⼀个计算机专业
出⾝但已经⼆⼗年没写过代码的⽼板。
这个故事之所以值得细看，不仅因为它展⽰了AI创造价值的路径，更因为它暴露了AI渗透实业
时遭遇的真实摩擦。
接管⼯⼚与门店
深挖AI在优克拉创造的价值之前，⾸先要理解这家企业的业务特征。
优克拉是典型的义乌"前店后⼚"模式，在义乌国际商贸城拥有线下店铺接待全球客商，同时⾃有
⼯⼚负责研发和⽣产，产品通过天猫、亚⻢逊、抖⾳、1688等多平台销售。CEO魏俊2005年毕
业于南昌⼤学计算机专业，2007年因家庭原因来到义乌创业，从淘宝店卖发光陶瓷杯起步。
"2012年，这款杯⼦⼀年卖出七⼋万个，营收超⼆⼗万。"他向华尔街⻅闻回忆道。⼗⼏年过
去，优克拉已经成为星空灯品类的隐形冠军，持有迪⼠尼、奥特曼、三丽鸥等知名IP授权和四⼗
余项专利。
计算机背景让魏俊对数字化有⼀种本能的亲近，他跟华尔街⻅闻表⽰，⾃从初代GPT发布他就

开始跟AI聊上了。⽽优克拉更是早在2017年⽤上了钉钉，2023年9⽉全⾯部署钉钉AI表格
——"在⼤部分义乌⽼板还在⽤微信加Excel做⽣意的年代"，他强调这个时间差。
两个⽉前，钉钉的AI⼯作平台 “悟空” 发布，原本优克拉的数据已经在线上跑着，AI只需要接⼊⽽
⽆需重建，很快接⼿了那些重复性的、机械的、但⼜占据⼤量⼈⼒的⼯作。
在义乌国际商贸城，优克拉的店铺"IP魔法城堡"每天接待来⾃中东、东南亚、⾮洲、南美的国际
客商。语⾔障碍和信息遗漏⼀直是困扰⼀线店铺的⽼问题。
魏俊向华尔街⻅闻说，他的解决⽅案是在柜台旁挂⼀张AI录⾳卡，⾃动完成语⾳转⽂字和多语
⾔翻译，⽆论客商说的是英语、阿拉伯语还是⻄班⽛语，对话内容都会实时同步到公司的AI表格
中。
回到总部，产品研发和供应链团队不需要反复追问"那个中东客户到底说了啥"，只需要问Agent
——"今天商贸城来了哪些客商，他们有什么定制需求？"AI即时检索、汇总、分析，给出结构化
的清单。

===== Page 57 =====

"从客商踏进店铺的那⼀刻起，他的需求就已经在数字化链路上流动了，从店铺到总部、从销售
到研发、从⼀句⼝头表达到⼀份可执⾏的产品需求单，中间不再需要⼈⼯转述。"魏俊描述道。
对于"前店后⼚"的⼯贸⼀体企业来说，这条从"店铺现场"到"⼯⼚⻋间"的数据⾼速公路，意义不
亚于当年接⼊互联⽹。
同样的逻辑复制到了电商运营端。
过去，优克拉的运营团队每天需要耗费整整两个⼩时，⼿动复制淘宝⽣意参谋⾥的数据，粘贴
到Excel表格，依靠⼈⼯经验去分析为什么竞品的款式会⽕。
"每天都有⽆数关于爆款的焦虑，隔壁⼚的某款产品突然⽇销过万，你还不知道为什么。"魏俊向
华尔街⻅闻说，“现在，每天凌晨，他搭建的Agent⾃动抓取全平台本类⽬的爆款数据；早晨分析
报告推送到钉钉群。
但信息搬运只是起点。当数据不再需要⼈⼯搬运之后，悟空开始介⼊更⾼层级的⼯作，那些原
本依赖⽼板直觉和运营经验的分析判断。
最让魏俊印象深刻的，是AI对认知盲区的纠偏。
"我们传统运营团队有惯性思维，⼀直做⾼客单价产品，完全忽视了低客单价市场，结果在竞争

中落后了。"他坦⾔。AI分析市场数据后指出：百元以内的产品覆盖年轻消费者有巨⼤潜⼒，颜
⾊偏好等细节对销售有显著影响。
"这些是⼈⼯分析根本注意不到的视觉盲点。说实话，我们是吃了亏才去调整⼯作⽅式的。"魏俊
坦⾔道。
在产品研发环节，优克拉让Agent分析五千条以上的⽤户评论，提炼出痛点如"光线刺眼"、痒点
如"需要蓝⽛控制"、兴奋点如"作为孩⼦睡前的仪式感"。"过去的做法是靠⽼板拍板或美⼯灵
感，偶尔翻看评论区，但这种⾮结构化的信息看过就忘。"
在真⾦⽩银的推⼴环节，变化更激进。
优克拉在悟空上建了⼀套⾃动化的投产热⼒图系统，⾼ROI链接建议加⼤投⼊，他们还设置了⼀
道AI质检员，主图点击率低于3%的链接，系统直接拦截上架。
"把原本充满⽞学的运营推⼴变成了傻⽠式操作，新⼈只需三天即可上⼿。"魏俊说。传统产品分
析还有⼀个盲区："没有考虑短视频传播和情绪价值，导致产品成功率低，库存积压严重。以前
盲⽬跟⻛，亏了不少。现在AI整合⾏业周期、节⽇增⻓速度、⽬标⼈群这些参数，结合⼩红书
爆款设计趋势，产品成功率确实提升了。"

从信息搬运到分析判断，再到执⾏决策，AI在优克拉的渗透沿着⼀条清晰的逻辑链逐层深⼊。
但真正让这条链条运转起来的，来⾃组织的重构。
销售主管转向Skill 开发
"我们公司以前最重要的是销售部，现在最重要的是Skill开发。"魏俊向华尔街⻅闻直⾔道。
但背后是⼀次真实的组织调整。他的原销售部门负责⼈已经转岗，专职负责AI技能的开发和维
护。运营助理转型到了内容部门，公司新增了技能训练和设计总监训练等新岗位。

===== Page 58 =====

作为⽤户⾃定义的AI封装技能，Skill⾃然语⾔结构化的稳定操作悟空"做⼀件特定的事，⽬前优
克拉拥有50到70个Skill，覆盖从爆款抓取、评论分析、投放质检到考勤算薪的各个环节。
魏俊坚持让业务出⾝的⼈来做这件事。"懂业务的⼈做相应⼯作，解决体系问题⽽⾮单点问
题。"他直接批评那些外部解决⽅案："单纯的情绪价值培训和不懂业务的外部顾问，⽆法促进企
业持续成⻓。"
这种选择背后的逻辑是：AI⼯具的上限不取决于技术本⾝，⽽取决于使⽤者对业务的理解深度。
⼀个懂得为什么这个链接ROI低的运营主管，搭建出的质检Skill远⽐⼀个会敲代码的⼯程师更有
效。
访谈中⼀个细节印证了这⼀点。
⼩董是公司唯⼀的⾏政⼈事，学的是酒店管理，之前⼀直在餐饮⾏业做⼈事兼收银。2023年随
爱⼈来到义乌，加⼊优克拉时，这家公司从来没有过专职HR，⼀切从零开始。
真正改变她⼯作的是算薪。优克拉七⼋⼗⼈的团队，考勤规则跟钉钉标准不完全⼀样，不同部
门规则不同，还有节假⽇调休等特殊情况。
每个⽉，她需要从后台导出打卡记录，逐⼈逐条⼿动誊抄、转换为公司⾃有的算薪格式，再计

算⼯资。⼀个⼈⼲，整整两天。
公司的技术同事了解了她的⼯作流之后，帮她搭了⼀个Skill，两天的⼯作缩短到不到⼗分钟。
"这个是每个⽉⼀次的⼯作，我会⽤它。"⼩董向华尔街⻅闻表⽰。她不会写代码，不懂什么叫提
⽰词⼯程，但技术同事告诉她悟空的逻辑是什么，她就⾃⼰去试、去调。Skill搭建过程中，⼤部
分调试⼯作是她⾃⼰动⼿完成的，前后花了三到四个⼩时。
对于⼀个每天泡在⼯作的⼈来说，这意味着AI正在从"聊天窗⼝"⾛进"⼯作现场"。
当被问到"AI嵌⼊⼯作后有什么不同"时，⼩董想了想说："好像并没有更轻松，但是很多事情我
可以把问题抛给AI，让他帮我分析，然后我根据他给的⽅法去尝试，可能少⾛很多弯路。"
魏俊对全员AI化的推进有⼀套⾃⼰的⽅法论。他的路径是"数据收集、线上化、可视化、奖励机
制"四步⾛。公司会议由AI⾃动打分——"70分、68分、72分，会议讲得怎么样、主持得怎么样，
AI全部告诉你。

===== Page 59 =====

店铺销售⼈员同样被AI评估。系统根据录⾳⾃动提取客户咨询记录并打分，维度包括专业度、⽬
标导向、客户洞察、提问与倾听能⼒。"标准是我们⾃⼰定的，输⼊给智能体，它⾃动评估。"魏
俊说。他甚⾄让Agent根据客户咨询记录⾃动⽣成培训考题，"让别⼈去训练"。
整个公司的数字化历程从2017年接⼊钉钉开始，2023年全⾯部署AI表格，对⽐的是"传统Excel
的⼯作模式"。魏俊对此有清醒的认知："科技是第⼀⽣产⼒。⾯对市场变化，我们的态度是先看
机会后看问题。"他计划继续在AI领域加⼤投⼊，⽬标是通过AI优化实现效率三倍提升。
他现在还经常在⼚房⾥办培训，带动⾝边的义乌⽼板学AI。"⼤部分⼈的执⾏⼒不⾜，所以跟不
上领先者的步伐。我希望借此拉开公司和竞争对⼿的差距。"
能⼒边界之外
将优克拉的实践简单包装为⼀个AI赋能的成功故事，会遮蔽其中真实的摩擦。
魏俊坦⾔，推动AI应⽤时遇到了明显的员⼯抵触情绪。他的应对是"选择合适的⼈先做起来，树
⽴标杆，让数据说话"。
他也坦诚地说："开周会的时候⼤家提需求，实话实说，可能⼤部分我觉得挺尴尬的。"很多员⼯

提出的AI需求并不成⽴，或者根本⽆法被当前技术满⾜。全员AI化的愿景与员⼯实际认知之间
存在显著的落差。
更深层的困难在于从单点到体系的跨越。
"现有AI⼯具多解决表⾯问题，难以全⾯优化公司经营体系。"魏俊观察到，单个Skill解决单个痛
点相对容易，但要让五六⼗个Skill形成协同、真正重塑企业的决策链条，需要系统化的顶层设
计，⽽这恰恰是中⼩企业最缺乏的能⼒。
AI能⼒本⾝也有清晰的边界。
Agent能处理的是规则明确、数据结构化的任务。⼩董的算薪Skill之所以成功，前提是考勤规则
能够被清晰描述。⽽那些"说不清楚"的业务逻辑——⽐如⼀款产品到底该不该做、⼀个市场到底
值不值得进，AI能提供分析，但最终的战略判断仍然需要⼈来承担。
"产品定位与⽬标⽤户不符导致的低转化率，AI能发现，但不能⾃动解决。"魏俊说。
还有⼀个更底层的⽣态问题。
优克拉是义乌的先⾏者，但先⾏者的前提是它2017年就搭好了数字化底座。在义乌，⼤部分中
⼩企业的数据仍然散落在微信群和纸质单据⾥。对他们来说，问题不是"AI好不好⽤"，⽽是"数

据从哪来"。
没有数字化底座的企业，即便拿到了Agent，也⽆从接⼊。魏俊清楚这⼀点："意识觉醒是第⼀
步。"但这⼀步对很多⼈来说仍然遥远。
尽管如此，优克拉的实践仍然回答了⼀个重要的问题：AI落地实业的门槛，究竟可以低到什么程
度？
它没有依赖昂贵的定制开发，没有组建IT团队。⼀个从餐饮业跨界来的⾏政⼈员能在四个⼩时内
搭建出可⽤的智能体；⼀个运营新⼈三天就能上⼿原本充满"⽞学"的推⼴投放；⼀个凌晨三点⾃
动运⾏的数据抓取任务，让不⾜百⼈的⼩⼚拥有了和互联⽹⼤⼚同频的市场嗅觉。

===== Page 60 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
143 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
当AI的使⽤门槛降低到⾃然语⾔交互的程度，当它能直接嵌⼊企业已有的协作平台⽽⾮要求另起
炉灶，中⼩制造企业与⼤公司之间的数字化鸿沟就有了被填平的可能。
⼩董对华尔街⻅闻说："⽣活的每⼀次转折，靠的不是什么宏⼤叙事，⽽是机会来了，就试试
看。"
2026 初，⻓江商学院对全国  2000 余家规模以上⼯业企业进⾏了  AI 调研。数据显⽰，其中有
10.0% 的企业产⽣了实质性的  AI 相关⽀出。在尚未拥抱  AI 的群体中，⾼达  79.2% 的企业明确
表⽰  AI“不适⽤于本企业”。
如此渗透率显⽰，AI 在规模以上实体企业中的渗透率仍处于相对早期的阶段。但也意味着潜在
的巨⼤的机会。
这场刚刚起步的产业智能化征程中，中国企业需要主动起来，来寻找属于⾃⼰的时代红利。眼

下钉钉和魏俊，似乎已经做出了样板间。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⻅闻⽤⼾2 ⼩时前中国上海
0  回复
别忽悠了

===== Page 61 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
OpenAI CEO Sam Altman 希望抢在竞争对⼿ Anthropic 之前完成上市，以争夺市场关注与
资⾦。知情⼈⼠表⽰， OpenAI 此时提交上市申请，部分意图在于向公开市场投资者发出信
号，希望他们预留资⾦，不要全部押注在 SpaceX 六⽉的 IPO 上。
摘要：
据媒体报道， OpenAI 正加速推进上市进程，⽬标于今年 9 ⽉完成 IPO ，⽬标估值超过 1 万亿美
元，这将成为⼈⼯智能⾏业迄今规模最⼤的公开募股。
OpenAI 最快将于本周五提交 IPO 草案招股书。公司过去数⽉⼀直在为估值超过 1 万亿美元的上市
做准备；已与⾼盛、摩根⼠丹利及律所 Cooley 合作。
Sam Altman 主张抢在竞争对⼿ Anthropic 之前完成上市，以争夺公开市场投资者的关注与资⾦。

同时知情⼈⼠表⽰， OpenAI 此时提交⽂件，部分意图在于向公开市场投资者发出明确信号，希
望他们预留资⾦，不要将全部 " ⽕⼒ " 押注在⻢斯克旗下 SpaceX 即将到来的 IPO 上。
上市时机之争：抢跑 Anthropic ，分流 SpaceX 资⾦
推动 OpenAI 加速上市的核⼼动因之⼀，是与 Anthropic 之间的竞争压⼒。 Anthropic 同样正准备
最快于今年上市， Sam Altman 希望 OpenAI 能够率先登陆公开市场。
与此同时， SpaceX 预计下⽉上市，⽬标以 1.75 万亿美元估值融资约 750 亿美元，有望成为史上
规模最⼤的 IPO 。
OpenAI ⽅⾯担忧，⼀旦投资者将⼤量资⾦配置于 SpaceX ，将压缩其⾃⾝募资空间。知情⼈⼠
称，两家公司之间存在 " ⼤量博弈 " ， OpenAI 希望尽早锁定市场资⾦。
不过，上市最终时间表仍存在变数。据悉， OpenAI ⾸席财务官 Sarah Friar 对上市节奏持更为审
慎的⽴场。

扫清障碍：赢得与⻢斯克之间的诉讼
过去 12 个⽉， OpenAI 集中清理了上市前的潜在障碍。公司去年完成向营利性实体的转型，近期
亦削减了多项耗资较⾼的 " 边缘业务 " ，以优化财务结构。
本周，OpenAI 还赢得了与⻢斯克之间的法律纠纷。⻢斯克此前以 " 盗取慈善机构 " 为由，起诉
OpenAI 及 Sam Altman 阻⽌其营利化转型，该诉讼现已告终。
在融资层⾯， OpenAI 已累计融资近 2000 亿美元，规模史⽆前例。公司寻求借助公开市场进⼀步
补充资⾦，以维持在⼈⼯智能领域与 Anthropic 等对⼿的竞争优势。
据《华尔街⽇报》报道， OpenAI 计划最快本周提交上市申请。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 62 =====

178 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⻅闻⽤⼾2 ⼩时前中国上海
0  回复
美股⼈傻钱多，骗⼦⼀个个层出不穷

===== Page 63 =====

特朗普称美伊谈判处于 “ 最终阶段 ” ，美油盘中跌近 7% 。部分油轮通过霍尔⽊兹海峡的消息
也是油价下跌推⼿。此前公布的美国上周 EIA 原油总库存暴跌 1780 万桶，⼤超市场预期，
叠加美国原油出⼝升⾄历史⾼位，⼀度引发供应担忧。 EIA 数据公布后，原油曾略为收窄跌
幅、⽇内跌不⾜ 3.5% 。
摘要：
美东时间 20 ⽇周三，国际原油期货市场被美国总统特朗普的⼀句话 “ 击穿 ” 。
周三美股早盘，美国能源部下属能源信息署（ EIA ）公布的数据显⽰，美国上周 EIA 原油总库存
创纪录暴跌 1780 万桶，远超市场预期，叠加美国原油出⼝升⾄历史⾼位，⼀度引发市场对全球
供应进⼀步紧缺的担忧。
EIA 数据公布后，数据公布前曾跌超 4% 的国际原油短线收窄部分跌幅。但随后的报道显⽰，特
朗普称美伊谈判已处于 “ 最终阶段 ” ，市场⻛险溢价迅速回吐，原油跌幅急剧扩⼤。
美股早盘刷新⽇低时，美国 WTI 原油 7 ⽉合约跌⾄ 97 美元，⽇内跌近 6.9% ；布伦特原油跌⾄
103.24 美元，⽇内跌逾 7.2% ，创近两周最⼤单⽇跌幅。

市场情绪的急转弯，凸显当前原油交易逻辑已完全被中东局势主导：任何有关霍尔⽊兹海峡恢
复、伊朗谈判推进的消息，都⾜以瞬间逆转此前由供应恐慌推⾼的涨势。
创纪录库存暴跌，本应是超级利多
从基本⾯看， EIA 数据实际上极度偏多。
数据显⽰，上周包括战略⽯油储备（ SPR ）在内的美国原油总库存暴跌 1780 万桶，其中仅 SPR
释放就占约 990 万桶；商业原油库存也较前⼀周环⽐减少 790 万桶，连降四周，降幅远超分析师
预期的约 290 万桶。与此同时，美国原油出⼝升⾄ 560 万桶 / ⽇的历史⾼位。
更令市场紧张的是，作为 WTI 交割地的俄克拉何⻢州库欣（ Cushing ）库存连续第四周下降，进
⼀步逼近所谓 “Tank bottoms （罐底） ” ⽔平。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 64 =====

华尔街普遍认为，这意味着美国正逐渐失去其作为全球原油市场 “ 最后缓冲垫 ” 的能⼒。
不少交易员此前押注，如果霍尔⽊兹海峡运输持续受限，同时美国库存继续快速下降，那么全
球原油市场可能很快进⼊ “ 极端短缺 ” 状态。
也正因此，在 EIA 数据公布瞬间，油价曾⼀度略为收窄跌幅，布油曾重上 107.40 美元，⽇内跌不
到 3.5% ，美油曾回到 100.90 美元上⽅、⽇内跌不⾜ 3.1% 。
但真正决定市场⽅向的，是特朗普讲话
然⽽，仅仅数分钟后，市场交易逻辑被彻底改写。
特朗普周三表⽰，美国与伊朗的谈判已进⼊ “ 最终阶段 ” ，并重申战争将 “ ⾮常迅速 ” 结束。与此同
时，媒体报道称，部分油轮已开始重新通过霍尔⽊兹海峡。
据报道，伊朗伊斯兰⾰命卫队海军周三称，过去 24 ⼩时内，包括油轮、集装箱船和其他商船在
内的 26 艘船只在与伊朗的协调下通过了霍尔⽊兹海峡。此外，据周三早间的新华社报道，英国
航运媒体周⼆在社交媒体援引追踪数据称， 5 ⽉ 11 ⽇⾄ 17 ⽇，⾄少有 54 艘船穿越霍尔⽊兹海峡，

前⼀周仅有 25 艘。
这些霍尔⽊兹海峡的航运消息迅速击中了此前⽀撑油价暴涨的核⼼逻辑 —— 霍尔⽊兹⻓期关
闭。
过去⼏周，市场最担忧的是，伊朗冲突可能导致霍尔⽊兹海峡⻓期受阻。该海峡承担全球约五
分之⼀原油运输，⼀旦持续关闭，全球能源市场将⾯临⼏⼗年来最严重的供应冲击。
⽽如今，随着市场开始重新定价 “ 冲突缓和 ” 乃⾄ “ 海峡恢复通航 ” 的可能性，此前被推⾼的地缘政
治⻛险溢价迅速回吐。
Price Futures Group 的分析师 Phil Flynn 称，市场正在交易 “ 和平谈判降低美国进⼀步军事⾏动概
率 ” 的预期。
华尔街：这更像 “ 挤泡沫 ” ，不是趋势反转
尽管本周三盘中油价暴跌，华尔街多数机构仍未彻底转向看空。

===== Page 65 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
606 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
不少机构认为，本轮下跌更像是此前 “ 战争溢价 ” 的快速挤出，⽽⾮供应危机真正结束。
媒体援引分析⼈⼠称，当前全球原油供应依然⾼度紧张，霍尔⽊兹海峡运输恢复程度仍⼗分有
限，⽬前通⾏油轮数量远低于冲突前⽔平。
Wood Mackenzie 甚⾄警告，如果霍尔⽊兹海峡再次⼤范围关闭，油价可能冲向 200 美元。
花旗则认为，在全球库存持续下降、美国出⼝⾼企、夏季需求旺季临近的背景下，布伦特原油
仍可能重新测试 120 美元。
媒体也指出，虽然外交消息缓和了市场情绪，但原油库存快速下降、中东局势反复以及全球备
⽤产能不⾜，意味着油市脆弱性并未解除。
后市关键：霍尔⽊兹能否真正恢复
当前市场实际上正在两种截然相反的情景之间剧烈摇摆：
⼀⽅⾯，如果美伊谈判取得实质性进展、霍尔⽊兹运输逐渐恢复，那么此前由 “ 断供恐慌 ” 推动的

油价暴涨可能继续回撤；
但另⼀⽅⾯，只要中东局势再度恶化、油轮运输再次中断，在全球库存持续下降背景下，油价
仍极易重新进⼊逼空模式。
换句话说，如今的原油市场，已不再只是供需市场，⽽是⼀个⾼度政治化、情绪化的 “ 地缘⻛险
市场 ” 。
⽽周三这场暴跌，也再次说明：当前决定油价⽅向的，可能不再是库存数据本⾝，⽽是⽩宫与
德⿊兰之间的每⼀句话。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 66 =====

1 条评论
得得得摸摸摸1 ⼩时前中国湖南省
1  回复
天天画线

===== Page 67 =====

Amos Hochstein 指出，霍尔⽊兹海峡关闭导致每⽇超 1200 万桶⽯油供应中断，叠加炼油
产能从汽油转向航空燃油，形成双重危机。与此同时，战略⽯油储备与⻚岩油增产两⼤⼯
具均已失效。 5 ⽉油价上涨将在 7 ⾄ 8 ⽉推⾼通胀，制约美联储降息空间，迫使政策利率维持
⾼位。
摘要：
美国正⾯临⼀场⽐ 2022 年能源危机更复杂、政策⼯具更有限的油价冲击。
据英国⾦融时报，前⽩宫⾼级能源顾问 Amos Hochstein 警告，油价上⾏压⼒远未结束，并将从
通胀和财政两条路径推升⻓期美债收益率。⼀⽅⾯，霍尔⽊兹海峡通⾏受阻导致的实物供应中
断规模远超历史先例，短期内⽆法恢复；另⼀⽅⾯，结构性 “ 炼油困境 ” 导致即便原油恢复供应，
炼⼚也⽆法快速转化为汽油。
与此同时，2022 年应对油价危机的两⼤⼯具现已失效：战略⽯油储备（ SPR ）已降⾄约 3.74 亿
桶，进⼀步释放空间有限；⻚岩油产能已达上限，⽆短期内可快速释放的增产能⼒。
Hochstein 预计，5 ⽉油价上涨将在约两个⽉后传导⾄核⼼ CPI ，这意味着 7 ⽉⾄ 8 ⽉的通胀数据将

明显升温，从⽽限制美联储降息空间，使政策利率维持⾼位。
双重危机叠加，供应缺⼝史⽆前例
此次油价冲击由两条相互强化的危机链条构成。
第⼀，实物供应中断。  霍尔⽊兹海峡关闭导致全球每⽇超 1200 万桶⽯油供应被切断，国际能源
署（ IEA ）将此定性为有史以来最严峻的全球能源安全挑战。
第⼆，炼油结构性困局。  航空燃油裂解价差创下每桶 80 美元的历史纪录，远超 2022 年峰值，⼤
量炼油产能因此从汽油转向航空燃油。结果便是：炼⼚满负荷运转，汽油产量反较⼀年前减少
约 34 万桶 / ⽇。
美国能源信息署（ EIA ）数据显⽰，近⼏周美国汽油库存每周消耗约 400 万桶，与五年均值的缺
⼝已扩⼤⾄近 1100 万桶。 EIA ⾃ 1990 年有记录以来的历史最低库存⽔平，最早可能在 6 ⽉中下旬
被触及。
应对⼯具箱近乎耗尽，政策空间⼤幅收窄
2022 年曾有效压制油价的政策⼯具，此次已基本失效或提前消耗。
战略⽯油储备⽅⾯，美国作为 IEA 协调响应的⼀部分，已承诺释放 1.72 亿桶，⽬前已释放约 8000

万桶，储备余量降⾄约 3.74 亿桶。更关键的是，由于炼⼚产能向航空燃油倾斜，额外释放原油已
⽆法像 2022 年那样⾼效转化为汽油 ——储备规模缩⽔的同时，政策效⼒也已⼤打折扣。
⽣产端⽅⾯，增产空间同样有限。美国原油及⽯油产品出⼝在 4 ⽉下旬创下每⽇ 1290 万桶的历史
纪录，⽯油产品⽇出⼝量在 5 ⽉更达到 820 万桶的新⾼。 Hochstein 指出，这⼀杠杆已被拉满，不
存在进⼀步增量空间。
通胀传导滞后，债市已率先反应
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 68 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
123 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
能源价格冲击对宏观经济的影响正在逐步显现，且最坏的时刻尚未到来。
Hochstein 指出，上周公布的通胀数据已显⽰消费者能源价格的涨幅与持续时间超出美联储预
期，但这尚未反映后续⾛势。能源价格向核⼼ CPI 的传导存在数周滞后， 5 ⽉的油价压⼒将在 7 ⽉
和 8 ⽉的通胀数据中集中体现，届时将对美联储货币政策路径形成新的制约。
债券市场已率先作出反应。 30 年期美债收益率升⾄⾦融危机以来最⾼⽔平， 10 年期美债收益率
同步⾛⾼。抵押贷款成本、企业融资利率及联邦债务利息⽀出将随之上升，对实体经济形成更
⼴泛的传导压⼒。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 69 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
彭博策略师指出，以三个⽉滚动⼝径计算，外资净买⼊美股规模已接近零，为去年 “ 关税恐
慌 ” 以来最低。同时，美债市场的外资需求同样疲软。尽管 3 ⽉美国整体资本流⼊约 1500 亿
美元，但主要源于美国投资者出售海外债券，⽽⾮外资主动增配。总量数字掩盖了股债双
线资本流⼊稳健性弱化的趋势。
摘要：
外国投资者对美国资产的热情正在悄然退潮。
彭博宏观策略师 Simon White 指出，表⾯上美国仍保持强劲的资本流⼊，但真正⽀撑美股和美债
的海外资⾦正在明显减弱，这可能成为未来市场最值得警惕的⻛险之⼀。
美国财政部最新公布的数据显⽰， 3 ⽉美国净资本流⼊约 1500 亿美元，⾼于近三个⽉和六个⽉约
1000 亿美元的平均⽔平。但这⼀数据的改善，主要源于美国投资者出售海外债券所带来的资⾦
回流，⽽⾮海外投资者主动增持美国资产。

更值得关注的是，资⾦流⼊的核⼼⽀柱正在松动。以三个⽉滚动⼝径计算，外资净买⼊美国股
票的规模已接近零，降⾄去年 “ 关税恐慌 ” 以来最低⽔平。
这意味着，美国资产表⾯的韧性之下，海外资⾦的⽀持⼒度正在减弱。⼀旦外资继续减少对美
股和美债的配置，美国股市的⾼估值与债券市场的融资能⼒都将⾯临更⼤压⼒。
表⾯繁荣下的隐患：外资流⼊美国的稳健性正在弱化
外资对美国股债的配置需求正同步⾛弱，依赖海外资⾦的模式⾯临转折⻛险。
美国财政部 TIC 数据显⽰， 3 ⽉外国投资者买⼊美股与美国投资者卖出海外股票的规模基本持
平，致使股票项下净资本流⼊趋近于零。这意味着，过去数年持续涌⼊美国股市的海外资⾦正
在显著放缓—— 此前数万亿美元通过美股渠道流⼊美国，⼀定程度上是因为美债避险属性弱
化，使美股成为外资配置美元资产的主通道。
与此同时，美债市场的外资需求同样疲软。三个⽉滚动净买⼊规模仅约 500 亿美元，且买家⾼度
集中于欧洲投资者。但随着美国对欧洲政策⽴场趋于强硬，欧洲持续增持美债的意愿存在不确
定性。

⽬前外资仍持有约 30% 的美国国债存量。在通胀压⼒已推⾼收益率的背景下，⼀旦外资需求进
⼀步减弱，可能放⼤收益率上⾏压⼒，并推升美国政府的融资成本。
Simon White 总结称，总量数字掩盖了资本流⼊稳健性弱化的趋势。对于依赖外资⽀撑的美国市
场⽽⾔，这⼀结构性拐点值得密切关注。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 70 =====

121 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⻅闻⽤⼾8 ⼩时前中国北京
0  回复
怎么衡量热情

===== Page 71 =====

俄罗斯总统普京访华期间，两国元⾸签署并发表《中华⼈⺠共和国和俄罗斯联邦关于进⼀
步加强全⾯战略协作、深化睦邻友好合作的联合声明》，双⽅共同发表《中华⼈⺠共和国和
俄罗斯联邦关于倡导世界多极化和新型国际关系的联合声明》。
摘要：
俄罗斯总统普京访华期间两国元⾸会晤成果⽂件清单
⼀、请两国元⾸签署并发表的⽂件
《中华⼈⺠共和国和俄罗斯联邦关于进⼀步加强全⾯战略协作、深化睦邻友好合作的联合声明》
⼆、双⽅共同发表的⽂件
《中华⼈⺠共和国和俄罗斯联邦关于倡导世界多极化和新型国际关系的联合声明》
三、请两国元⾸⻅证签署的合作⽂件
（⼀）《中华⼈⺠共和国政府与俄罗斯联邦政府关于在城市发展领域合作的谅解备忘录》
（⼆）《中华⼈⺠共和国政府和俄罗斯联邦政府关于共同建设满洲⾥－后⻉加尔跨境铁路 1435 毫
⽶轨距⼆线的协定》
（三）《中华⼈⺠共和国科学技术部与俄罗斯国家原⼦能集团公司关于可控核聚变领域科技合作
的谅解备忘录》
（四）《中华⼈⺠共和国商务部与俄罗斯联邦经济发展部关于⽀持开放贸易和多边主义的联合声

明》
（五）《中华⼈⺠共和国商务部和俄罗斯联邦⼯业和贸易部关于发展重要⼯业品可持续贸易的谅
解备忘录》
（六）《中华⼈⺠共和国海关总署与俄罗斯联邦海关署关于海关⼲部教育培训合作的谅解备忘
录》
（七）《中华⼈⺠共和国海关总署与俄罗斯联邦兽医和植物检疫监督局关于俄罗斯配合饲料输华
检疫和卫⽣要求议定书》
（⼋）《中华⼈⺠共和国国家市场监督管理总局与俄罗斯联邦反垄断局谅解备忘录（ 2026 －
2027 ）》
（九）《中国国家知识产权局与俄罗斯联邦知识产权局合作谅解备忘录》
（⼗）《中国科学院和俄罗斯国家原⼦能集团公司科学技术合作谅解备忘录》
（⼗⼀）《中国国家原⼦能机构和俄罗斯国家原⼦能集团公司关于和平利⽤核能领域⼈才队伍建
设合作的谅解备忘录》
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 72 =====

（⼗⼆）《中华⼈⺠共和国国家电影局与俄罗斯联邦⽂化部关于合作拍摄电影的谅解备忘录》
（⼗三）《中共中央党校（国家⾏政学院）与俄罗斯总统国⺠经济和国家⾏政学院联合活动计划
（ 2026 － 2027 ）》
（⼗四）《中华⼈⺠共和国⼈⺠⽇报社与俄罗斯联邦塔斯社合作协议》
（⼗五）《中华⼈⺠共和国中国⽇报社与俄罗斯联邦俄罗斯国家媒体集团新闻交流与合作协议》
（⼗六）《中华⼈⺠共和国新华通讯社与俄罗斯联邦塔斯社关于举办建⽴合作关系 70 周年系列活
动的备忘录》
（⼗七）《中国中央⼴播电视总台与俄罗斯全俄国家电视⼴播公司关于深化纪录⽚和专题报道合
作的协议》
（⼗⼋）《清华⼤学与圣彼得堡国⽴⼤学关于共建 “ 中俄创新研究院 ” 的合作备忘录》
（⼗九）《北京⼤学－莫斯科物理技术学院关于⼈才联合培养与科研合作的战略伙伴关系协议》
（⼆⼗）《哈尔滨⼯业⼤学与圣彼得堡国⽴⼤学关于共建中国－俄罗斯卓越⼯程师学院项⽬的协
议》
四、双⽅同意现场宣布的⽂件
（⼀）《中华⼈⺠共和国科学技术部与俄罗斯联邦经济发展部关于创新领域合作的谅解备忘录》

（⼆）《中华⼈⺠共和国国家能源局与俄罗斯联邦能源部关于绿证领域合作的谅解备忘录》
（三）《中华⼈⺠共和国新华通讯社与俄罗斯联邦今⽇俄罗斯国际通讯社关于举办 2026 上海合作
组织专家论坛的备忘录》
（四）《中华⼈⺠共和国新华通讯社与俄罗斯联邦俄罗斯国家媒体集团新闻交换与合作协议》
（五）《中华⼈⺠共和国新华通讯社与俄罗斯天然⽓传媒控股股份公司关于培养专业和职业教育
领域⼈才的合作备忘录》
（六）《中国中央⼴播电视总台与俄罗斯联邦体育部合作备忘录》
（七）《中国中央⼴播电视总台与俄罗斯国家媒体集团深化合作协议》
（⼋）《中国中央⼴播电视总台与俄罗斯联邦政府财政⾦融⼤学合作备忘录》
（九）《中国中央⼴播电视总台与俄罗斯移动通信传媒在 “ 中俄教育年 ” 框架内联合制作节⽬的协
议》
（⼗）《中国中央⼴播电视总台与俄罗斯会展基⾦会合作协议》
（⼗⼀）《中俄基础科学研究院联合发展路线图（ 2026 － 2030 ）》
（⼗⼆）《哈尔滨⼯业⼤学与圣彼得堡国⽴⼤学商学战略合作谅解备忘录》

===== Page 73 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
413 收藏 分享到 :
（⼗三）《中华⼈⺠共和国⼭东省⼈⺠政府和⼭东⼤学与俄罗斯联邦鞑靼斯坦共和国政府和喀⼭
联邦⼤学谅解备忘录》
（⼗四）《北京外国语⼤学与俄罗斯⼈⺠友谊⼤学关于在俄语领域开展合作的协议》
（⼗五）《北京外国语⼤学与俄罗斯联邦⻘年事务署关于教育与⻘年政策领域合作谅解备忘录》
（⼗六）《南开⼤学与莫斯科国⽴⼤学合作协议》
（⼗七）《四川⼤学与俄罗斯⼈⺠友谊⼤学科学和教育合作协议》
（⼗⼋）《四川⼤学和莫斯科国⽴⼤学合作协议》
（⼗九）《华东师范⼤学与俄罗斯 “ 新项⽬推⼴战略倡议署 ” 开展合作的谅解备忘录》
（⼆⼗）《复旦⼤学与俄罗斯国家研究型⾼等经济⼤学双学位硕⼠项⽬协议》
本⽂来源：⼈⺠⽇报
限免

===== Page 74 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 75 =====

双⽅都表⽰对中国市场的态度不变
摘要：
⼀家基⾦公司把旗下运营良好的公募产品，连同管理团队⼀起转给其他基⾦公司。
这个在基⾦法⾥才有的事项，也在现实层⾯落地了。
2026 年 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，路博迈基⾦与施罗德基⾦双双发布公告，宣布施罗德基⾦旗下的三只基⾦以及
相关变更基⾦的部分核⼼投资⼈员将由路博迈基⾦承接。
随后的媒体报道称，此事相关的外资机构均表态  ，他们的中国战略没有发⽣变化。
施罗德旗下多数产品转给路博迈
根据施罗德基⾦发布的公告，结合公司实际情况，为更好地满⾜投资者需求，保护基⾦份额持
有⼈的利益，施罗德基⾦经与相关基⾦托管⼈协商⼀致，拟将该公司旗下 “ 施罗德恒享债券型证
券投资基⾦ ” 、 “ 施罗德中国动⼒股票型证券投资基⾦ ” 、 “ 施罗德添源纯债债券型证券投资基⾦ ”
的基⾦管理⼈变更为路博迈基⾦。
Wind 数据显⽰，施罗德基⾦旗下⽬前有 4 只基⾦产品（不同份额合计），除了 1 季度末合计规模不
到 0.7 亿元的施罗德添益，其余 3 只基⾦全数要 “ 转让 ” 给路博迈基⾦。

路博迈同步承接部分核⼼投资⼈员
此外，根据施罗德基⾦公告，基⾦管理⼈变更的议案如经基⾦份额持有⼈⼤会审议通过，路博
迈基⾦管理（中国）有限公司拟同步承接相关变更基⾦的部分核⼼投资⼈员。
施罗德基⾦称，公司已经向中国证监会提交了上述三只基⾦变更注册的申请，并将在基⾦变更
注册获得批准后公布上述三只基⾦召集基⾦份额持有⼈⼤会的公告。本次变更将以基⾦完成变
更注册、基⾦份额持有⼈⼤会审议通过为前提，后续该公司将按照法律法规、基⾦合同等进⾏
公告。
路博迈深化中国业务布局
作为此次的 “ 接盘⽅ ” ，路博迈基⾦也在同⽇亮明了态度。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 76 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
92 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
路博迈基⾦表⽰，此次相关基⾦管理业务的承接，基于路博迈集团对中国资本市场⻓期发展前
景的持续看好，是路博迈集团深化中国业务布局的战略举措。
该公司还表⽰，将与相关⽅密切配合，平稳完成后续⼯作，全⼒保障基⾦投资运作的连续性与
稳定性，切实维护基⾦份额持有⼈的合法权益。
施罗德⺟公司此前刚发⽣并购
施罗德基⾦是业内⽼牌的主动投资管理机构，该公司⻓期深耕中国市场，⽬前在国内有多家合
资、独资⾦融机构。此次发⽣产品 “ 转 “ 管理⼈事项的是他们的独资⼦公司施罗德基⾦公司。
此前的信息显⽰， 2026 年 2 ⽉，美国资产管理公司 Nuveen 宣布，已同意以 99 亿英镑（约合 135
亿美元）的价格收购英国施罗德投资集团，此次合并后，双⽅管理的资产总额将接近 2.5 万亿美

元。
⽽在施罗德投资集团的⼤股东发⽣变化后，施罗德在全球多个区域业务上进⾏了⼀定程度的战
略调整。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 77 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 78 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 79 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
163 收藏 分享到 :
习近平指出，今天我同普京总统⼜就推进中俄全⾯战略协作伙伴关系达成新的重要共识。
相信在双⽅不懈努⼒下，中俄关系⼀定会延续⾼质量发展态势，竿头⽇进，更上层楼。普
京表⽰，此访务实⾼效、成果丰硕。两国元⾸还就乌克兰危机等问题交换了意⻅。
摘要：
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇晚，国家主席习近平在北京⼈⺠⼤会堂同俄罗斯总统普京举⾏茶叙。
习近平指出，多年来，我同普京总统保持频密交往，共同引领中俄新时代全⾯战略协作伙伴关
系持续⾛深⾛实，推动两国睦邻友好更加深⼊⼈⼼，开创了相互尊重、公平正义、合作共赢的
新型⼤国关系范式，为变乱交织的世界持续注⼊宝贵的稳定性。今天我同普京总统⼜就推进中
俄全⾯战略协作伙伴关系达成新的重要共识。为者常成，⾏者常⾄。相信在双⽅不懈努⼒下，
中俄关系⼀定会延续⾼质量发展态势，竿头⽇进，更上层楼。

普京表⽰，此访务实⾼效、成果丰硕。我同习近平主席共同回顾了俄中关系的发展历程，就⼴
泛议题深⼊交换意⻅，明确了下⼀步两国合作⽅向，有利于确保俄中关系始终保持蓬勃发展势
头。俄⽅期待继续同中⽅保持密切沟通，加强战略协调，以俄中关系的确定性、稳定性为世界
和平繁荣作出新贡献。
两国元⾸还就乌克兰危机等问题交换了意⻅。
蔡奇、王毅参加。
本⽂来源：央视新闻
限免
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 80 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
三星电⼦⼯会于 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇宣布推迟原定 21 ⽇启动的罢⼯，并将于本周六就初步薪资协议进
⾏投票。双⽅在奖⾦制度上的分歧尚未解决，罢⼯⻛险依然存在。
摘要：
三星电⼦⼯会罢⼯在最后关头出现转机。
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，据韩联社报道，⼯会已决定推迟原定于次⽇启动的罢⼯，并将就初步薪酬⽅案进⾏投
票。⼯会表⽰，原定于 5 ⽉ 21 ⽇⾄ 6 ⽉ 7 ⽇举⾏的总罢⼯将延期，恢复时间另⾏通知。⼯会成员将
于本周六开始对初步薪资协议进⾏投票。
同⽇早些时候，据韩联社报道，三星电⼦⼯会宣布，由于三星公司管理层拒绝接受调解⽅案，
劳资谈判已破裂，⼯会将于明⽇（ 5 ⽉ 21 ⽇）按计划举⾏总罢⼯。此次罢⼯计划持续 18 天，涉及
近 4.8 万名⼯⼈。⼯会⽅⾯表⽰， “ 罢⼯期间仍不会放弃谈判，将持续努⼒争取达成协议。 ”

⼯会随后披露了谈判破裂的具体经过。 5 ⽉ 19 ⽇晚，⼯会已同意韩国中央劳动委员会提出的调解
⽅案，但三星管理层明确拒绝。随后三星⾸席谈判代表吕明求临时撤回拒绝意⻅，请求延⻓谈
判，调解因此延续⾄第三天。然⽽延⻓时间并未带来转机。⼯会称，公司 “ 只是反复重申 ‘ 尚未完
成内部决策 ’ ，始终未能明确表态 ” 。最终，中央劳动委员会终⽌了调解程序。
奖⾦制度分歧未解，罢⼯⻛险仍存
此次劳资纠纷的核⼼焦点在于奖⾦制度。⼯会提出的三项主要诉求包括：第⼀，废除当前年薪
50% 的奖⾦上限；第⼆，将年度营业利润的 15% 划⼊奖⾦池；第三，要求管理层将奖⾦⽅案的
变更内容正式写⼊协议，⽽⾮仅承诺执⾏⼀年。
相⽐之下，三星管理层的⽅案是：今年向存储芯⽚部⻔员⼯发放⼀笔⼀次性奖⾦，⾦额将超过
竞争对⼿ SK 海⼒⼠，但维持现有奖⾦上限不变。此外，双⽅在存储芯⽚业务与逻辑芯⽚业务之
间的奖⾦差距问题上，也尚未达成⼀致。
韩国政府已明确表态，不希望罢⼯发⽣。据路透社报道，政府上周末警告称，若谈判破裂，将

启动极为罕⻅的紧急仲裁令，强制暂停罢⼯ 30 天，并由政府介⼊调停。这⼀强硬姿态，折射出
此次罢⼯潜在的严重影响。三星电⼦约占韩国出⼝总额的四分之⼀，作为全球最⼤的存储芯⽚
制造商，⼀旦⽣产中断，在 AI 需求持续旺盛、芯⽚供应本已紧张的背景下，全球半导体供应链将
⾯临直接冲击。
尽管罢⼯暂时推迟，但相关⻛险并未解除。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 81 =====

290 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
3 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
MobileUser36999 ⼩时前中国⼴东省
0  回复
666
MobileUser800610 ⼩时前中国江西省
0  回复
这也可以 taco 反转了
⻅闻⽤⼾10 ⼩时前中国河南省
0  回复
作为周期⾏业，低⾕时有难同担否？

===== Page 82 =====

付费企业客⼾仍是 BOSS 直聘主要的收⼊来源
摘要：
作者  | ⻩昱
春招回暖重新拉动了在线招聘平台的增⻓。
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇， BOSS 直聘发布 2026 年第⼀季度财报。财报显⽰， 2026 年第⼀季度，公司实现营收
20.69 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 7.6% ；净利润 11.26 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 119.8% ；经调整净利润 8.56 亿元，同
⽐增⻓ 12.1% 。
BOSS 直聘这份财报释放了⼀个信号，是招聘需求正在出现阶段性修复。
BOSS 直聘创始⼈、董事⻓兼 CEO 赵鹏表⽰，受春招旺季招聘需求改善，以及平台渗透率提升
带来的⽤⼾增⻓推动，春节后业务出现加速增⻓。 2026 年 3 ⽉， BOSS 直聘平台⽉活跃⽤⼾规模
突破 7200 万。
此外，财报数据显⽰，截⾄ 2026 年 3 ⽉ 31 ⽇的过去 12 个⽉， BOSS 直聘付费企业客⼾达到 710
万，同⽐增⻓ 10.9% 。
虽然仍保持增⻓，但 BOSS 直聘付费企业客⼾的增速已经较前⼏季度放缓，尤其是 2024 年⼀季

度这⼀数字超过 40% 。
此外，付费企业客⼾仍是 BOSS 直聘主要的收⼊来源。⼀季度， BOSS 直聘的对企业客⼾的线上
招聘服务收⼊为 20.58 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 8.2% 。
BOSS 直聘⼀季度来⾃其他服务的收⼊同⽐⼤幅减少约 50% ⾄ 1100 万元。⽤ BOSS 直聘的说法，
这主要是因为其 2025 年三季度以来对部分⾯向求职者的增值服务的优化，也就是说， BOSS 直
聘来⾃求职者的收⼊减少了。
当下企业整体招聘需求仍偏谨慎，这也决定了招聘平台如今的增⻓逻辑，已经从 “ 流量扩张 ” 转向
“效率经营 ” 。
BOSS 直聘副⾸席财务官王⽂蓓指出，得益于⾼效的经营杠杆，公司利润率创下同季度历史新
⾼。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 83 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
85 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
然⽽，⽆论是企业招聘预算恢复速度，还是互联⽹流量红利⻅顶，抑或 AI 招聘产品商业化能否真
正形成第⼆增⻓曲线，仍是摆在 BOSS 直聘⾯前的核⼼问题。
过去⼀年， AI ⼏乎成为所有互联⽹平台的新叙事，但招聘⾏业被认为是最容易被 AI 重构的场景之
⼀。原因在于，招聘天然涉及简历匹配、岗位推荐、沟通筛选、⾯试评估等标准化流程，本⾝
就适合 AI 介⼊。
BOSS 直聘也正在把 AI 视为下⼀阶段增⻓重点。赵鹏在财报中提到，公司正在坚定投⼊ “ 以 AI 为
代表的技术驱动型增⻓战略 ” 。
过去，招聘⽹站的核⼼商业模式是售卖职位曝光和流量。但随着企业越来越关注招聘 ROI ，仅提
供流量已经不够，平台需要真正提升⼊职效率、降低招聘成本。  
BOSS 直聘也明确要推动 “ 基于招聘效果 ” 的商业模式。
这意味着，未来平台收费逻辑，可能逐渐从 “ 按曝光收费 ” ，转向 “ 按结果收费 ” 。
如果这⼀模式能够跑通， BOSS 直聘的商业天花板会被重新打开；但如果 AI 最终只是提⾼⾏业整
体效率，⽽⽆法形成新的收费能⼒，那么 AI 投⼊也可能演变成新⼀轮成本竞争。

请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 84 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
333 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
美国正在失去继续等待的时间。
摘要：
5 ⽉ 18 ⽇傍晚，特朗普随⼝说了⼀句话，瞬间把布伦特原油价格打了下来；他说，原定 5 ⽉
19 ⽇周⼆对伊朗的 " ⼤规模军事打击 " ，暂时不打了 —— 因为海湾国家请求再给⼏天时间谈
判。
市场松了⼀⼝⽓。但市场没有读完他那条 Truth Social 帖⼦的下半段。原话是 :" 我们明天不
会执⾏原计划的对伊朗的攻击，我已经进⼀步指⽰美军做好准备，在没有达成可接受协议
的情况下，随时、以⼀场全⾯的⼤规模攻势对伊朗开战。 "
这不是 " 我不打了 " ，⽽是 " 我的⼿已经准备好扣下扳机，只是延后⼏天 " 。
这场战争从 2026 年 2 ⽉ 28 ⽇开打，美军和以⾊列联⼿击杀了哈梅内伊，霍尔⽊兹海峡⾄今

实质性关闭 —— 这是⼀个已经持续了快三个⽉的事实。
市场仍然倾向于把每⼀次 " 暂停 " 理解成 " 接近停战 " ，⽽现在的⻛险已经不仅仅限于油价（详
⻅此前：全球油市平静的 “ 假象 ” ：下⼀轮暴涨已经进⼊倒计时？），那些在过去⼏年⾥，美
国苦⼼从中国搬出去的⼯⼚ —— 也正在⼀个接⼀个熄⽕ ……
⽴即解锁全⽂
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⻅闻⽤⼾23 ⼩时前中国
浓浓的 Ai 味⼉
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 85 =====

0  回复

===== Page 86 =====

⼀季度，机构在 AI 存储与半导体设备链条（如闪迪、希捷等）上⼤幅超配，拥挤度持续刷
新历史⾼位；⽽英伟达、微软、苹果等核⼼科技⻰头则被系统性低配。资⾦⾼度集中于 “ 卖
铲⼈ ” 逻辑的上游硬件，⽽对软件与⻰头持仓显著不⾜。
摘要：
拥挤交易是市场共识的极致体现，也是⻛险积聚的预警信号。
据追⻛交易台，摩根⼠丹利最新发布的 2026 年第⼀季度美股科技⼤盘股机构持仓报告，基于
13F 监管⽂件完整还原了华尔街主动机构的真实仓位分布，揭⽰出⼀幅⾼度分化的持仓图景：当
前科技板块并⾮全⾯抱团，⽽是呈现极端结构性失衡。
报告数据显⽰，以闪迪为代表的 AI 存储与半导体设备链条，已成为全市场机构持仓最为拥挤的
⽅向，闪迪超配幅度⾼达 +2.16% ，本季度环⽐再度⼤幅提升 57 个基点，拥挤度持续刷新阶段新
⾼。与此同时，英伟达、苹果、微软等公认 AI ⻰头，却以 -2.39% ⾄ -1.24% 不等的偏离度，遭到
机构集体低配，形成鲜明的 " 反向拥挤 " 。
这⼀结构性背离对市场的影响直接⽽深远。 AI 硬件链条的极致拥挤意味着继续加仓空间趋于耗

尽，筹码⾼度集中之下，任何预期扰动都可能引发快速回撤；⽽被系统性低配的科技⻰头与软
件板块，则因潜在买盘充⾜，⼀旦基本⾯出现催化，仓位回补将形成明确的上⾏动⼒。
整体格局：巨头系统性低配，结构⾼度失衡
摩根⼠丹利本次报告跟踪了 28 只美股⼤盘科技⻰头，覆盖半导体、软件、互联⽹、硬件及设备
全产业链，以机构主动持仓相对标普 500 权重的偏离度作为衡量拥挤程度的核⼼指标。
数据呈现出清晰的两极分化。 2026 年第⼀季度，由英伟达、苹果、微软、亚⻢逊、⾕歌、
Meta 、特斯拉构成的 " 超⼤市值科技七巨头 " ，机构平均低配幅度为 -125 个基点，虽较 2025 年四
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 87 =====

季度的 -137 个基点收窄 12 个基点，但仍处于明确低配区间。与此同时，其余 21 只⼤盘科技股机
构整体超配 32 个基点，环⽐持平。
这⼀对⽐揭⽰出当前科技板块持仓的核⼼⽭盾：万亿市值⻰头被系统性低配，中⼩市值科技股
被集中超配，资⾦并未均匀分布，⽽是⾼度聚焦于少数细分⽅向。报告同时指出，主动持仓偏
离度与未来股价表现存在统计显著性 —— 机构超配达到极值后，股价对利空的敏感度急剧上
升；⽽显著低配的资产，则因潜在买盘充⾜，后续更易出现技术性上⾏。
最拥挤交易： AI 存储与设备链条，买⾄历史极值
在所有被跟踪标的中，闪迪以 +2.16% 的超配幅度⾼居榜⾸，成为全市场机构持仓最为拥挤的标
的，超配幅度是排名第⼆的希捷（希捷， +0.84% ）的两倍以上。本季度闪迪超配幅度环⽐⼤幅
提升 57 个基点，资⾦涌⼊速度持续加快。
闪迪的拥挤并⾮偶然。⾃ 2025 年⼀季度重新上市、 2025 年四季度纳⼊标普 500 以来，该股便成
为华尔街 AI 存储逻辑的核⼼载体。机构普遍认为， AI 数据中⼼的爆发式增⻓将持续拉动 NAND

Flash 及企业级 SSD 需求，⾏业周期向上拐点已经确⽴，由此形成⼏乎⽆分歧的集中抱团。
紧随闪迪之后，希捷、西部数据、美光均处于显著超配区间；半导体设备⻰头科天研发、泛林
研发、应⽤材料同样被机构集中持有。这些标的共同构成了当前机构拥挤交易的核⼼阵营，即 AI
算⼒基建的 " 卖铲⼈ " 链条。
从结构特征看，这⼀赛道的拥挤呈现三个典型信号：机构之间⼀致性极强，⼏乎没有分歧；单
⼀细分赛道吸纳了科技板块内最多的增量资⾦；越涨越买的⾃我强化趋势持续强化抱团⾏情。
反向拥挤： AI ⻰头与软件板块遭集体撤离
与 AI 硬件极致拥挤形成镜像的，是另⼀批资产被机构集体低配，形成 " 反向拥挤 " 。

===== Page 88 =====

英伟达以 -2.39% 的偏离度，成为机构最低配的⼤盘科技股。尽管其 AI 需求持续旺盛、业绩⾼速
增⻓，但机构主动持仓显著低于其标普 500 权重，本季度环⽐仅⼩幅收窄 18 个基点，依旧接近历
史低配极值。苹果（ -2.32% ）、微软（ -1.86% ）、亚⻢逊（ -1.24% ）、⾕歌全线处于深度低配区
间，形成 " 认知⾼配、仓位低配 " 的显著背离 —— 市场每天讨论这些 AI ⻰头，机构真实仓位却持续
低配。
软件板块同样遭到集体抛弃。 IBM 、甲⻣⽂、 Adobe 、 ServiceNow 、 Palo Alto Networks 等⻰头
软件股，机构持仓普遍低于标普 500 权重。机构的逻辑在于， AI 对软件业务的商业化拉动尚不清
晰，业绩兑现慢、确定性低，资⾦因此持续撤出，转向更具确定性的硬件环节。
⾄此，当前科技板块的 " 拥挤地图 " 已经清晰成型：最拥挤⽅向集中于 AI 存储与半导体设备（闪
迪、希捷、科天研发、泛林研发）；极端低配⽅向则覆盖 AI 算⼒⻰头、消费科技⻰头及通⽤软件

（英伟达、苹果、微软、 IBM 等）。
拥挤成因：三重逻辑驱动资⾦集中涌⼊
机构放弃英伟达、微软、苹果等公认⻰头，转⽽抱团存储与设备赛道，背后是三层⾼度⼀致的
华尔街逻辑。
其⼀，业绩确定性的极致追求。在宏观不确定性上升、利率波动加剧的背景下，机构只愿为 " 最
确定 " 的⽅向买单。 AI 算⼒建设是全球科技⾏业最确定的资本开⽀⽅向，存储与半导体设备作为
算⼒基建的必需环节，订单可⻅、需求可测、业绩可兑现，相⽐软件 AI 转型和消费电⼦创新具有
明显的确定性优势。
其⼆， " 卖铲⼈ " 逻辑的经典复现。⽆论哪家云⼚商或应⽤公司最终胜出，都必须采购芯⽚、存储
与设备。这种 " 不站队、全受益 " 的商业模式，最受机构⻘睐，推动资⾦集体涌⼊上游硬件链条。
其三，⻰头估值与市值双⾼，资⾦寻求弹性替代。微软、苹果、⾕歌等巨头市值过⼤、估值不
低，机构继续⼤幅加仓的空间有限。存储与设备标的市值适中、弹性更⼤，叠加 NAND Flash 价
格触底回升、 HBM 需求爆发等⾏业周期利好，成为资⾦溢出后的优先选择，进⼀步强化了抱团

⾏为。
⻛险与机会：拥挤末期信号已现，低配⻰头暗藏修复空间
当前 AI 硬件链条的拥挤，已呈现出典型的⾼危特征。闪迪、希捷等标的超配幅度已达历史⾼位，
绝⼤多数机构完成配置后，增量资⾦进场空间趋于耗尽。在此状态下，股价继续上⾏⾼度依赖
业绩超预期，⼀旦业绩仅符合预期，便可能出现 " ⻅光死 " 。与此同时，筹码⾼度集中之下， AI 资
本开⽀放缓、 NAND 价格波动、产能释放或地缘政策变化等任何利空，都可能触发资⾦同步出
逃，引发快速回撤。
与之相对，被极端低配的⻰头资产反⽽暗藏明确机会。根据摩根⼠丹利的统计规律，相对标普
500 显著低配的资产，未来出现技术性上⾏的概率更⾼。英伟达、苹果、微软、⾕歌等标的当前
处于 " 认知⾼配、仓位低配 " 的背离状态，⼀旦基本⾯出现催化、资⾦开始再平衡，仓位回补将形
成持续的上⾏动⼒。软件板块同样如此，随着 AI 功能落地、业绩逐步兑现，机构从低配回归标配
乃⾄超配的过程，将带来估值修复⾏情。
对投资者⽽⾔，当前持仓结构的核⼼启⽰在于： AI 硬件短期或仍有惯性，但⻛险收益⽐已显著恶

化，不宜盲⽬追⾼；极端低配的科技⻰头与软件板块，仓位背离带来的修复空间更为可观；⽽
市场从 " 硬件极致拥挤、⻰头持续低配 " 向结构性再平衡的切换，或将成为下⼀阶段的核⼼主线。

===== Page 89 =====

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
以上精彩内容来⾃追⻛交易台。
更详细的解读，包括实时解读、⼀线研究等内容，请加⼊【追⻛交易台 ▪ 年度会员】

===== Page 90 =====

===== Page 91 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
137 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 92 =====

扎克伯格在裁员前⼣的内部会议上亲⼝告知员⼯，公司正在追踪其设备使⽤⾏为，希望 AI
通过观察员⼯的⼯作⽅式，学习 " 真正聪明的⼈如何使⽤电脑 " 。
摘要：
Meta Platforms 正以前所未有的速度推进⼀场以 AI 为核⼼逻辑的组织重构。这场裁员不仅是规模
上的历史之最，更因扎克伯格亲⼝承认公司正在追踪员⼯设备⾏为以训练 AI 模型，⽽引发外界对
科技⾏业⽩领就业前景的深层忧虑。
此次裁员之所以引发⼴泛关注，部分原因在于⼀段泄露的全员会议⾳频。据 X 账号 Official Layoff
最新披露，扎克伯格在裁员前⼣的内部会议上亲⼝告知员⼯，公司正在追踪其设备使⽤⾏为，
以此训练 AI 模型。
扎克伯格的逻辑是： Meta 员⼯的平均智识⽔平显著⾼于⾏业通常雇⽤的外包数据标注⼈员，因
此与其借助外部承包商，不如直接让⾃⼰的员⼯充当训练数据来源。他表⽰，希望 AI 通过观察
员⼯的⼯作⽅式，学习 " 真正聪明的⼈如何使⽤电脑 "，并声称相关内容已做脱敏处理，不⽤于监
控或绩效追踪。

然⽽，扎克伯格同时承认，这⼀⽅案的推出⽅式存在失误，并坦⾔公司刻意对员⼯隐瞒了诸多
细节 —— 理由是，若将竞争性 AI 战略全盘公开，将有利于竞争对⼿。他原话称：" 让我们把所有
细节都像平时那样传达出去，这在战略上对我们并不有利。 "
这⼀表态在员⼯中引发强烈反弹。据 Business Insider 及 The Information 获得的内部信息，已有
逾千名员⼯就公司安装⿏标追踪软件⼀事联署请愿，折射出裁员阴云下紧绷的劳资关系。
⼯程与产品团队成裁员重⼼
据华尔街⻅闻此前⽂章，此次裁员受影响岗位约 8000 个，约占 Meta 近 7.8 万名员⼯总数的 10% 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 93 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
341 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
据报道，本轮裁员的核⼼打击对象是⼯程与产品团队。这与 Meta 近期的战略取向⾼度吻合 ——
公司正将⼤量资本从⼈⼒成本转向 GPU 采购与数据中⼼建设，以⽀撑其 AI 基础设施的快速扩
张。
Meta ⼈⼒资源主管 Janelle Gale 已于裁员前向员⼯发出内部备忘录，说明执⾏⽅案。与此同时，
公司将逾 7000 名员⼯重新部署⾄多个 AI 新部⻔，显⽰此次组织调整并⾮单纯的成本削减，⽽是
⼀次以 AI 为轴⼼的全⾯架构重塑。
知情⼈⼠还指出，此后年内仍可能有额外裁员，意味着本轮 10% 的削减或仅是开端。
AI 替代逻辑：从承包商到员⼯
此次事件所揭⽰的替代路径，正在引发市场对⽩领就业结构性⻛险的关注。从扎克伯格的表述
中可以梳理出⼀条清晰的逻辑链： AI ⾸先取代外部承包商，随后由员⼯训练 AI ，最终 AI 取代员⼯

本⾝。
这⼀模式并⾮ Meta 独有。随着 AI 能⼒持续提升，⼯程、产品、数据分析等传统⽩领岗位正⾯临
系统性压⼒。 Meta 此次将裁员与 AI 部⻔扩张同步推进，并以天⽂数字级别的资本⽀出为后盾，
为⾏业提供了⼀个具有⽰范意义的样本 —— 对投资者⽽⾔，这意味着科技公司的⼈效⽐将持续
提升；对从业者⽽⾔，则意味着职业安全边界正在被重新划定。
限免
请发表您的评论

===== Page 94 =====

图⽚
2 条评论
表情 发布评论
Tinolam8 ⼩时前中国⼴东省
0  回复
两极分化加剧的时代要来了！
陈尧清8 ⼩时前印度
0  回复
这家公司从头到尾都没有存在的意义

===== Page 95 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
将进⼀步把业务重⼼推向更⾼频、更刚需的产业场景
摘要：
作者  | ⻩昱
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，智元机器⼈旗下 “ 机器⼈租赁平台 ” 擎天租宣布，已于近期完成 A 轮及 A+ 轮融资，融资
⾦额达数亿元。
擎天租⽅⾯透露，本轮融资完成后，擎天租估值达到 70 亿元。
此外，此轮融资将重点⽤于 RaaS （ Robot as a Service ，机器⼈即服务）体系建设和⼯业等场
景拓展，推动机器⼈从 “ 活动现场⽤起来 ” ，进⼊⼯业制造、园区运营、仓储物流、商业服务等更
接近⽣产与运营⼀线的真实场景。
也就是说，与上⼀阶段主要围绕⽂旅、商演、展会、商业营销等展⽰型和互动型场景不同，本
轮融资后，擎天租将进⼀步把业务重⼼推向更⾼频、更刚需的产业场景。
由于⼈形机器⼈的成熟度尚不⾜，近年来，其应⽤场所更多局限在⽂娱场景。让⼈形机器⼈真

正进⼊⽣产⼒场景，是当前⾏业参与者共同的⽬标。
擎天租 CEO 李⼀⾔指出，机器⼈进⼊真实场景的难点，并不只是 “ 有没有机器 ” ，⽽是能否形成稳
定、可复制的应⽤交付能⼒。
“ 尤其在⼯业和园区等场景中，客⼾关注的不再是短期展⽰效果，⽽是机器⼈能否持续运⾏、按
需调度、及时维护，并在具体任务中创造实际价值。 ”
为了推动机器⼈的规模商业化，近年来机器⼈⼚商都在探索多元化的商业模式，除了直接销
售，租赁也是⼀种。
机器⼈租赁模式有效化解了⼈形机器⼈售价⾼昂与技术快速迭代之间的⽭盾，成为⼤众接触机
器⼈的主要⼊⼝。
公开资料显⽰， 2026 年，随着产能释放与平台型玩家⼊局，⽇租⾦从峰值 1.5-2 万元降⾄ 3000-
5000 元，⾏业从⼀机难求⾛向平台化、标准化运营，应⽤场景从舞台表演向商业营销、教育⽂
旅、⼯业试⽤等多元场景渗透。
据悉，成⽴近半年来，擎天租已完成 RaaS 应⽤服务平台的搭建，陆续上线合伙⼈ SaaS 、全球
化 App 以及智能派单、技能商店等核⼼系统和功能模块，初步建⽴起覆盖业务拓展、场景⽅案、

履约交付、技术⽀持和⽣态协同的组织体系。
截⾄⽬前，擎天租平台可调度机器⼈已超过 4000 台，服务⽹络覆盖全国多个城市。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 96 =====

73 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 97 =====

新阶段。
摘要：
作者  | 周智宇
华为轮值董事⻓徐直军最近⼜去了⼀趟东⻛汽⻋。
上⼀次是 2025 年 5 ⽉，双⽅签的是集团层⾯的全⾯深化战略合作协议。这⼀次，合作进⼀步下沉
到了品牌，东⻛旗下的奕境和猛⼠，分别与引望智能技术公司签署了战略合作 2.0 协议。
⼀年之内，徐直军两次到访同⼀家⻋企，在华为智能汽⻋业务的合作史上并不常⻅。更不常⻅
的是签约之后的⼀系列动作：他亲⾃试乘了奕境 X9 ，给华为乾崑与奕境的共创团队授牌 “ ⾦牌团
队 ” ，还带着引望公司 CEO 靳⽟志⼀起参观了东⻛研发总院。
从 1.0 到 2.0 ，双⽅合作的性质变了。 1.0 阶段的核⼼是东⻛引⼊华为的管理⽅法论，先在流程上
对⻬； 2.0 则进⼊了联合定义产品、双品牌同步绑定的阶段。在华为乾崑的合作版图⾥，东⻛⽬
前是渗透最深的那⼀个。
按照计划，奕境⾸款⻋型 X9 计划今年三季度上市，与启境 GT7 前后脚进⼊市场。华为乾崑在鸿
蒙智⾏之外趟的这条新路，即将迎来第⼀轮市场检验。
升级
外界对华为与东⻛合作的印象，⼤多停留在 “ 东⻛⽤了华为的智驾和座舱 ” 。但这层关系的起点，

⽐技术搭载更早。
据华尔街⻅闻了解，双⽅合作的 1.0 阶段，核⼼是华为向东⻛输出了 IPD （集成产品开发）和
IPMS （集成产品营销与服务）两套流程体系。华为向东⻛开放了⾃⼰的流程⽅法论，东⻛则在
产品定义和营销服务的运作层⾯做了⼀轮系统性的再造。
这是华为最核⼼的管理资产。把它交给⼀家合作伙伴，意味着双⽅先在管理语⾔和做事逻辑上
对⻬。
先改流程，再做产品。这个顺序很重要。
到了 2.0 ，合作从流程对⻬推进到了产品共创。据华尔街⻅闻了解， 2.0 阶段的关键词是 “ 联合定
义、深度赋能、⽣态共赢 ” ，华为不再只是提供技术⽅案让东⻛做适配，⽽是从产品定义、设计
研发、⽣产制造到营销推⼴全链条深度介⼊。
落到奕境 X9 这台⻋上，这种深度体现得很具体。 ADS 5 智驾、鸿蒙座舱、 XMC 数字底盘引擎、
896 线激光雷达、⻋载光⽅案全系标配，没有阉割，没有选装包。靳⽟志在北京⻋展上说，奕境
是华为乾崑技术 “ 最新、最全、⽆保留 ” 的落地载体。奕境汽⻋董事⻓汪俊君也强调，双⽅的融合

不⽌产品层⾯，是开发和技术底层的彻底打通。
ADS 5 这套系统要充分释放性能，需要的不是在现有⻋型上做后装集成，⽽是⼀台从三电到底盘
都与之原⽣匹配的整⻋。奕境 X9 就是照着这个逻辑造的，数据闭环原⽣互通，软硬件之间没有
“ 外挂 ” 和 “ 转接 ” 。⽤奕境⽅⾯⼈⼠的话说，双⽅不是在成品上嫁接，⽽是从底层开始共⽣。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 98 =====

百亿资⾦、超五千⼈联合团队、三年前期磨合，换来的是落地阶段的集中爆发。
⽽且不只是奕境。据华尔街⻅闻了解，东⻛旗下猛⼠品牌也同步与引望智能签署了 2.0 协议。猛
⼠的同步签约意味着华为在东⻛体系内的布局⽐外界看到的更宽。
渠道搭建同样照着⾼端品牌的标准⾛。奕境计划在 79 个城市铺设超过 300 家⻔店， 80% 的店⾯此
前经营的是豪华品牌， 60% 以上是全国百强经销商。对⼀个尚未交付⼀台⻋的新品牌来说，这
套渠道本⾝就是⼀种姿态。
签约主体也值得留意。 2.0 协议的对接⽅是引望智能，华为剥离华为⻋ BU （汽⻋业务单元）后成
⽴的独⽴实体，⻓安已通过阿维塔⼊股。东⻛跟引望签约，等于把合作关系嵌进了引望的商业
版图。东⻛未来会不会也⼊股引望，是这段关系下⼀步的关键变量。
⽤⼀位接近合作的⼈⼠的话说， “ 东⻛集团是最早跟华为乾崑合作的。 ” 从时间、从覆盖⾯、从渗
透深度来看，眼下东⻛在华为乾崑所有合作⻋企⾥已经⾛到了最前⾯。
出牌
华为乾崑⽬前已与 25 个⻋企品牌合作，推出 50 多款⻋型，智驾 ADS 累计搭载突破 170 万辆。论

铺量能⼒，国内第三⽅智驾供应商⾥已经没有对⼿。
但这 25 个伙伴⾥，多数⽤的是部件级或标准化⽅案。华为提供⼀套通⽤技术包，⻋企做适配调
校。靳⽟志说华为乾崑要做智能汽⻋的 “ 电⼦螺丝钉 ” ，把智能带⼊每⼀辆⻋。
螺丝钉模式能快速铺量，但也有天然的局限。当越来越多的⻋都装着同款华为智驾，品牌端很
难做出差异，消费者也越来越难分辨谁是深度合作、谁只是装了⼏个零部件。
华为乾崑需要的不只是到处拧螺丝钉的⼴度，还需要⼀个能把整套⼯具箱摊开的样板，让市场
看到全栈⽅案不打折扣地释放，到底能把⻋做到什么⾼度。
鸿蒙智⾏和华为乾崑是两条并⾏的路线。⼀位熟悉华为组织架构的⼈⼠向华尔街⻅闻打⽐⽅：
双⽅就像是不同的军种，各有各的打法，但打的是同⼀场仗。
鸿蒙智⾏已经初步证明了⾃⼰。但⼀位接近华为乾崑的⼈⼠对华尔街⻅闻表⽰，中国每年两千
多万辆乘⽤⻋，光靠鸿蒙智⾏⼏个品牌吃不完，乾崑必须⾃⼰往前⾛⼀步。
两套体系各有所⻓。鸿蒙智⾏脱胎于消费者 BG ，座舱⽣态和⼤屏交互是强项，⼿机端的应⽤优
势可以直接平移到⻋机。华为乾崑主攻智驾、底盘控制、传感器这些硬件侧模块，在鸿蒙智⾏

“ 后⾯半个⾝位 ” 提供技术⽀持。
⽽曾经被⾏业频繁讨论的 HI 模式，在华为内部已经不再提了。⼀位知情⼈⼠透露，市⾯上某些
“ 境 ” 品牌本质上更接近零部件供应，和眼下的境是两回事， “ 消费者其实是不知情的 ” 。
“ 境 ” 是乾崑亲⾃下场的产物，从 IPD 流程到产品定义到渠道搭建全程深度介⼊，但品牌归属和销
售运营留在⻋企⼿⾥。某种程度上， “ 境 ” 系列就是华为乾崑的产品灯塔，华为需要奕境和启境来
展⽰乾崑全栈⽅案在不受限条件下的天花板。
启境那边，华为数百⼈常驻⼴州，任正⾮亲⾃为品牌命名。奕境这边，徐直军⼀年两访，终端
⾼管调来操盘。两个 “ 境 ” 品牌拿到的资源规格，在乾崑体系⾥已是顶配。

===== Page 99 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
93 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
东⻛⾃⼰也需要这层关系。 2026 年东⻛锚定 325 万辆整体销量和 170 万辆新能源的⽬标，新能源
占⽐要从不到三分之⼀拉到超过⼀半。这个跨越靠东⻛⾃⼰的智能化能⼒很难独⽴完成，乾崑
的全栈⽅案和品牌势能是最现实的加速器。
但资源到位不等于结果到位。
奕境 X9 瞄准的 50 万级⼤六座 SUV ，是当下竞争最惨烈的细分赛道之⼀。在售⻋型近 70 款，⽉销
稳定过 5000 辆的不超过 10 款，理想 L9 和问界 M9 吃掉了品类⾥绝⼤多数利润和声量。
奕境品牌总经理曾清林喊出了 “ 做 9 系旗舰前三 ” 的⽬标，技术参数够硬，但⼀个新品牌能不能让
消费者相信它配得上这个位置，是⽐造好⻋更难的事。
五界之外，⻓安有阿维塔，⼴汽有启境，东⻛有奕境和猛⼠，其他⻋企也不同程度地⽤上了华

为乾崑的⽅案。华为正在⽤不同深度绑定每⼀家主流⻋企。当所有⼈都接⼊了华为的技术体
系，竞争的变量就不再是 “ 有没有华为 ” ，⽽是谁跟华为绑得更深、磨合得更好。
从这个⻆度看，东⻛与华为这轮升级的意义超出了⼀款⻋、⼀个品牌的范畴。它指向的是中国
汽⻋产业正在成型的⼀种新型整零关系，科技公司不再只是卖零部件的供应商，⽽是从流程、
产品到品牌全链条介⼊造⻋。传统⻋企让渡了⼀部分定义权，换来了智能化能⼒的快速补⻬。
但绑得深不等于卖得好。奕境 X9 三季度上市，留给⼀个全新品牌在 50 万级市场建⽴消费者信任
的窗⼝，并不宽裕。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 100 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
112 收藏 分享到 :
瑞银警告，美国消费降温在即，实际可⽀配收⼊增速已趋近于零，这将构成美股的核⼼⻛
险。市场误读了近期⻓端利率的上⾏：那并⾮通胀信号，⽽是名义增⻓强劲的映射。
摘要：
尽管 AI 驱动的⼀季度美国企业盈利表现强劲，但消费者⽀出降温的⻛险正成为美股上⾏的潜在绊
脚⽯。
据彭博，瑞银集团⾸席策略师 Bhanu Baweja 指出，随着实际可⽀配收⼊增速趋近于零、财政刺
激效应逐步退潮，美国消费端的放缓将对股市构成实质性威胁。他表⽰，市场过度聚焦 AI 超⼤规
模数据中⼼的资本开⽀，忽视了消费与⾦融板块的放缓⻛险 —— 这两个领域⼀季度的强劲盈利
增⻓掩盖了其内在的脆弱性。
他还指出，近期 30 年期美债收益率急剧攀升，已升⾄ 2007 年以来最⾼⽔平。市场普遍将其解读
为通胀担忧升温，但 Baweja 认为并⾮如此 ——这反映的是美国名义增⻓强劲，实际收益率才是

推⾼⻓端利率的主因。
他提醒，当前所谓的 “ 增⻓强劲 ” 主要依赖消费⽀撑，⽽消费降温在即。届时，市场现在为之定价
的增⻓预期将⾯临⼤幅下修。他称： “ 如果市场今天担忧的是通胀，那么明天就应该担忧增⻓。 ”
策略前瞻：从股债配置到地缘⻛险
在此背景下， Baweja 预计⼤盘股将跑赢⼩盘股，成⻓股将优于价值股，尤其在中东局势持续动
荡的环境下。尽管欧美均⾯临不利因素，他仍认为美股表现将强于欧股。
在⼤宗商品市场⽅⾯，当前价格⾛势表明交易员已基本消化伊朗冲突的影响，但他并不认同这
⼀判断。他认为，六个⽉期⽯油期货价格眼下可能被低估，因为相关谈判陷⼊僵局，外交解决
路径尚不明朗。⼀旦地缘局势再度升温，⼤宗商品市场将⾯临重估，进⽽扰动通胀预期和企业
成本端。
全球配置层⾯，⽇本和英国的收益率曲线已趋于陡峭，具备⼀定投资价值。谈及英国，他预计
英格兰银⾏将在 2027 年启动降息，⽽⾮市场部分观点所认为的今年加息 —— 尽管英国通胀传导
速度较快，他的判断与主流预期存在明显分歧。
限免
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 101 =====

写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 102 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
35 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
⾕歌 I/O 2026 标志着 AI 产业从 “ 模型参数竞赛 ” 正式迈⼊ “ 智能体经济 ” 时代。技术竞争
的核⼼变量已不再是单⼀模型的跑分⾼低，⽽是全栈整合能⼒、成本可控性和终端分
发权。
摘要：
⾕歌 I/O 2026 标志着 AI 产业从 “ 模型参数竞赛 ” 正式迈⼊ “ 智能体经济 ” 时代。技术竞争的核⼼
变量已不再是单⼀模型的跑分⾼低，⽽是全栈整合能⼒、成本可控性和终端分发权。
站在当前时点，投资者需要清醒地认识到： AI 产业的 “ 估值泡沫 ” 正在被真⾦⽩银的业绩验
证所置换，⽽产业链中真正具备壁垒的环节，将从⼤模型⼚商本⾝，逐步向算⼒基础设
施、应⽤平台和底层智能体基础设施迁移。
⽴即解锁全⽂
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 103 =====

资格之⽇起正式就任该⾏董事，任期⾄第七届董事会任期届满之⽇⽌，在满⾜法律法规和本⾏
公司章程规定的情况下，任期届满可以连选连任。
作为中信体系内成⻓起来的⻣⼲，现年 53 岁（ 1972 年 10 ⽉出⽣）的吕天贵可谓是⼀名不折不扣
的 “ 多⾯⼿ ” 。
履历显⽰，吕天贵拥有四川⼤学⼯商管理硕⼠学位及⾼级会计师职称，现任中信银⾏党委副书
记。
回顾其职业⽣涯，吕天贵曾任中信银⾏信⽤卡中⼼党委委员、总裁助理、副总裁、党委书记、
总裁，总⾏零售银⾏部总经理、私⼈银⾏部总经理，总⾏业务总监、党委委员、副⾏⻓。
值得⼀提的是，吕天贵的履历并不局限于银⾏业务。他曾跨界掌舵信托，担任中信信托有限责
任公司党委书记、董事⻓；并曾兼任中信百信银⾏董事⻓、阿尔⾦银⾏董事及中国银联董事。
从信⽤卡到⼤零售，从商业银⾏到信托业，吕天贵积累了丰富的跨市场、跨领域⾦融管理经
验。
沈强获聘副⾏⻓
在⾏⻓⼈选落定的同时，中信银⾏的⾼管团队也新增了⼀位副⾏⻓。
公告显⽰，董事会同意聘任沈强为该⾏副⾏⻓，⾃监管机构核准其副⾏⻓任职资格之⽇起正式

就任。
现年 52 岁（ 1974 年 3 ⽉出⽣）的沈强，拥有中国科学院⼤学管理学博⼠的背景，现任中信银⾏党
委委员，并兼任中信银⾏（国际）有限公司董事、⾏政总裁等职务。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 104 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
52 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
沈强的履历展现了他在银⾏前、中、后台全⽅位的扎实历练。
他曾任总⾏董监事会办公室⼀级部总经理助理级，总⾏营业部党委委员、副总经理，总⾏投资
银⾏部副总经理（主持⼯作）、总经理，总⾏党委办公室、办公室主任，成都分⾏党委书记、⾏
⻓，总⾏授信执⾏部总经理；曾兼任信银（⾹港）投资有限公司董事。
他丰富的总分⾏管理经验与境内外业务视⻆，将成为中信银⾏管理团队中的重要 “ 拼图 ” 。
“ ⽅吕配 ” 成型
此前的 3 ⽉，中信银⾏还召开董事会会议，同意聘任赵元新为该⾏副⾏⻓， 5 ⽉监管机构核准其
任职资格之⽇。
⾄此，中信银⾏全新的核⼼⾼管矩阵已然成型。
随着吕天贵、沈强的履新，中信银⾏正式确⽴了以董事⻓⽅合英、⾏⻓吕天贵为核⼼的 “ ⽅吕配 ”
领导架构。
⾼管团队还包括了，副⾏⻓胡罡、谢志斌、贺劲松、⾕凌云，副⾏⻓、⻛险总监⾦喜年，以及

新聘的副⾏⻓赵元新、沈强（后者任职资格待核准）。此外还有，业务总监陆⾦根，董事会秘书
张⻘。
作为国内领先的股份制商业银⾏，中信银⾏的资产规模已经突破 10 万亿元。最新的 1 季报显⽰，
截⾄报告期末，集团资产总额 10.24 万亿元，较上年末增⻓ 1.09% 。 2026 年 1 季度，实现归属于
该⾏股东的净利润 200.98 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 3.02% 。营业收⼊ 546.49 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 5.23% 。
⾯对银⾏业净息差收窄、轻资本转型加速的⾏业⼤势，新⼀届⾼管团队成型后，将如何带领中
信银⾏进⼀步成⻓，⽆疑将成为资本市场与⼴⼤投资者密切关注的焦点。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 105 =====

⾼盛认为，决定美股能否承受利率压⼒的关键，不只是收益率⾼低，更在于上升的 “ 来源、
速度和起点 ” 。当前市场由通胀⽽⾮增⻓主导，股债相关性已跌⾄近三⼗年最负⽔平，股债
双杀⻛险上升。⾼盛建议关注 “ 股跌 + 利率升 ” 双元期权，以对冲潜在尾部⻛险。
摘要：
美债收益率持续攀升正在重塑跨资产格局，⽽⾼盛认为，投资者不应只关注收益率的绝对⽔平
—— 变动的速度与背后的驱动因素，同样是决定股市能否消化利率压⼒的关键变量。
据追⻛交易台，上周，美国通胀数据意外⾛⾼，经济活动数据保持稳健，全球债券遭遇抛售，
再通胀宏观背景叠加英国和⽇本市场的溢出效应，推动⻓端国债收益率升⾄数⼗年⾼位。⾼盛
数据显⽰，美国 10 年期收益率上周单周涨幅超过 2 个标准差，股债相关性随之跌⾄ 1990 年代末以
来最负⽔平，平衡型投资组合⾯临股债双杀的严峻考验。
⾯对这⼀局⾯，⾼盛在资产配置上维持债券 3 个⽉及 12 个⽉中性评级，并指出 " 股跌 / 利率升 " 双元
期权对冲策略对平衡型投资组合⽽⾔具有较⾼吸引⼒，尤其适合作为叠加对冲⼯具。

股债相关性跌⾄近三⼗年最负⽔平
⾼盛最新 GOAL Kickstart 报告指出，美股与美国 10 年期国债收益率的 2 个⽉滚动相关性，已降⾄
1990 年代末以来最负的⽔平。
这⼀转变并⾮偶然。报告认为，⾃中东战争及随之⽽来的能源价格冲击以来，市场已将通胀⽽
⾮增⻓视为宏观冲击的主要来源。⾼盛 " 全球增⻓ " 主成分因⼦（ PC1 ）与 " 货币政策 " 主成分因⼦
（ PC2 ）的相对波动率下降，与股债收益率相关性⾛负同步发⽣。
与此同时，标普 500 与短端通胀定价（直接受能源价格上涨影响）的相关性急剧转负，与 10 年期
实际利率的相关性同样如此；⽽与远期通胀的相关性则仍维持正值。这⼀分化表明，市场当前
对通胀驱动的利率上⾏⾼度敏感。
收益率上⾏的 " 源头 " 决定股市反应
⾼盛强调，股市对收益率上⾏的反应，在很⼤程度上取决于利率变动的来源、速度与起始⽔平
三个维度。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 106 =====

在来源⽅⾯，由增⻓改善驱动的收益率上⾏通常能被股市较好消化，因为增⻓乐观情绪可以缓
冲折现率上升的压⼒；⽽在通胀主导的利率环境下，股债收益率相关性则会转负。⾼盛指出， 4
⽉以来⽀撑股价的增⻓预期，更多来⾃微观层⾯（如 AI 投资）⽽⾮宏观催化剂，这与以往有所不
同。
在速度⽅⾯，即便利率上⾏的来源相对温和，变动速度本⾝也可能成为阻⼒。历史数据显⽰，
收益率急剧、⽆序上升时，股市往往难以消化。此前债券抛售总体尚属有序，但上周美国 10 年
期收益率单周涨幅超过 2 个标准差，提醒投资者不宜过早淡化利率右尾⻛险。
绝对⽔平有参考价值，但并⾮最强信号
在收益率绝对⽔平⽅⾯，⾼盛认为其影响存在，但相对较弱。历史上，美国 10 年期名义收益率
突破 5% 、或实际收益率超过 2% ⾄ 2.5% 时，往往与更负的股债相关性相关联。
⾼盛认为，更具参考价值的指标是 10 年期实际利率与⻓期实际 GDP 增⻓共识预期之间的差值
—— 当前该差值为 2.1% 。当实际利率⾼于⻓期增⻓预期时，意味着货币政策处于偏紧状态，这
对股市构成更具挑战性的宏观背景。
从当前估值来看，美国 10 年期收益率处于 4.60% ，在过去 10 年历史中仅位于第 2 百分位，显⽰债
券从⻛险溢价⻆度已更具吸引⼒。⾼盛预测，未来 3 个⽉、 6 个⽉和 12 个⽉美国 10 年期收益率将
分别降⾄ 4.25% 、 4.10% 和 4.07% 。
对冲策略：股跌 / 利率升双元期权具吸引⼒
⾯对股债双杀⻛险，⾼盛建议投资者关注 " 股跌 / 利率升 " 双元期权（ equity down/rates up dual
binaries ）作为对冲⼯具，尤其适合作为平衡型投资组合的叠加策略。
⾼盛数据显⽰，在标普 500 下跌超过 5% 且叠加 10 年期实际利率上⾏的情景下，该类混合期权的
历史平均赔付相对当前价格具有较⾼性价⽐，在各类对冲⼯具中排名靠前。
值得注意的是，尽管股债收益率的隐含相关性⾃ 2 ⽉以来已有所下降，但相较于已实现相关性，
隐含相关性仍处于偏⾼⽔平，这意味着市场对进⼀步利率冲击的对冲需求尚未充分释放，相关
对冲⼯具的定价仍有空间。

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
以上精彩内容来⾃追⻛交易台。
更详细的解读，包括实时解读、⼀线研究等内容，请加⼊【追⻛交易台 ▪ 年度会员】

===== Page 107 =====

===== Page 108 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
281 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 109 =====

彭博专栏作家 Jonathan Levin 指出，⾼债券收益率并⾮市场警报，⽽是 AI 资本开⽀周期中
防⽌泡沫失控的制衡⼒量。历史经验表明， 1920 年代与 1990 年代末，过低的利率环境曾将
技术驱动的繁荣推向危险泡沫。当前强劲的企业盈利预期正在消化⾼利率带来的压⼒，为
市场提供了不同于以往的缓冲。
摘要：
美国国债收益率攀升⾄多年⾼位，股市却同步逼近历史峰值。这⼀看似⽭盾的组合，正引发部
分投资者担忧。彭博专栏作家 Jonathan Levin 指出，⾼债券收益率并⾮市场警报，⽽是 AI 周期
中，防⽌泡沫失控所必需的制衡⼒量。
将当下与历史上科技⾰命时期对⽐，⾼收益率的逻辑反⽽更显清晰。 1920 年代与 1990 年代末的
经验表明，过低的利率环境容易将技术驱动的繁荣推向危险泡沫。当前⻓端利率⾼企，在 AI 资
本开⽀扩张期正充当着避免市场过热的 “ 减震器 ” ⻆⾊。
近⽇，美国 30 年期国债收益率⼀度升⾄ 5.2% ，为 2007 年以来最⾼； 10 年期收益率创 2025 年 1 ⽉

以来新⾼。尽管利率攀升，标普 500 指数仍逼近历史⾼点，仅较峰值低约 2% 。
这背后是盈利的⽀撑：华尔街对该指数 2026 年每股盈利的⼀致预期已上调 7% 。投资者⽤⾏动表
明，在盈利前景持续改善的背景下，当前利率⽔平并未被视作市场灾难。
盈利消化利率，财富反哺增⻓
盈利增⻓，正在不断消化⾼利率带来的压⼒。
⾃ 2023 年初以来， S&P 500 年化涨幅约 23% ，⼏乎追平互联⽹泡沫时期 27% 的惊⼈表现。截⾄
本周⼆，标普 500 远期市盈率为 20.7 倍，虽然⾼于过去⼗年 19 倍的平均⽔平，但整体仍处于偏贵
⽽⾮疯狂的区间。
这⼀轮上涨的核⼼驱动⼒是盈利，⽽⾮流动性。⾃今年 2 ⽉以来，华尔街对标普 500 2026 年每股
收益的⼀致预期已上调约 7% 。与此同时，企业整体杠杆⽔平并不⾼，资产负债表相对健康，对
利率上升的承受能⼒明显强于过去。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 110 =====

与此同时，股市上涨还带来了强劲的财富效应。美联储数据显⽰，⾃ 2022 年底以来，美国家庭
净资产增加超过 40 万亿美元。财富增加推动消费，消费增⻓⼜进⼀步⽀撑企业盈利和股市表
现，形成⼀个不断强化的正向循环。
短期油价，⻓期 AI ：利率上⾏的双重推⼿
此轮债券收益率上⾏有两条并⾏逻辑线。短期层⾯，美伊紧张局势推动油价急速反弹，通胀预
期随之升温，给国债市场带来直接抛压。中⻓期层⾯， AI 引发的资本开⽀超级周期正在从结构
上重塑利率环境。
理论上，技术⾰命往往伴随着较⾼的利率⽔平。当⽣产率提升预期推⾼资本的边际回报率时，
信贷需求随之扩张，若借贷成本不同步上升，便会滋⽣过热⻛险。 AI 驱动下，芯⽚制造商利润暴
增，数据中⼼不断涌现，正是这⼀逻辑的现实体现。
然⽽， AI 能否真正实现⼤规模商业变现，⽬前仍是未知数。若 AI 公司最终能将技术优势有效转化
为利润，当前的股市涨势或有更坚实的⽀撑；反之，若商业化进程迟滞，估值泡沫的⻛险便将
重新浮上台⾯。在此之前，⾼企的债券收益率正在扮演市场纪律执⾏者的⻆⾊。

历史教训：低利率时代的泡沫陷阱
历史为当下提供了重要参照：宽松货币政策容易助⻓技术⾰命中的资产泡沫。
1920 年代，电⽓化与汽⻋产业爆发，⽆线电公司（ RCA ）成为时代标志性股票，经济欣欣向
荣。然⽽美联储于 1927 年下调贴现率，为已然过热的市场注⼊更多燃料，最终酿成 1929 年股灾
与⼤萧条。
1990 年代的互联⽹热潮提供了更复杂的案例。时任美联储主席格林斯潘总体保持了克制的货币
政策， 10 年期美债实际收益率在整个 1990 年代平均约为 3% ，远⾼于本⼗年迄今约 1% 的均值。
这种克制或许是互联⽹泡沫破裂后经济未陷⼊更深创伤的原因之⼀。
然⽽， 1998 年俄罗斯违约与⻓期资本管理公司（ LTCM ）崩盘后，美联储紧急降息 75 个基点，
事后看，这⼀举动为泡沫的最后⼀波膨胀推波助澜 —— 尽管格林斯潘于 1999 年 6 ⽉重启加息，但
泡沫彼时已基本成型。
当下的 AI 热潮与之相似：技术⾰命的兴奋中，货币政策稍有不慎便可能将繁荣推向危险。当前
⻓端利率⾼企，某种程度上正是吸取历史教训后的主动克制。

美联储⾯临的政策考验
当前的货币政策正是上述历史教训的现实延伸。尽管特朗普公开呼吁⼤幅降息，美联储⾄今仍
维持着限制性⽴场，避免通胀再度失控。
对于即将接掌美联储的沃什⽽⾔，放弃这⼀⽴场并⾮没有代价。分析⼈⼠认为，当前利率⽔平
实际上起到了 “ 减速带 ” 的作⽤ —— 防⽌股市亢奋演变为失控的投机热潮。
值得注意的是，此轮收益率上⾏并⾮美国独有。英国、德国、⽇本等发达市场同样⾯临债券收
益率攀升的压⼒，但它们⽆法像美国那样从 AI 投资热潮中获益。因此，⾼利率对这些经济体的冲
击更为明显，反映出全球经济在 AI 时代的分化正在加剧。
在美国，债市的克制正在将 AI 繁荣维持在可持续轨道上。这⼀次，⾼利率能否避免重蹈历史覆
辙，仍有待时间验证。

===== Page 111 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
178 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
MobileUser105811 ⼩时前中国四川省
0  回复
所以这⼏天是市场的过敏反应，接下来继续 high 起来

===== Page 112 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 113 =====

存储涨价周期叠加国产替代机遇，让⻓鑫迎来⾼光时刻。市场甚⾄给出万亿级估值预期，
但⾏业周期波动、扩产压⼒及 AI 存储竞争，也将成为其冲击 “ 中国海⼒⼠ ” 道路上的关键考
验。
摘要：
“ 韩国巨头布局存储，中国巨头热衷于外卖。 ”
这⼀波存储涨价潮，很多⼈⽤戏谑的⽅式来表达对中国⼏家互联⽹公司的 “ 恨铁不成钢 ” ，但⻓鑫
存储却在⽤⼀份极度亮眼⼜充满周期博弈的招股书 —— 业绩真实炸裂 + 国产替代故事，打破了这
种刻板的印象，让中国有了 “AI+ 存储⾃主 ” 闭环的超级叙事。
5 ⽉ 17 ⽇晚间，⻓鑫存储⺟公司⻓鑫科技更新了 IPO 材料，新的招股书显⽰， 2025 年公司营收
617.99 亿元、归⺟净利 18.75 亿元。数据显⽰，过去近 10 年，⻓鑫科技接连亏损，累计亏损超
366 亿元。与此同时， 2026 年第⼀季度，公司营收 508 亿元，归⺟净利润 247.62 亿元，预计上半
年归⺟净利润 500-570 亿元。
盈利⽐预期早，业绩原地起⻜，指引预期乐观，这是⻓鑫科技的三个关键信息。

⼀夜之间，中国硬科技的故事⼜被改写了， “ 合肥压对了 ” “ 中国存储之光 ” 的标签开始刷屏。不
过，喝彩的同时，我们也要思考：⻓鑫科技这份业绩代表的是什么，这家公司的核⼼优势在哪
⾥，未来会⾯临什么样的⻛险和挑战？
以及，⼀个终极之问：⻓鑫会成为 “ 中国海⼒⼠ ” 吗？
01 ⼀夜翻⾝，从巨亏中站起来
10 年累计亏损 366 亿元， 2026 年单个季度净利润 330 亿，这个逆转速度历史罕⻅。⻓鑫的盈利，
给我的感受是 “ 忽如⼀夜春⻛来 ” 。
2025 年 12 ⽉ 31 ⽇，答复监管问询函时，⻓鑫科技当时的⼝径是 —— 只要 2026 年均价维持在
2025 年 9 ⽉⽔平，且出货量随产能爬坡稳定增⻓， 2026 年公司将实现稳健盈利。
这次更新招股书，盈利时间超预期，盈利规模亦超预期。
从亏损的泥潭中⾛出来的⻓鑫，展现出了爆发式的增⻓能⼒，可以说是 IPO 路上最好的⾃证材料
—— 好不好，业绩就摆在那⾥。
⾄于为什么业绩⼀夜之间扭转，多位存储产业研究员⼀致认为主要原因是存储涨价，这⼀点也

在招股书中有所提及。
“2025 年下半年以来，产品价格的持续上涨带动了产品销售⽑利率和利润⽔平的快速提升，并推
动了 2025 年实现扭亏为盈。 ” 招股书概览部分写到。
内存紧缺，⼏乎快持续⼀年了，这段时间⾥，拥有产能的原⼚，⾯对下游那些在成本线上挣扎
的消费电⼦品牌客⼾，拥有了绝对的话语权。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 114 =====

“（ 2023 、 2024 、 2025 ）各期产能利⽤率分别为 87.06% 、 92.46% 、 95.73% ， ” ⻓鑫科技在招股书
中披露产销情况， “ 按容量⼝径统计的产销率分别为 99.45% 、 97.94% 、 90.67% 。 ”
在我看来，这份数据暗含着两个数据：产能扩⼤，且⼿⾥有存货；产能近乎满载，在价格保持
不变的情况下，未来的业绩基本都是可以预⻅的。
招股书中强调， 2026 年上半年的营收指引为 1100-1200 亿元，归⺟净利润和扣⾮归⺟净利润分
别为 500-570 亿元、 520-580 亿元。
所以，在疯抢存储的超级周期之下，但凡有产能就能从中分⼀杯羹，再叠加部分巨头退出消费
级存储市场，⻓鑫⾛向了⾃⼰最好的时候。
02 10 倍 “ 情绪估值 ”
超级周期之下， SK 海⼒⼠、美光在资本市场上的表现，给⻓鑫的估值暴涨做了近半年的铺垫。
“ 市场对其估值都上看到 1 万亿元了。 ”2025 年底，⻓鑫科技答复问询的时候，⼀位研究员在谈及
估值时说，当时他的判断理由是 “ 国产存储 ” “ 全球缺货 ” ，彼时摩尔线程和沐曦股份这种 “ 中国英

伟达 ” 市值都越过 3000 亿。
⻓鑫的估值故事没有⽌步于此，部分激进的研究员已经将估值上看到 2 万亿元。
“1000 多亿利润， 2 万亿市值很合理。 ” ⻓期关注半导体产业的投资⼈陈启在谈及 2 万亿估值时说，
这相当于给了⻓鑫科技 20 倍 PE ，作为对⽐，华尔街对美光 2026 ⾃然年远期市盈率预期是 10 倍左
右，⽽ SK 海⼒⼠是 5 倍左右。 “ 周期来了什么事情都有可能发⽣。 ”
陈启认为， 10 倍 PE 有合理性，甚⾄ 20 倍 PE 也都存在可能。 “ ⻓鑫的核⼼机会，是站在三星、海
⼒⼠和美光的对⾯，代表了中国存储上了牌桌。 ”
10 倍 PE 是对标⾏业头部的逻辑，到了 20 倍 PE ，影响估值模型的就是情绪价值了。
截⽌ 5 ⽉ 19 ⽇， A 股市值排名前⼗，第⼀名是农业银⾏，市值 2.11 万亿，第⼗名是⻓江电⼒，市
值 0.67 万亿。这意味着，按照 20 倍 PE 估值的⻓鑫科技上市即巅峰。
只不过，作为⼀个周期性极强的产业，情绪价值和潜在⻛险都要关注 —— 当产能拉满，且扩产

还在持续，⽽⼀旦⾏业却进⼊下⾏周期，存货价格暴跌，将会引发经营业绩剧烈波动，⻓鑫在
特别⻛险提⽰中提到了 2022 年⾄ 2023 年上半年这个下⾏周期，⾏业普遍亏损的情况。
按当前的乐观预期，存储紧缺的问题最快要到 2028 年才能缓解，所以未来⼀年半的时间⾥，⻓
鑫仍然会处在⾃⼰的甜蜜点之下。
⽬前，海外巨头们都在推动与⼤客⼾签署战略⻓期协议（ LTA ），以不同的条款来锁定未来的产
能，这在某种程度上也让存储产业跳出了原有的周期性，因为锁定产能，相当于对业绩做了兜
底承诺，也就意味着确定性。
只不过从⻓鑫⾃⾝层⾯来看，上市之后其盈利⽔平势必会被投资⼈拿来与⾏业头部企业细致对
标。公司现阶段仍在持续扩产，⼤额资产折旧会持续压制盈利表现，短期内利润率⼤概率将稳
定在固定区间；叠加过往累计未弥补亏损体量较⼤，亏损难以快速填平，短期内也暂不具备分
红条件。

===== Page 115 =====

还有⼀个竞争的问题，另⼀家中国存储巨头⻓江存储也在推动 IPO 进程，这就像 2025 年那波国
产 GPU 上市潮，⼤家都承担着演绎 “ 中国英伟达 ” 的故事，⽽资本市场上的⽔，毕竟有限。
03 “ 中国海⼒⼠ ” ？
由于巨头的⾼增⻓叙事，中国公司总被贴标签，过去是 “ 中国英伟达 ” ，存储则被类⽐为 “ 中国海
⼒⼠ ” 。
但现阶段，⻓鑫存储与 SK 海⼒⼠，不完全从属于同⼀个故事。
市场机构 Omdia 披露的数据显⽰，⻓鑫⽬前市占率 7.67% ，但从各家业绩中的产品和营收构成反
映的情况来看，海外存储云⼚⼏乎都切换到了 “AI 赛道 ” ，⻓鑫存储更突出的依旧是传统存储的故
事，但也正在向 AI 叙事转变。
在此前的答复问询函中，⻓鑫科技披露，移动终端产品是其⽬前营收基本盘，⼩⽶、传⾳、荣
耀、 vivo 、 OPPO 等智能⼿机⼚商，对应的是 LPDDR 系列产品；阿⾥、字节等云⼚商主要对应
的是 DDR 系列产品。
两类客⼾的营收贡献⼤致为 9:1 左右。
到了 2026 年 5 ⽉ 17 ⽇， DDR 系列代表的 AI 服务器相关产品贡献的营收，跃升⾄ 30%+ ，但主⼒依

旧是 LPDDR 系列产品线，占⽐超过 66% 。
⻓鑫科技营收构成，单位：万元
⼀位 DRAM 存储⾏业⼈⼠表⽰，⻓鑫填补了海外存储原⼚退出传统业务的缺⼝。
“ 业绩爆发是双向奔赴，三⼤家技术和产能转移先进产品，他们聚焦北美市场，空出了国内的市
场空间，正好⻓鑫提前布局，⼜刚好有对应缺⼝的产品及产能，缺⼝刚好被填补了。 ”
海外三⼤原⼚，现在核⼼的精⼒都在 HBM 内存，它的⾼带宽特性成为了算⼒体系当中最为关键
的⼀环，但这些对于⻓鑫来说，则是⼀个未来的故事。
⽬前招股书披露的内容，对 HBM 只字未提，但值得关注的是，此前沐曦的招股书提到了 C600 这
款 GPU ，其中 128 ⻚有⼀句， “ 该系列基于国产供应链的产品曦云 C600 已回⽚并点亮。 ”
不过没有任何线索指向 C600 搭载的 HBM3e 芯⽚就来⾃⻓鑫，但国产供应链的标签却打开了国产
存储在 AI 时代的想象空间。从技术上来看，国产 HBM 也还有另⼀种可能性 —— 与客⼾联合研
发，提供预留好 TSV 孔位的 DRAM 颗粒，由客⼾来进⾏ 3D 堆叠封装。

只不过，这些都是未来的故事，⻓鑫需要的是⾛好脚下的路，投资者也需要有⾜够的耐⼼。 “ 你
专研技术，然后脚踏实地的去⾛，就是能够⾛到⼭顶之巅。 ” 陈启在他最新的视频⾥如是说道。
本⽂来源：腾讯科技

===== Page 116 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
297 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 117 =====

⾼盛预计，⾼端铜箔（ HVLP3 及以上规格）的可寻址市场规模预计将以 122% 的年复合增
⻓率扩张，到 2028 年将占全球 PCB 铜箔总市场的 33% 。在供需层⾯，考虑到主要供应商
HVLP3+ 产品的良率仅维持在 70% ⾄ 80% ，⾼盛预计⾏业有效产能的实际供应缺⼝将在
2026 ⾄ 2028 年分别达到 28% 、 39% 和 38% ，远超名义产能所呈现的温和失衡。
摘要：
AI 服务器加速迭代正在重塑 PCB 铜箔⾏业格局。⾼盛最新研究报告指出，随着⾼端 HVLP 铜箔需
求在 2026 年下半年进⼊⼤规模采⽤阶段，供需失衡将在未来三年持续加剧，⾏业供应缺⼝或将
成为结构性 " 新常态 " ，并为少数具备量产能⼒的供应商带来显著的定价权与利润扩张空间。
据追⻛交易台，⾼盛最新报告指出，⾼端铜箔（ HVLP3 及以上规格）的可寻址市场规模预计将
以 122% 的年复合增⻓率扩张，从 2025 年的 2.16 亿美元增⻓⾄ 2028 年的 24 亿美元，届时将占全
球 PCB 铜箔总市场的 33%。在供需层⾯，考虑到主要供应商 HVLP3+ 产品的良率仅维持在 70% ⾄

80% ，⾼盛预计⾏业有效产能的实际供应缺⼝将在 2026 ⾄ 2028 年分别达到 28% 、 39% 和 38% ，
远超名义产能所呈现的温和失衡。
⾼盛认为，供应短缺将为⾼端铜箔供应商提供持续的提价窗⼝，并将铜箔⾏业的商业模式从成
本驱动型推向价值驱动型。⾼端 HVLP 铜箔的均价较传统 HTE 铜箔⾼出逾⼀倍，⽑利率普遍达到
40% ⾄ 60% 以上，⽽ HTE 铜箔的⽑利率仅为 0% ⾄ 10% 。
需求端： AI 服务器换代驱动 HVLP 铜箔需求爆发
AI 服务器与⾼端以太⽹交换机对信号完整性要求的持续提升，是本轮⾼端铜箔需求爆发的核⼼驱
动⼒。⾼盛报告指出， HVLP3+ 铜箔的需求量将以 97% 的年复合增⻓率增⻓，从 2025 年的每⽉
679 吨增⾄ 2028 年的每⽉ 5,206 吨。
从应⽤场景来看， AI 服务器对 HVLP3+ 铜箔的需求量预计将在 2025 年⾄ 2028 年间增⻓逾 6 倍。与
此同时，以太⽹交换机的升级换代同样贡献显著需求增量 ——400G 交换机⾃ 2023 年起采⽤搭载

HVLP3 的 M7 级覆铜板， 800G 交换机⾃ 2024 年下半年起采⽤搭载 HVLP3 和 HVLP4 的 M8 级覆铜
板，⽽预计⾃ 2026 年下半年起量产的 1.6T 交换机将采⽤搭载 HVLP4 和 HVLP5 的 M9 级覆铜板。
在产品规格迁移⽅⾯， HVLP4 正加速成为当前最先进 AI 服务器的主流规格。⾼盛预计，英伟达
VR200 的中板（ 44 层）和交换板（ 24 层）将采⽤搭载 HVLP4 铜箔的 M9 级覆铜板，亚⻢逊 AWS
Trainium 3 UBB （ 28 ⾄ 30 层）亦将升级⾄搭载 HVLP4 铜箔的更⾼规格覆铜板。⾼盛渠道调研显
⽰， 2026 年下半年 HVLP4 铜箔需求量将较上半年⾄少增⻓ 100% ，达到每⽉⾄少 560 吨，超过主
要供应商三井⾦属（ Mitsui Kinzoku ）每⽉ 490 吨的产能上限。
从产品结构演变来看， HVLP3 在⾼端铜箔总需求中的占⽐将从 2025 年的 76% 逐步下降⾄ 2028 年
的 30% ，⽽ HVLP4 的渗透率将从 2025 年的 24% 升⾄ 2028 年的 46% ， HVLP5 则预计⾃ 2027 年起

开始贡献需求。
供给端：良率瓶颈令有效产能严重受限
尽管⾏业名义产能扩张速度可观，但良率损耗与产线切换损耗使实际有效供给远低于账⾯数
字。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 118 =====

⾼盛测算， HVLP3+ ⾏业名义产能将从 2025 年的每⽉ 1,057 吨增⾄ 2028 年的每⽉ 4,977 吨，年复
合增⻓率约 68% ；但在扣除约 70% ⾄ 80% 的良率损耗及产线切换时 10% ⾄ 20% 的产能损失后，
有效产能仅能从每⽉ 803 吨增⾄每⽉ 3,759 吨，年复合增⻓率降⾄ 67% 。
在主要供应商层⾯， Mitsui Kinzoku 作为⾏业⻰头，其 HVLP3+ 有效产能预计在 2026 ⾄ 2028 年分
别仅为每⽉ 718 吨、 870 吨和 1,140 吨，对应年复合增⻓率约 35% 。⾼盛渠道调研显⽰，客⼾通常
优先向 Mitsui Kinzoku 下单，但即便该公司维持满产运营，其产能仍不⾜以覆盖全部客⼾需求，
这为第⼆供应商创造了结构性机会。
⾼盛进⼀步指出，随着⾏业在 2027 ⾄ 2028 年逐步将 HVLP3 产线转换为 HVLP4/5 ，每次产线切换
将带来 10% ⾄ 20% 的产能损耗，这将进⼀步加剧整体 HVLP3+ ⾏业的供应紧张态势。即便将
Mitsui Kinzoku 与第⼆供应商的有效产能合并计算，两者在未来三年内也仅能满⾜⾏业总需求的
50% ⾄ 60% 。
定价逻辑：商业模式从成本驱动转向价值驱动
⾼端铜箔市场的供需格局正在从根本上改变⾏业定价逻辑。⾼盛报告指出，低端铜箔（包括
HTE 和 RTF ）⻓期以来以铜成本加⼯费的模式定价，铜成本占⽣产成本逾 80% ，盈利能⼒⾼度依
赖加⼯费能否覆盖⾮铜成本，中国供应商在该细分市场占据主导地位，且⾃ 2021 年⾏业景⽓⾼
点后持续⾯临价格压⼒。
相⽐之下， HVLP3 及以上规格的⾼端铜箔已转向完全价值驱动的定价模式。由于具备量产能⼒
的供应商数量极为有限，加⼯费定价主要由供需动态决定，⽽⾮铜成本的简单加成。⾼盛预
计，⾃ 2026 年下半年起供应短缺将持续延伸⾄ 2027 ⾄ 2028 年，⾼端铜箔供应商的定价权将在中
期内得到有效⽀撑。
值得关注的是，铜箔加⼯费在 M9 级覆铜板物料清单中的占⽐仅为 14% ，低于 M6/M7/M8 级的
19% ⾄ 21% ，这意味着终端客⼾对最新⼀代覆铜板中铜箔加⼯费上涨的敏感度相对较低，进⼀
步为上游供应商的提价创造了有利条件。
⾼盛⾸予⾦居开发买⼊评级，⽬标价新台币 900 元
在上述⾏业背景下，⾼盛⾸次覆盖中国台湾省铜箔⼚商⾦居开发，给予买⼊评级， 12 个⽉⽬标
价为新台币 900 元，较当前股价 429 元隐含约 110% 的上⾏空间。
⾼盛认为，⾦居开发作为⽬前经客⼾认证的第⼆家 HVLP4 供应商，将是本轮⾼端铜箔需求扩张
的核⼼受益者。⾼盛预测，⾦居开发在 HVLP3+ 供应链中的市场份额将从 2025 年的 5% 提升⾄
2028 年的 53% ， HVLP3+ 产品对公司⽑利润的贡献占⽐将从 2025 年的 8% 跃升⾄ 2028 年的约
77% 。

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
以上精彩内容来⾃追⻛交易台。
更详细的解读，包括实时解读、⼀线研究等内容，请加⼊【追⻛交易台 ▪ 年度会员】

===== Page 119 =====

===== Page 120 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
297 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⼋闽望族之冠12 ⼩时前中国上海
0  回复
电⼒时代来临

===== Page 121 =====

国泰海通报告指出，市场对沃什推动货币宽松、压低美债利率的预期，严重⾼估了美联储
的政策能⼒边界。美国国内正⾯临通胀黏性、财政⾚字与 AI 泡沫的三重结构性枷锁；外部
则受全球供应链重构、主要贸易伙伴货币宽松外溢及美元储备地位下滑的持续侵蚀。⽆论
美联储如何操作，曲线⾛陡已成⼤概率路径。
摘要：
通胀压⼒重燃，推动全球债券收益率升⾄多年⾼点。美国 30 年期国债收益率触及 5.18% ，为
2007 年以来最⾼⽔平； 10 年期收益率亦上⾏⾄ 4.66% ，创 2025 年 1 ⽉以来新⾼。
市场曾预期，沃什接任美联储主席后将推动货币政策转向宽松，从⽽压低美债利率。然⽽，国
泰海通证券最新报告指出，这⼀预期严重⾼估了美联储的政策能⼒边界。
报告认为，美国当前⾯临三重结构性内部约束：通胀黏性、财政⾚字扩张与 AI 资本泡沫，美联
储操作空间远⽐市场预期的更为逼仄。与此同时，三重外部压⼒ —— 全球供应链重构、主要贸
易伙伴货币宽松的外溢效应，以及美元全球储备地位持续下滑 —— 进⼀步侵蚀了美债利率下⾏

的外部条件。
在此背景下，⽆论谁担任美联储主席，⻓端利率下⾏空间均极为有限，曲线⾛陡成为⼤概率路
径。
内部掣肘：通胀、财政与 AI 泡沫的三重枷锁
美国国内三重结构性约束已显著收窄美联储的政策空间。
通胀黏性持续升温。 2026 年 4 ⽉，美国整体 CPI 同⽐升⾄ 3.8% ，核⼼ CPI 环⽐录得 0.4% ，为年内
最⼤单⽉涨幅。亚特兰⼤联储追踪的黏性价格 CPI 年化环⽐达 4.6% ，核⼼⼝径更跳升⾄ 4.8% ，
显⽰通胀压⼒已深度渗透⾄租⾦、服务等慢变量。市场主流预测 5 ⽉ CPI 同⽐或将突破 4% ，通胀
再加速正成为基准情景。在此背景下，贸然降息既难获 FOMC 内部政治⽀持，亦将⾯临公信⼒挑
战。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 122 =====

财政⾚字扩张加剧⻓端压⼒。 2025 财年联邦⾚字已达 1.8 万亿美元，未来⼗年⼤规模税改与⽀出
计划将令⾚字额外扩张逾 3 万亿美元。财政部已⼤幅增加国债发⾏，下半年短端国库券供给或激
增逾 1 万亿美元，后续⻓久期票息债券供给压⼒将传导⾄⻓端收益率。供给持续放量⽽需求缺乏
边际增量，⻓端利率⾯临结构性抬升压⼒。即便美联储降息， 10 年期美债收益率也未必同步下
⾏，货币政策传导在财政压⼒⾯前已⼤打折扣。
AI 泡沫推升通胀与市场⻛险。 2025 年四⼤科技巨头 AI 资本开⽀约 4,100 亿美元，占美国 GDP 约
1.3% ， 2026 年预计升⾄ 1.6% 。 AI 叙事驱动的巨量资本⽀出推⾼能源、⼟地与⾼端制造价格。标
普 500 估值约为远期盈利的 23 倍，泡沫程度接近本世纪初互联⽹泡沫⽔平。实体投资热潮持续为
通胀提供燃料，⼀旦泡沫破裂，美联储将陷⼊稳市场与压通胀的两难困境。仅靠更换美联储主
席，难以实现利率曲线整体下移。
外部侵蚀：全球供应链重构下美国定价权式微
全球结构性⼒量亦从三个维度削弱美债⻓端利率的下⾏基础。

关税重塑供应链，抬⾼通胀中枢。将低成本供应来源排除出全球供应链，强制抬⾼了全球⽣产
成本中枢。美联储圣路易斯分⾏数据显⽰， 2025 年 6 ⽉⾄ 8 ⽉期间，关税贡献了美国年化 PCE 通
胀约 0.5 个百分点；以截⾄ 2025 年 8 ⽉的 12 个⽉⼝径计算，关税解释了整体 PCE 通胀的 10.9% 。
“ 关税即通胀 ” 的传导机制已获得充分数据验证。

===== Page 123 =====

汇率波动放⼤再通胀⻛险。主要制造国以货币宽松应对贸易摩擦，其汇率⾛弱向全球输出汇率
波动与商品价格压⼒。替代供应国产能建设周期更⻓、成本更⾼，短期内全球商品再通胀⻛险
反⽽被放⼤。国际货币基⾦组织指出，关税对美为供给冲击，对其他经济体则为需求冲击，通
胀格局进⼀步分化，全球央⾏政策协调难度显著上升。
美元储备地位松动，美债外部需求趋弱。美元在全球官⽅外汇储备中的占⽐已由本世纪初的约
71% 降⾄当前的约 56% ，触及近⼆⼗年低点。各国央⾏加速多元化配置，⻩⾦、欧元及新兴市
场货币的战略⽐重持续提升。境外央⾏边际买盘趋弱，⻓端美债的需求⽀撑⽇益稀薄。美联储
⾃⾝研究亦承认，若市场对美国偿债能⼒或货币管理能⼒的信⼼出现动摇，美元资产需求将⾯
临更深层次的侵蚀。
TACO 难改利率⼤⽅向，曲线⾛陡成⼤概率路径
所谓 “TACO” （ Trump Always Chickens Out ），描述的是特朗普宣布激进关税措施后市场暴跌，
随后⽩宫软化⽴场、⻛险资产反弹的规律性现象。 2025 年对欧关税延期后，标普 500 单⽇涨幅超

过 2% ，但 30 年期美债收益率同期重新逼近 5% 。债券市场传递的信息明确：关税退让解决不了
财政⾚字、通胀黏性与供给压⼒，这些才是⻓端定价的核⼼变量。
⽆论沃什领导下的美联储采取何种政策路径，曲线⾛陡均为⼤概率结果。
路径⼀：继续降息。短端利率随联邦基⾦利率下⾏，⻓端受制于财政供给与通胀溢价，⾛势明
显钝化，形成⽜陡格局。⾃ 2024 年 9 ⽉美联储开启降息周期以来， 10 年期美债收益率不降反升，
从 3.65% ⼀路攀升⾄ 2025 年 1 ⽉⾼点的 4.79% 。
路径⼆：加速宽松。若美联储迫于政治压⼒加快放松步伐，市场将对其独⽴性产⽣质疑，通胀
预期随之重新定价，⻓端利率的期限溢价势必进⼀步抬升。当前 10 年期期限溢价已升⾄ 2011 年
以来最⾼⽔平。
综合来看，单边押注 10 年期美债收益率⼤幅下⾏，在当前宏观框架下性价⽐极低。相较⽽⾔，
2s10s 或 5s30s 曲线⾛陡的交易逻辑更具优势 —— 既有短端降息预期的⽀撑，⼜获得⻓端供给压
⼒与通胀溢价的加持，⻛险收益⽐明显更优。特朗普的 TACO 特征可能带来阶段性做多窗⼝，但

这属于战术层⾯的博弈，⽽⾮战略⽅向的切换。

===== Page 124 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
82 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 125 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
103 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
泰国⼤⽶出⼝商协会数据显⽰，截⾄本周三泰国⽩⽶（ 5% 破碎率）价格环⽐上涨 4% ⾄每
吨 446 美元，创 2025 年 2 ⽉以来新⾼。供给趋紧预期源于两⽅⾯：⼀是霍尔⽊兹海峡受阻加
剧化肥短缺，化肥价格飙升推⾼种植成本；⼆是印度⾯临⼲旱⻛险，季⻛降⾬预计低于平
均⽔平。
摘要：
全球主要产区收成前景恶化引发市场担忧，亚洲基准⼤⽶价格升⾄逾⼀年⾼点。
据彭博 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇报道，泰国⼤⽶出⼝商协会数据显⽰，截⾄本周三，泰国⽩⽶（ 5% 破碎率）价
格环⽐上涨 4% ⾄每吨 446 美元，创下⾃ 2025 年 2 ⽉以来的新⾼。这是该⼤⽶价格连续第三周上
涨。上涨背后是市场对全球⼤⽶供给趋紧的预期，此前美国农业部预测 2026-27 年度全球⼤⽶产

量将出现 11 年来⾸次下降。
产量预期下滑并⾮空⽳来⻛。⼀⽅⾯，化肥与燃料价格飙升⼤幅推⾼了⽔稻种植成本，市场担
忧东南亚部分农⺠可能因此放弃当季种植。霍尔⽊兹海峡航运近乎瘫痪，关键化肥产品流通受
阻：位于卡塔尔的全球最⼤尿素⽣产设施已中断供货，硫磺和氨两种化肥核⼼原料的流通亦受
到严重压缩。
另⼀⽅⾯，全球最⼤⼤⽶出⼝国印度正⾯临⼲旱⻛险，季⻛降⾬预计将低于平均⽔平。该国⼤
⽶供应⾼度依赖年度⾬季，⽽即将到来的厄尔尼诺天⽓模式将进⼀步压制降⾬量。
尽管当前批发价格仍低于 2024 年的多年峰值，涨势却已对菲律宾等国造成明显冲击 ——4 ⽉该国
⼤⽶价格同⽐上涨 13.7% 。同时，芝加哥⼤⽶期货价格本周触及 8 ⽉以来最⾼⽔平，进⼀步印证
了市场对供应前景的担忧。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 126 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
印度正准备重启霍尔⽊兹海峡油轮航线，为中东冲突爆发以来⾸次。⽬前尚不清楚美伊是
否已向印度开放通⾏绿灯。为争取通道安全，印度已展开外交斡旋、加倍海军护航，并推
出⾼⻛险⽔域保险计划。
摘要：
⾯对持续紧张的能源供应形势，印度正准备重新派遣油轮穿越霍尔⽊兹海峡，成为⾃中东冲突
爆发以来该国⾸次尝试恢复这⼀关键航线的重⼤⾏动。
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，据彭博援引知情⼈⼠透露，相关计划已基本敲定，⼀旦印度政府给予最终批准，船只
将开始尝试穿越该海峡。印度航运公司（ Shipping Corp. of India ）已做好重返波斯湾的准备，
待获得印度海军批准并取得炼油商订单后即可出发。
霍尔⽊兹海峡承载全球约五分之⼀的⽯油流量。⾃ 2 ⽉底中东冲突爆发以来，该航线实际上已近
乎停摆，对印度等⾼度依赖中东能源的国家造成严重的供应冲击与价格压⼒。⽬前尚不清楚美

伊是否已向印度开放通⾏绿灯。
外交斡旋、军舰护航、保险兜底
印度正从外交与军事两端同步推进，以期恢复途经霍尔⽊兹海峡的能源供应。
据彭博，印度外交部⻓苏杰⽣（ Subrahmanyam Jaishankar ）上周在新德⾥⾦砖国家峰会期间
与伊朗外⻓阿拉格奇（ Abbas Araghchi ）举⾏了会晤，外界普遍将此视为印度争取通道许可的
外交努⼒之⼀。
在军事层⾯，印度海军已将该地区的军舰数量增加⼀倍，并加强了空中侦察⼒度。⽬前，印度
军舰正对悬挂印度国旗的船只及驶往印度的货轮实施护航，护送范围覆盖其安全驶出海峡后的
航段。
与此同时，印度政府近期还推出了⼀项海上保险计划，为在包括霍尔⽊兹海峡在内的⾼⻛险⽔
域运营的印度船只和货物提供持续保障，进⼀步为重启通道扫清商业障碍。
替代供应成本⾼企，中东依赖短期难以摆脱
印度之所以急于重启霍尔⽊兹航线，根本原因在于替代供应⽅案代价⾼昂且耗时漫⻓。据知情
⼈⼠透露，来⾃其他产地的原油运抵印度所需时间更⻓、成本更⾼，印度仍希望维持从传统中
东供应商的进⼝渠道。

冲突爆发后，印度虽加⼤了对其他产地原油的采购⼒度，但对中东的依赖程度依然较⾼。⾃ 2 ⽉
底战争爆发以来，确有少量⾮伊朗⽯油陆续通过霍尔⽊兹海峡流出，但允许通⾏的具体条件模
糊且不稳定，整体流量仅为冲突前⽔平的极⼩部分。
持续的能源供应中断已对印度经济造成显著冲击。在油价飙升与卢⽐汇率跌⾄历史低位的双重
压⼒下，印度总理莫迪已公开呼吁⺠众节约燃料与外汇。能源账单的急剧攀升正在侵蚀印度的
经济韧性。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 127 =====

89 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 128 =====

1—4 ⽉，全国⼀般公共预算收⼊ 83404 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 3.5% ，⽀出 94809 亿元，同⽐增⻓
1.3% 。税收收⼊中，个⼈所得税同⽐增⻓ 12.2% ，证券交易印花税同⽐⼤增 74.8% ；契
税、⼟地增值税分别下降 15.3% 和 15.6% 。
摘要：
⼀、全国⼀般公共预算收⽀情况
（⼀）⼀般公共预算收⼊情况。
1—4 ⽉，全国⼀般公共预算收⼊ 83404 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 3.5% 。其中，全国税收收⼊ 68097 亿
元，同⽐增⻓ 3.9% ；⾮税收⼊ 15307 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 1.6% 。分中央和地⽅看，中央⼀般公共预
算收⼊ 35474 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 4.6% ；地⽅⼀般公共预算本级收⼊ 47930 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 2.7% 。
主要税收收⼊项⽬情况如下：
1. 国内增值税 27806 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 5.9% 。
2. 国内消费税 6286 亿元，同⽐下降 3.3% 。
3. 企业所得税 17249 亿元，同⽐下降 0.5% 。
4. 个⼈所得税 6031 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 12.2% 。

5. 进⼝货物增值税、消费税 6375 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 11.2% 。关税 761 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 10.9% 。
6. 出⼝货物退增值税、消费税 9540 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 4.7% 。
7. 城市维护建设税 1954 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 3.3% 。
8. ⻋辆购置税 767 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 13.3% 。
9. 印花税 2063 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 27.8% 。其中，证券交易印花税 935 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 74.8% 。
10. 资源税 1099 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 7% 。
11. 契税 1370 亿元，同⽐下降 15.3% 。
12. 房产税 2185 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 7.8% 。
13. 城镇⼟地使⽤税 1049 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 3.7% 。
14. ⼟地增值税 1522 亿元，同⽐下降 15.6% 。
15. 耕地占⽤税 546 亿元，同⽐下降 0.6% 。
16. 环境保护税 134 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 11.9% 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 129 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
17. ⻋船税、船舶吨税、烟叶税等其他各项税收收⼊合计 440 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 1% 。
（⼆）⼀般公共预算⽀出情况。
1—4 ⽉，全国⼀般公共预算⽀出 94809 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 1.3% 。分中央和地⽅看，中央⼀般公共
预算本级⽀出 12910 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 5.1% ；地⽅⼀般公共预算⽀出 81899 亿元，同⽐增⻓
0.7% 。
主要⽀出科⽬情况如下：
1. 教育⽀出 14404 亿元，同⽐下降 0.5% 。
2. 科学技术⽀出 2901 亿元，同⽐下降 1.8% 。
3. ⽂化旅游体育与传媒⽀出 1056 亿元，同⽐下降 4.9% 。
4. 社会保障和就业⽀出 18079 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 7.3% 。
5. 卫⽣健康⽀出 8310 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 11.4% 。
6. 节能环保⽀出 1572 亿元，同⽐下降 6.8% 。

7. 城乡社区⽀出 6660 亿元，同⽐下降 1.2% 。
8. 农林⽔⽀出 5691 亿元，同⽐下降 10.2% 。
9. 交通运输⽀出 3676 亿元，同⽐下降 3.6% 。
10. 债务付息⽀出 4283 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 6.5% 。
⼆、全国政府性基⾦预算收⽀情况
（⼀）政府性基⾦预算收⼊情况。
1—4 ⽉，全国政府性基⾦预算收⼊ 10208 亿元，同⽐下降 18.9% 。分中央和地⽅看，中央政府性
基⾦预算收⼊ 1491 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 6.5% ；地⽅政府性基⾦预算本级收⼊ 8717 亿元，同⽐下降
22.1% ，其中，国有⼟地使⽤权出让收⼊ 6801 亿元，同⽐下降 27.2% 。
（⼆）政府性基⾦预算⽀出情况。
1—4 ⽉，全国政府性基⾦预算⽀出 25431 亿元，同⽐下降 2.7% 。分中央和地⽅看，中央政府性
基⾦预算本级⽀出 877 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 14% ；地⽅政府性基⾦预算⽀出 24554 亿元，同⽐下降
3.2% ，其中，国有⼟地使⽤权出让收⼊相关⽀出 11702 亿元，同⽐下降 14.3% 。

本⽂来源：财政部

===== Page 130 =====

78 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 131 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 132 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
业内分析指出，政策利率稳定、银⾏净息差承压是报价不变的主因。专家表⽰，预计央⾏
将更加注重精准发⼒，通过结构性⼯具更有⼒⽀持科技创新、提振消费、⼩微企业等重点
领域，并加强与财政政策协同发⼒。
摘要：
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，中国⼈⺠银⾏授权全国银⾏间同业拆借中⼼公布， 2026 年 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇贷款市场报价利率
（ LPR ）为： 1 年期 LPR 为 3.0% ， 5 年期以上 LPR 为 3.5% 。两个期限 LPR 均与上⽉持平。
业内专家认为， 5 ⽉两个期限品种的 LPR 报价与上⽉持平，符合预期。东⽅⾦诚⾸席宏观分析师
王⻘分析称，从定价基础看，上⽉ LPR 报价公布以来，政策利率（央⾏ 7 天期逆回购利率）未发
⽣变化，这意味着 5 ⽉ LPR 报价的定价基础保持稳定，已在很⼤程度上预⽰当⽉ LPR 报价会继续

保持不变。
在业内专家看来，当前报价⾏缺乏主动下调 LPR 报价加点的动⼒。招联⾸席经济学家董希淼表
⽰， 2026 年⼀季度末，商业银⾏净息差为 1.40% ，较去年四季度下降 2 个基点。在此背景下，即
使货币市场融资成本略有下⾏，报价⾏主动降低 LPR 报价加点的动⼒仍不⾜。维持 LPR 稳定，⼀
定程度上有助于缓解银⾏经营压⼒，保持其稳健发展能⼒和服务实体经济能⼒。
当前，贷款利率保持在低位⽔平。央⾏最新数据显⽰， 4 ⽉份企业新发放贷款（本外币）加权平
均利率约为 3.1% ，⽐上年同期低约 20 个基点。业内专家认为，贷款利率持续处于低位，说明信
贷资源供给总体充裕，实体经济的融资需求满⾜度⽐较⾼。
从宏观经济层⾯看，董希淼分析称，在内外部多重约束下，政策保持定⼒具有现实合理性。从
国内因素看，⼀季度 GDP 实际同⽐增⻓ 5.0% ，较去年四季度加快 0.5 个百分点，规模以上⼯业增
加值、进出⼝等表现较好，物价数据边际好转。宏观经济在地缘政治因素扰动下仍表现出较强
韧性，货币政策进⼀步宽松的紧迫性不⼤。从外部环境看，中东地缘冲突升级导致国际油价⼤

幅上涨，正在带来输⼊性通胀压⼒。同时，美联储连续按兵不动，降息进程放缓，外部利率环
境的制约使得 LPR 下降⾯临掣肘。
在展望下⼀阶段货币政策主要思路时，《 2026 年第⼀季度中国货币政策执⾏报告》指出，把促进
经济稳定增⻓、物价合理回升作为货币政策的重要考量，根据国内外经济⾦融形势和⾦融市场
运⾏情况，把握好货币政策实施的⼒度、节奏和时机，持续营造适宜的货币⾦融环境。密切关
注海外主要央⾏货币政策变化，持续加强对银⾏体系流动性供求和⾦融市场变化的分析监测，
灵活运⽤多种货币政策⼯具，保持流动性充裕。
“LPR 连续 12 个⽉未有变化，主要是为了⽀持银⾏体系保持稳健性，配合财政政策协同发⼒预留
空间。 ” 董希淼表⽰，货币政策仍将继续坚持适度宽松的基调，兼顾稳增⻓与防⻛险、内外部均衡
与⻓期可持续性。预计央⾏将更加注重精准发⼒，通过结构性⼯具更有⼒⽀持科技创新、提振
消费、⼩微企业等重点领域，并加强与财政政策协同发⼒。从更⻓视⻆看，这是对外部⻛险约
束、经济结构转型、⾦融稳定需求等多重⽬标的综合权衡。

本⽂来源：⾦融时报
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 133 =====

99 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 134 =====

中信建投认为，短期来看，⻩⾦⾛势的关键信号在于紧缩预期能否出现纠偏。⼀旦市场对
激进加息的担忧缓解，⻩⾦将逐步⾛出流动性冲击阴影，并重新对通胀因素进⾏定价。中
⻓期看，央⾏购⾦趋势不改、美国财政脆弱性制约紧缩空间、⽯油美元体系持续松动，三
⼤底层逻辑依旧完整，⻩⾦后续⾛势将更为平稳可持续。
摘要：
⻩⾦市场经历了⼀轮从狂热到出清的史诗级⾏情。 2025 年 9 ⽉⾄今年 2 ⽉，⾦价⼀路攀升并不断
刷新⾼点，涨势于 2 ⽉戛然⽽⽌，随即转为单边下跌。⽬前⾦价已跌破 4500 美元 / 盎司，较此前
逼近 5600 美元的历史⾼点下跌约 20% 。
中信建投认为，本轮暴跌并⾮⻩⾦⽜市终结，⽽是流动性过度定价的强制出清。去年 9 ⽉以来⾦
价暴涨的核⼼驱动⼒是流动性定价，⽽此次美伊冲突撬动了通胀预期，导致流动性定价逻辑退
坡，⻩⾦随之剧烈回调。
流动性过度定价退去之后，⻩⾦将回归⾃⼰的 “ 基本⾯ ” 。⽀撑⻩⾦的底层逻辑依然完整，此番下
跌洗去了多余的流动性溢价，反⽽使其后续⾛势更为平稳可持续。

中⻓期来看，三⼤底层逻辑均未破裂：央⾏购⾦趋势不改、美国财政脆弱性制约货币政策紧缩
空间、⽯油美元体系持续松动。⻩⾦中枢仍将持续受益于 “ 储备多元化 ” 的结构性趋势。
美伊冲突引爆流动性危机：这次地缘与⻩⾦的关系 " 反常 "
2026 年 3 ⽉⻩⾦暴跌的导⽕索，是美伊冲突急剧升级 —— 霍尔⽊兹海峡通⾏受阻，全球约 20% 的
⽯油供应遭遇直接威胁，布伦特原油⼀度飙升⾄每桶 120 美元。
常规逻辑下，⾼油价通过通胀预期⽀撑⾦价，地缘紧张更应推升避险需求。但这⼀次，市场以
截然不同的 " 滤镜 " 解读冲击：能源成本的骤然攀升，若迫使美联储采取更激进的紧缩⾏动，将直
接打断此前主导⾦价上涨的全球流动性宽松主线。跨资产联动性骤然⾛强，市场去杠杆浪潮⽆
差别席卷⻩⾦。
投资者为满⾜流动性需求、降低投资组合⻛险价值（ VaR ），在削减仓位的过程中对⻩⾦形成额
外抛压—— 这⼀机制解释了为何在地缘动荡时期，避险资产反⽽沦为 " 受害者 " 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 135 =====

流动性⿊洞下 " 避险 " 属性失效：⻩⾦从避⻛港变成了提款机
⻩⾦的避险属性并⾮恒定，其与股债的相关性存在显著的时变特征，核⼼变量是市场流动性压
⼒⽔平。
正常流动性状态：股⾦相关性接近零（约 0.1 ），⻩⾦提供独⽴的多元化配置价值；
流动性紧张初期：⻩⾦开始显现微弱的避险属性；
极端流动性压⼒下（ LSI 指数突破极值）：避险逻辑全⾯失效。股⾦相关性⼏乎归零
（ 0.0066 ），⻩⾦不再发挥对冲功能，反⽽被⼤型机构视为 " ⾼流动性套现资产 " ，优先抛售以
补⾜股市保证⾦缺⼝。
这⼀机制在历史上已有先例。 2008 年雷曼危机期间（ VIX 冲上 80 ），⻩⾦在 10 ⽉出现猛烈补跌，
股⾦相关性⼀度突破 0.6 ； 2020 年新冠疫情引发股债⾦ " 三杀 " ； 2026 年 1 ⽉的 " 沃什交易 " 也呈现类
似特征。
2026 年 3 ⽉的数据完全印证了这⼀判断：
美股 VIX 指数⼀度冲破 31 的恐慌线；
CBOE ⻩⾦波动率指数（ GVZ ）飙升⾄ 45 以上，接近 2008 年⾦融危机时的极端⽔平；

全球⻩⾦ ETF 单⽉流出 120 亿美元，创历史纪录，致使⼀季度整体净流⼊减半⾄ 120 亿美元；
商品交易顾问（ CTA ）在⾦价 3 ⽉ 16 ⽇⾸次跌破 50/55 ⽇移动平均线后迅速平仓，进⼀步放⼤
了下跌动能。
当流动性压⼒触及极端阈值，⻩⾦的 " 避险资产 " 属性会暂时让位于 " 流动性⼯具 " 属性，机构为满
⾜保证⾦需求⽽进⾏的⽆差别抛售，是理解本轮⻩⾦暴跌的关键钥匙。
⼟⽿其央⾏减⾦：流动性应急操作，不具战略信号意义
3 ⽉，⼟⽿其央⾏连续三周减持⻩⾦储备，总计约 120 吨（其中官⽅储备减持 100 吨，商业政策银
⾏相关⻩⾦减持 20 吨），引发市场对全球央⾏是否正在战略性退出⻩⾦的担忧。
然⽽，这⼀解读存在根本性偏差。截⾄ 2025 年四季度，⼟⽿其⻩⾦储备占官⽅总储备的⽐例⾼
达 55% ，远⾼于中国、印度、巴西等⼤多数新兴市场通常不⾜ 10% 的⽔平。对⼟⽿其⽽⾔，⻩

===== Page 136 =====

⾦并⾮⻓期战略配置资产，⽽是应对⾥拉贬值与国内极⾼通胀的流动性管理⼯具。
本次减持规模与 2023 年 3 ⾄ 5 ⽉⼟⽿其为稳定汇率所进⾏的操作体量相当，属于极端国内宏观约
束下的应急管理，与 2022 年以来全球央⾏战略性增持⻩⾦的底层逻辑并不冲突。
另⼀组佐证来⾃美联储数据。⾃ 2026 年 2 ⽉ 28 ⽇伊朗战争爆发以来，外国央⾏已抛售存放在纽约
联储、价值 820 亿美元的美国国债，将其托管持仓量推⾄ 2012 年以来最低⽔平。连续五周的抛
售，标志着⾃ 2008 年⾦融危机以来全球官⽅对美国政府债务最持续的⼀次 “ 撤退 ” 。
这进⼀步表明，央⾏的操作主要受流动性压⼒驱动，⽽⾮重新审视⻩⾦的配置价值。
央⾏购⾦韧性不减：全球秩序重构提供持续⽀撑
尽管 3 ⽉市场经历了剧烈动荡，全球央⾏购⾦的⻓期趋势并未逆转。2025 年，全球央⾏⻩⾦净需
求达 863 吨，连续第 16 年保持净买⼊。 2026 年前两个⽉，全球央⾏累计净购⻩⾦ 31 吨，购⾦经
济体持续扩容。
从具体数据看，增持趋势⼴泛⽽多元：

波兰央⾏： 2 ⽉单⽉购⼊ 20 吨，居全球⾸位，官⽅⻩⾦储备达 570 吨，占外汇储备的 31% ；
乌兹别克斯坦央⾏：连续第五个⽉净购⼊（ 2 ⽉增 8 吨），⻩⾦储备占外汇储备总额⾼达 88% ；
哈萨克斯坦央⾏： 2 ⽉增持 8 吨，⻩⾦储备升⾄ 348 吨，创 2023 年 1 ⽉以来新⾼；
⻢来西亚国家银⾏：⾃ 2018 年以来⾸次恢复净购⾦；
中国⼈⺠银⾏：官⽅⻩⾦储备已达 2,308 吨，占外汇储备的 10% ；
⾮洲央⾏：乌⼲达与肯尼亚央⾏相继释放增持信号，显⽰以⻩⾦实现储备多元化的趋势正向
更⼴泛的经济体蔓延。
这⼀趋势背后的底层逻辑清晰且稳固：2022 年以来，越来越多央⾏通过⾮ LBMA 渠道购⾦，并
倾向于将⻩⾦存储于本国境内。

===== Page 137 =====

美国财政脆弱性封死激进紧缩空间，⽯油美元体系动摇
⻩⾦⽜市的另⼀根基 —— 美联储政策空间受限 —— 不仅未被动摇，反⽽持续强化。
财政层⾯， 2025 财年美国债务利息成本达 9700 亿美元，⾸次超过国防⽀出。⾼利率驱动的 “ 债务
螺旋 ” （⾼利息 → 更多举债 → 更⾼利息），使财政对实质性货币紧缩的容忍度降⾄极低⽔平。
机制层⾯，中东近 80% 的原油已销往亚洲，美国作为⽯油主要买家的地位不再， “ 安全换美元 ” 的
协议根基被动摇，⽯油美元回流机制正⾯临结构性⽡解。
财政脆弱性与⽯油美元松动，构成限制美联储紧缩⼒度的结构性约束。今⽇美联储的政策空
间，与沃尔克时代已⽆从类⽐。
流动性出清后，⻩⾦回归 " 基本⾯ " 驱动
此轮流动性冲击并未动摇⻩⾦的根基，反⽽为后续更为平稳的上涨夯实了基础。
短期来看，⻩⾦⾛势的关键信号在于紧缩预期能否出现纠偏。⼀旦市场对激进加息的担忧缓
解，⻩⾦将逐步⾛出流动性冲击阴影，并重新对通胀因素进⾏定价。

===== Page 138 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
203 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
中⻓期⽽⾔，全球秩序重构、去美元化与央⾏战略性购⾦三⼤底层逻辑均未破裂。此次美伊冲
突既是旧秩序撕裂的产物，也可能成为新秩序加速成型的催化剂，⻩⾦作为储备资产的共识有
望进⼀步凝聚。在全球⾦融结算体系加速分化、替代性⽀付系统持续崛起的背景下，⾦价中枢
将持续受益于货币体系从 “ 美元单极 ” 向 “ 储备多元 ” 转型的⻓周期信⽤重构进程。
值得关注的是，经历此轮流动性过度定价的强制出清后，⻩⾦后续的上涨路径或将更为平缓与
扎实，⽽⾮ 2025 年那般狂热。对于以⻓期配置视⻆参与⻩⾦市场的投资者⽽⾔，这反⽽提供了
更为健康的介⼊环境。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 139 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
96 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
Bald Hill 和 Sigma 锂业的复产虽是短期供给增量，但这并不意味着全球锂市场将重返
过剩，⽽是进 ...
摘要：
Bald Hill 和 Sigma 锂业的复产虽是短期供给增量，但这并不意味着全球锂市场将重返过
剩，⽽是进⼀步强化了未来 24-36 个⽉ “ 供需错配周期 ” 的紧平衡基调。
瑞银最新模型将 2026 年全球锂需求上修⾄ 197.4 万吨 LCE ， 2027 年进⼀步增⾄ 232.4 万
吨；东吴证券中性预测下 2026 年碳酸锂过剩仅 4 万吨（过剩⽐例 2% ）， 2027 年过剩 11 万吨
（ 4% ）， 2028 年才开始扩⼤。即便 2026-2027 年新增约 100 万吨 LCE 供应（⾼盛⼝径），但
与需求增量⼏乎同时释放，供需格局的⾼度敏感性和低库存环境意味着价格的向下弹性远

⼩于向上弹性。
⽴即解锁全⽂
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 140 =====

划对煤炭和镍征收出⼝税及暴利税。此举被市场迅速解读为印尼政府开始通过⾏政⼿段强
化对关键资源、外汇与资本流动的直接管制。在资源⺠族主义升级预期下，印尼⾦融市场
⼤幅动荡，外资迅速流出，雅加达综合指数单⽇⼤跌 3.5% 。⽽今年以来，受政策不确定
性、MSCI 剔除权重股以及中东地缘冲突影响，印尼基准股指已跌去 26% ，成为全球表现
最差股指。
⽽在外汇市场，印尼盾兑美元汇率跌⾄历史新低，成为亚洲表现最差货币之⼀。应对资本
外流和贬值压⼒，印尼央⾏不仅频频动⽤外汇储备⼲预市场，导致 4 ⽉份外汇储备降⾄
1462 亿美元的近两年最低点，还进⼀步收紧外汇管制，将⽆需凭证即可进⾏现钞购汇的限
额从 5 万美元腰斩⾄ 2.5 万美元。
印尼作为全球最⼤的棕榈油、动⼒煤及镍矿出⼝国，⽯油与 LNG ⾼度依赖进⼝，⽽其镍冶
炼（⾼压酸浸， HPAL ）所需的核⼼原料硫磺，同样严重依赖中东供应。中东冲突使国际
油价⾼位运⾏，⽽印尼⻓期实⾏⾼额燃油补贴，油价上涨直接导致财政⽀出快速恶化，财
政⾚字压⼒显著上升。财政⾚字扩张预期以及外汇储备下降，加剧了印尼信⽤评级被下调

的⻛险，惠誉评级和穆迪评级均维持负⾯展望。
此外，印尼新能源产业链同样依赖中东。该国 75% 硫磺需经霍尔⽊兹海峡，持续封锁导致
硫磺价格飙升，叠加近期中国阶段性收紧硫酸出⼝，使印尼镍加⼯⼚⾯临严重的原料断供
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 141 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
88 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
⻛险。硫酸是 HPAL ⼯艺⽣产电池级镍中间品的重要化学原料，硫磺供应中断已迫使诸如
华友钴业等企业的 HPAL ⼯⼚减产 50% 。加上印尼 2 ⽉份宣布⼤幅削减镍矿开采配额，全球
镍供应预期持续收紧。
在国内财政压⼒、外汇流失与上游原料断供的多重压⼒下，印尼作为全球核⼼的资源输出
国，开始加速转向资源⺠族主义，试图从传统的资源出⼝国转变为资源控制国。
⽴即解锁全⽂
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 142 =====

习近平指出，在我和普京总统的共同战略引领下，中俄关系已经迈上新起点。双⽅要顺应
和平、发展、合作、共赢的时代潮流，推动中俄关系实现更⾼质量发展。⼀是筑牢更⾼质
量政治互信，坚定彼此战略⽀持。⼆是赋能更⾼质量互利合作，携⼿推进各⾃发展振兴。
三是推进更⾼质量⺠⼼相通，厚植两国世代友好根基。四是开展更⾼质量国际协作，改⾰
完善全球治理。
摘要：
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇下午，国家主席习近平在北京⼈⺠⼤会堂同俄罗斯总统普京会谈后共同会⻅记者。
习近平指出，这是普京总统第⼆⼗五次访问中国，充分体现出中俄关系的⾼⽔平和特殊性。刚
才，我同普京总统举⾏深⼊友好、富有成果的会谈，就⼀系列重⼤问题进⾏了战略沟通。我们
共同签署两国关于进⼀步加强全⾯战略协作、深化睦邻友好合作的联合声明，⻅证达成多份重
要双边合作⽂件。两国还将发表关于倡导世界多极化和新型国际关系的联合声明。
习近平强调，今年是中俄战略协作伙伴关系建⽴ 30 周年。 30 年来，中俄关系栉⻛沐⾬、与时俱
进，关系定位不断提升，达到新时代全⾯战略协作伙伴关系的历史最⾼⽔平，树⽴起新型⼤国

关系的典范。今年也是《中俄睦邻友好合作条约》签署 25 周年。多年来，两国始终恪守这⼀条
约确⽴的 “ 不结盟、不对抗、不针对第三⽅ ” 原则，坚持平等相待、相互尊重、重信守义、合作共
赢，为维护国际公平公道、推动构建新型国际关系作出重要贡献，成为世界百年变局中的关键
恒量。
习近平指出，在我和普京总统的共同战略引领下，中俄关系已经迈上新起点。双⽅要顺应和
平、发展、合作、共赢的时代潮流，推动中俄关系实现更⾼质量发展。
⼀是筑牢更⾼质量政治互信，坚定彼此战略⽀持。政治互信是中俄关系最鲜明的特征，也是
《中俄睦邻友好合作条约》的宗旨和根本原则。我和普京总统已经共同决定将这⼀条约继续延
期。双⽅要继往开来，在涉及彼此核⼼利益和重⼤关切问题上进⼀步相互坚定⽀持，持续密切
战略沟通和各层级交往，不断夯实两国政治互信基础。
⼆是赋能更⾼质量互利合作，携⼿推进各⾃发展振兴。近年来，中俄两国各领域合作阔步前
进，取得许多积极成果。双边贸易额已经连续 3 年突破 2000 亿美元，今年前 4 个⽉双边贸易额增

⻓近 20% 。双⽅要乘势⽽上，深化中国 “ ⼗五五 ” 规划同俄罗斯 2030 年前发展战略对接，推动各领
域互利合作提质升级，服务两国各⾃发展振兴。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 143 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
260 收藏 分享到 :
三是推进更⾼质量⺠⼼相通，厚植两国世代友好根基。随着中俄关系⾼⽔平发展，两国⼈⽂交
往不断密切，⺠⼼纽带越拉越紧。我和普京总统决定今明两年举办两国第⼗个国家级主题年
——“ 中俄教育年 ” 。双⽅要以 “ 教育年 ” 为契机，持续扩⼤双向留学规模，深化⾼校及科研平台交
流合作，在优秀⼈才培养、联合科研攻关等⽅⾯取得更多可视化成果，为中俄关系不断发展创
造更有利条件。
四是开展更⾼质量国际协作，改⾰完善全球治理。当今世界很不太平，单边主义、霸权主义危
害深重，世界⾯临倒退回丛林法则的危险。作为联合国安理会常任理事国，中俄两国要坚定履
⾏负责任⼤国使命担当，捍卫联合国权威和国际公平正义，反对⼀切单边霸凌和开历史倒⻋的
⾏径，尤其要反对⼀切否定⼆战胜利成果、为法西斯和军国主义 “ 翻案招魂 ” 的挑衅⾏径，共同推

动构建更加公正合理的全球治理体系。
普京表⽰，此访正值《俄中睦邻友好合作条约》签署 25 周年的重要时刻，这⼀条约奠定了两国
关系全⾯发展的基础。当前俄中关系处于前所未有的⾼⽔平，两国始终秉持相互尊重、平等互
助、相互⽀持的精神，推动双边合作持续深⼊发展。俄中关系发展有着强⼤内⽣动⼒，两国合
作不针对第三⽅，也不受地缘政治变化的影响。我同习近平主席在热情友好的⽓氛中就两国关
系中的⼴泛重要议题进⾏了深⼊交流，明确了未来合作⽅向。俄⽅对两国关系的未来充满信
⼼，将同中⽅携⼿深化伙伴关系和睦邻友好，加强⺠⼼相通，助⼒各⾃发展振兴和⼈⺠福祉。
俄中将在国际舞台上保持紧密战略协作，共同维护联合国宪章宗旨原则，共同维护全球安全稳
定。
蔡奇、丁薛祥、王毅、何⽴峰、张国清、谌贻琴等参加。
来源：央视新闻
限免

===== Page 144 =====

SpaceX 本周或发招股书，若以 1.75 万亿美元估值 IPO ，将全⾯刷新 VC ⾏业历史回报纪
录。早期重仓持股的 Valor Equity 与 Founders Fund ，将分别斩获近 650 亿和超 600 亿美元
的巨额账⾯收益；红杉资本及对冲基⾦ Darsana 等也浮盈丰厚。
摘要：
SpaceX 即将推进的 IPO ，或将缔造⻛险投资⾏业前所未有的历史性回报纪录。
SpaceX 预计最快本周三正式发布 IPO 招股说明书，为 6 ⽉中旬前完成上市启动倒计时，最终定价
届时⽅能确认。多名银⾏家预期，此次 IPO 估值将达约 1.75 万亿美元。
按上述估值，Valor Equity Partners 持有的约 4% 股份将带来接近 650 亿美元的账⾯收益； Peter
Thiel 旗下的 Founders Fund 尽管此前已部分减持，仍将凭借约 3.5% 的持仓获得逾 600 亿美元的
回报。两家机构合计账⾯收益超过 1200 亿美元，将全⾯刷新 VC ⾏业的历史回报标杆。

值得注意的是，上述收益均为账⾯数字，最终实际获益将在很⼤程度上取决于锁定期安排，相
关基⾦可能需等待数⽉⽅可套现。若上市⾸⽇出现典型的 20% ⾄ 30% 的涨幅，上述数字还将进
⼀步攀升。
两次关键押注：早期共赴危机，此后持续重仓
Founders Fund 与 SpaceX 的渊源，始于 2008 年的⽣死关头。
彼时 SpaceX 连续经历两次⽕箭发射失败，急需紧急输⾎，Founders Fund 联合创始⼈ Luke
Nosek 说服 Peter Thiel 向 SpaceX 注⼊ 2000 万美元 —— 这在当时是该基⾦有史以来最⼤规模的
单笔投资之⼀。此后， Founders Fund 持续参与 SpaceX 多轮融资，累计投⼊超过 6 亿美元。尽管
中途已出售部分股权，当前约 3.5% 的持仓仍带来了逾 600 亿美元的账⾯收益。
Valor Equity Partners 的联合创始⼈ Antonio Gracias 本⼈即在 SpaceX 董事会任职，是⻢斯克
多家企业的⻓期⽀持者。Valor 早年便介⼊ SpaceX ，此后旗下多只基⾦相继追加投资，并将配置

延伸⾄ xAI 和 X ，三项投资合计近 60 亿美元，⽬前持有 SpaceX 约 4% 的股份，所有股份均未出
售，账⾯收益接近 650 亿美元。此外， Valor 还曾计划筹设⼀⽀规模达 200 亿美元的特殊⽬的载
体，专⻔购置英伟达芯⽚并租赁给 xAI 。
红杉资本及其他机构：⼊场虽晚，回报同样可观
红杉资本（ Sequoia Capital ）⼊场相对较晚。
据媒体援引知情⼈⼠透露，合伙⼈ Shaun Maguire 于 2020 年主导了红杉对 SpaceX 的初始投资，
彼时 SpaceX 估值已达 360 亿美元。同年， SpaceX 完成重⼤技术⾥程碑，将两名美国宇航局宇航
员送上国际空间站。此后红杉还参与了⻢斯克收购 X 的融资，并在 xAI 于 2024 年通过多轮融资合
计筹集 120 亿美元时跟进投资，三项投资合计约 20 亿美元，持有 SpaceX 约 1.5% 的股份，且全部
持仓从未出售。按 1.75 万亿美元估值，红杉预期回报超过 200 亿美元。
据报道，⻛投机构 137 Ventures 同样持有 SpaceX 逾 1% 的股份，该投资由创始⼈ Justin Fishner-

Wolfson 主导，其此前曾就职于 Founders Fund ，亦参与了该基⾦早期对 SpaceX 的投资。其他
主要股东还包括 DFJ 和 Vy Capital ，具体持股⽐例⽬前尚不得⽽知。
⾸⻚资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 145 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
152 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
对冲基⾦同样坐拥巨额浮盈
顶级⻛投之外，部分对冲基⾦同样是此次 IPO 的重要受益⽅。
据华尔街⻅闻此前⽂章，纽约对冲基⾦ Darsana Capital Partners 持有约 85 亿美元的 SpaceX 仓
位，占其约 150 亿美元管理规模的近 60% ，远超其截⾄今年 3 ⽉末约 47 亿美元的公开市场投资组
合规模。
Darsana 由 Anand Desai 于 2014 年创⽴，公开持仓涵盖 Dick's Sporting Goods 、 Wingstop 等消
费品牌，与科技领域并⽆明显关联。 2019 年，合伙⼈ Dan Irom 在研究上市卫星公司的过程中与
SpaceX 建⽴接触，随即以约 300 亿美元估值⾸次⼊股，此后多次追加投资且从未出售任何股

份。
若 IPO 以约 1.5 万亿美元或更⾼估值落地， Darsana 的总账⾯盈利将超过 100 亿美元，其中部分收
益是⾃去年 12 ⽉ SpaceX 以约 8000 亿美元估值完成融资以来新增的。耶鲁⼤学与宾⼣法尼亚⼤学
的捐赠基⾦，以及摩根⼠丹利财富管理客⼾（获配约 1 亿美元的专项投资⼯具份额），均是
Darsana 的投资⽅。
由 Daniel Sundheim 创⽴的 D1 Capital Partners 累计投⼊约 6 亿美元，以去年底 SpaceX 融资估值
为基准，当前账⾯盈利约为 90 亿美元，若 IPO 顺利推进，实际回报有望进⼀步显著提升。
改写 VC 历史，终结 IPO 荒
此次 SpaceX IPO 有望全⾯刷新 VC ⾏业的历史回报标杆。
此前的参照包括：软银以 2000 万美元投⼊阿⾥巴巴，在 2014 年 IPO 时账⾯盈利超 550 亿美元；
Accel 在 2012 年 Facebook 上市时斩获约 100 亿美元回报； Sutter Hill Ventures 在 Snowflake IPO

时获得逾 60 亿美元收益。 Valor 和 Founders Fund 的单笔收益均将全⾯超越上述所有纪录。
这场预期中的资本盛宴，有望终结近年来 IPO 市场低迷导致的现⾦分配荒，令整个 VC ⾏业的回
报分布出现重⼤偏斜 ——过去 24 年间投资 SpaceX 的各只基⾦，⼤概率将⼤幅跑赢同期同类基
⾦。
这也将进⼀步强化近期 SpaceX 在与⼤型投资者沟通中逐渐形成的⼀个论点：尽管⾯临持续⾼估
值压⼒和多年现⾦消耗，⻢斯克旗下企业的投资价值已通过实际回报得到验证。需要关注的
是， SpaceX 去年已实现盈利，但今年 2 ⽉收购持续亏损的 xAI 后，合并主体去年在约 185 亿美元
营收下合计亏损约 50 亿美元，基本⾯的复杂性仍值得投资者审视。
请发表您的评论

===== Page 146 =====

图⽚
表情 发布评论

===== Page 147 =====

美伊局势持续升温。伊朗周三警告称，若再遭袭击，战⽕将溢出中东地区，反击将出现在
美以 “ 意想不到的地⽅ ” 。周⼆，美军加油机被⽬击停放在以⾊列本 - 古⾥安国际机场。报道
称，以⾊列⾼层评估认为，特朗普仍倾向于对伊朗重启军事⾏动。
摘要：
美伊局势持续升温。伊朗周三发出严厉警告，称若伊朗再遭袭击，战⽕将蔓延⾄中东以外地
区；周⼆，美军加油机现⾝以⾊列机场，外界对美以联合军事⾏动的担忧骤然加剧。
据 CCTV 国际时讯，伊朗伊斯兰⾰命卫队今天（ 5 ⽉ 20 ⽇）发布声明警告称，如果伊朗再次遭
袭，战⽕将溢出中东地区。    ⾰命卫队强调，如果针对伊朗的侵犯再次发⽣，伊朗将予以毁灭性
打击，反击将出现在美以意想不到的地⽅。当地时间 5 ⽉ 19 ⽇，美军加油机被⽬击到停放在以⾊
列特拉维夫附近的本 - 古⾥安国际机场跑道上。
据新华社，美东时间 19 ⽇周⼆，特朗普在⽩宫对媒体表⽰，美国或将再次对伊朗发起 “ 沉重打
击 ” 。据 CCTV 国际时讯援引以⾊列公共⼴播公司报道，以⾊列和美国对伊朗重启军事⾏动的联

合准备⼯作已完成，⽬前正在等待特朗普的决定。
上述动态令市场对中东局势升级的⻛险⾼度警惕。
美军动作频频，特朗普留出 “ 有限时间 ” 谈判
美军动作频频，包括加油机现⾝以⾊列机场等明确军事部署。据 CCTV 国际时讯援引以⾊列第 13
频道电视台当地时间 5 ⽉ 19 ⽇晚报道称，以⾊列⾼层评估认为，特朗普仍倾向于对伊朗重启军事
⾏动。
美东时间 19 ⽇周⼆，据新华社，特朗普在⽩宫对媒体表⽰，美国或将再次对伊朗发起 “ 沉重打
击 ” 。他说，美国已迫使伊朗坐上谈判桌，伊⽅想要达成协议， “ 我希望我们不必再采取进⼀步⾏
动，但我们也可能不得不再给他们⼀次沉重打击 …… ⽬前我还不确定，你们很快就会知道 ” 。
本周⼀特朗普在社交媒体发帖宣布，应海湾三国请求，推迟原定周⼆对伊朗的军事打击。据新
华社，周⼆特朗普解释这⼀决定说，多个海湾国家告知，在巴基斯坦斡旋下旨在达成和平协议
的谈判正在取得进展。他将留出⾄少两到三天的 “ 有限时间 ” ，让对话能够继续进⾏。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 148 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
291 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
伊⽅表态趋硬，措辞明显升级
⾯对特朗普的持续施压，伊朗⽅⾯作出强硬表态，措辞较此前明显升级。据 CCTV 国际时讯， 20
⽇，伊朗伊斯兰⾰命卫队声明称，伊朗军队将在真实的战场上展现实⼒，绝不会仅仅停留在空
洞的声明与⽹络宣泄中。
此前⼀⽇，伊朗副外⻓加⾥巴巴迪已作出强硬回应。据新华社，伊朗副外⻓加⾥巴巴迪 19 ⽇周
⼆在社交媒体上发⽂表⽰，伊朗举国上下团结⼀致，将坚决应对任何形式的军事侵略。美国声
称暂时停⽌对伊朗袭击、以便为谈判提供机会的同时，不断威胁 “ 随时准备发动⼤规模攻击 ” 。
据央视新闻，加⾥巴巴迪在个⼈社交媒体上表⽰，美国宣称其 “ 暂时 ” 停⽌了 “ 对伊朗的攻击，以
给谈判⼀个机会 ” ；但与此同时，美国⼜声称随时准备发动⼤规模袭击。加⾥巴巴迪称，这就意

味着美国将 “ 威胁 ” 冠以 “ 和平契机 ” 之名。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 149 =====

盘⾯上，个股跌多涨少，沪深京三市超 3700 股飘绿，今⽇成交 2.98 万亿。沪深两市成交额
2.95 万亿，较上⼀个交易⽇放量近 700 亿。板块⽅⾯，半导体、光刻机、存储芯⽚、氟化⼯
等板块涨幅居前，电⼒、 AI 应⽤、煤炭、脑机接⼝等板块跌幅居前。
摘要：
今天， A 股和港股的芯⽚半导体⼤爆发，中芯国际、华虹公司飙升，推动以科技股为主的科创 50
指数暴涨超 3% ，创下历史新⾼。
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇， A 股全天震荡分化，三⼤指数涨跌互现，创业板指低开之后冲⾼回落，⼀度涨 1% ，午
后维持震荡上涨⾛势，科创 50 涨超 3% 创新⾼，创下历史新⾼。芯⽚半导体继续爆发，半导体设
备、先进封装、⻓鑫存储概念股等集体⼤涨。电⼒、电信等板块全线调整。
港股亦分化，恒指全天维持跌势，恒科指低开之后震荡⾛⾼，午后维持震荡上涨势头，科⽹股
分化，哔哩哔哩跌超 4% ，芯⽚半导体爆发，华虹半导体狂涨近 14% 。债市⽅⾯，国债期货全线
上涨。商品⽅⾯，国内商品期货涨跌互现，集运指数⼤幅拉升超 8% 。

A 股：截⾄发稿，沪指跌 0.18% ，深成指持平，创业板指涨 0.34% 。
盘⾯上，个股跌多涨少，沪深京三市超 3700 股飘绿，今⽇成交 2.98 万亿。沪深两市成交额 2.95
万亿，较上⼀个交易⽇放量近 700 亿。板块⽅⾯，半导体、光刻机、存储芯⽚、氟化⼯等板块涨
幅居前，电⼒、 AI 应⽤、煤炭、脑机接⼝等板块跌幅居前。
港股：截⾄发稿，恒⽣指数收跌 0.57% ，恒⽣科技指数涨 0.34% 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 150 =====

盘⾯上，芯⽚股⼤涨，华虹半导体涨近 14% ，中芯国际涨近 10% 。哔哩哔哩跌近 5% ，⽐亚迪股
份跌近 4% 。新消费板块多数下跌，⽼铺⻩⾦跌近 7% 。
债市：国债期货全线⾛⾼，截⾄收盘， 30 年期主⼒合约涨 0.01% ， 10 年期主⼒合约涨 0.01% ， 5
年期主⼒合约涨 0.03% ， 2 年期主⼒合约涨 0.02% 。
商品：国内商品期货分化，截⾄收盘，航运期货涨幅居前，集运指数 ( 欧线 ) 涨 8.19% ；油脂油料
多数上涨，菜油涨 2.30% ；基本⾦属多数上涨，沪锡涨 2.05% ；⿊⾊系多数上涨，不锈钢涨
1.57% ；化⼯品多数上涨，沥⻘涨 1.55% ；新能源材料多数上涨，多晶硅涨 1.38% ；贵⾦属跌幅
居前，铂⾦跌 2.07% ；⾮⾦属建材全部下跌， PVC 跌 2.00% ；能源品多数下跌，低硫燃料油跌
0.83% 。

===== Page 151 =====

芯⽚半导体⼤爆发
半导体股持续爆发，华虹公司涨超 18% 并创历史新⾼，中芯国际涨超 12% ，市值超万亿元，港
股中芯国际也⼀度涨超 10% 。

===== Page 152 =====

拓荆科技涨超 14% ，盛剑科技、⾦海通、上海合晶、晶⽅科技、⼤胜达、张江⾼科等涨停，诚
邦股份 3 连板，寒武纪也创历史新⾼。

===== Page 153 =====

消息⾯，据证监会官⽹，⻓江存储控股股份有限公司发布⾸次公开发⾏股票并上市辅导备案报
告。⻓江存储的 IPO 进程备受市场瞩⽬，其全资⼦公司⻓江存储科技在胡润研究院《 2025 全球
独⻆兽榜》中，以 1600 亿元估值⾸次⼊围，位列中国⼗⼤独⻆兽第 9 、全球第 21 ，成为半导体⾏
业估值最⾼的新晋独⻆兽。
⼏天前，另⼀存储巨头 —— ⻓鑫科技也有关于上市的新进展。据 5 ⽉ 17 ⽇⻓鑫科技招股书，受益
于算⼒需求持续增⻓、 DRAM 产品涨价， 2026 年上半年预计⻓鑫科技实现归⺟净利 500 亿元
~570 亿元。
据 21 世纪经济报道，产业链⼈⼠透露，⾃ 2025 年四季度起，⻓鑫存储与⻓江存储已出现 “ 抢货 ”
现象，⽬前仍在持续。产业链⼈⼠认为，这个变化与本轮存储芯⽚价格上⾏节奏基本同步。
据21 世纪经济报道，国产存储双雄⻓鑫科技业绩爆表，⻓江存储 IPO 加速，成为半导体板块⾛强
的重要催化因素。两家公司冲刺上市，将为 A 股注⼊真正的存储⻰头标的。
市场预计，⻓江存储上市后，市值⾄少将达到 5000 亿元⾄ 8000 亿元，甚⾄突破万亿元；⻓鑫科

技市值⾄少达 3 万亿元，甚⾄有部分机构⼈⼠给出 4 万亿元以上的估值。
⻓江证券认为，⽬前到 2027 年，全球晶圆⼚设备⽀出将持续增⻓。国内⻰头在刻蚀、薄膜沉
积、清洗等关键设备领域市占率稳步提升，且研发投⼊持续加码，产品矩阵不断完善，在国产
化替代趋势下⻓期成⻓性明确。
万联证券认为，国内外存储⻰头均实现了较⾼的业绩增⻓，且对未来需求仍有较为强劲的指
引，较⾼的资本⽀出有望为产业链带来投资机遇。 AI 算⼒建设⽅兴未艾，算⼒产业链中⾼景⽓细

===== Page 154 =====

分赛道如 PCB 、存储等需求旺盛，均处于景⽓扩张周期，亦有望拉动上游设备及材料需求。
值得注意的是， CPO 、光纤概念股则继续受益于 AI 浪潮保持活跃，光模块测试⻰头联讯仪器⼤
涨超 10% ，股价突破 1500 元，此前已登顶 A 股股王。
电⼒、电信集体调整
经历连续上涨的电⼒板块迎来调整，⼤唐发电、京能电⼒、华电辽能、浙能电⼒等跌停。
值得注意的是，⼤唐发电此前 10 个交易⽇累计涨幅已翻倍。公司 19 ⽇晚间发布公告提⽰，公司
股价短期上涨幅度较⼤，已严重偏离同期上证指数和公司所属⾏业指数，已积累巨⼤交易⻛

===== Page 155 =====

险，股价未来随时有下跌的可能。
中⾦公司指出，算电协同已成为 AI 发展与能源转型下的重要产业趋势。国家政策持续加码，《关
于促进⼈⼯智能与能源双向赋能的⾏动⽅案》等⽂件明确⽀持绿电直连、智能调度与储能系统
建设，以实现算⼒负荷与电⼒曲线⾼效匹配。尤其在绿电占⽐要求超 80% 的国家枢纽节点，储
能配⽐提升与调度软件精准化将成为关键⽀撑，相关软硬件企业有望迎来量价⻬升机遇。
电信板块同样⼤跌，中国电信、中国联通、中国移动纷纷下跌。
连续 12 个跌停后，ST 洲际上演地天板
ST 洲际低开跌停后被巨量资⾦快速拉升，最终涨停，上演 “ 地天板 ” 。此前， ST 洲际已连续 12 个
交易⽇ “ ⼀字 ” 跌停。
ST 洲际的连续跌停始于 2026 年 4 ⽉底。 4 ⽉ 29 ⽇，公司因 2025 年度财务报告内部控制被审计机
构出具否定意⻅，被上交所实施其他⻛险警⽰，股票简称由 “ 洲际油⽓ ” 变更为 “ST 洲际 ” ，公司股
价开启连续跌停模式。
5 ⽉ 7 ⽇， ST 洲际发布公告称，控股股东⼴西正和实业集团有限公司被债权⼈张友进以 “ 不能清偿

到期债务且明显缺乏清偿能⼒ ” 为由，向柳州市中级⼈⺠法院申请破产清算。
公告同时披露，⼴西正和所持公司约 50834.18 万股中，已有约 50827.69 万股被质押，质押⽐例
接近 100% ，且全部股份被多轮轮候冻结。
据上证报，回顾本轮⾏情， ST 洲际的股价波动堪称 “ 过⼭⻋ ” 。 2025 年 12 ⽉，受益于国际油价上
⾏、油⽓板块热度提升， ST 洲际股价从 2.4 元 / 股附近启动强势上涨， 2026 年 3 ⽉ 5 ⽇， ST 洲际股
价最⾼触及 9.09 元 / 股，区间涨幅超过 270% 。

===== Page 156 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
395 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
正在加载 .
得益于油价上涨， ST 洲际 2026 年第⼀季度实现营业收⼊ 6.90 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 26.14% ；归⺟净利
润达 1.11 亿元，同⽐⼤增 160.38% ；扣⾮净利润 1.12 亿元，同⽐增⻓ 163.37% 。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 157 =====

SpaceX 即将公开招股书，拟募资 750 亿美元剑指史上最⼤科技 IPO 。然⽽光鲜背后暗流涌
动：累计亏损 370 亿美元，超⼗家头部科技公司上市时之和；调整后 EBITDA ⾼达 66 亿美
元， GAAP 净亏损却达 49 亿。 Starlink 以 114 亿营收独霸全球七⼤卫星运营商， AI 部⻔增速
却仅 23% ，远逊于竞争对⼿。这是⼀份极度撕裂的成绩单。
摘要：
SpaceX 即将公开招股书，这份⽂件将同时呈现令⼈眼花缭乱的增⻓故事与触⽬惊⼼的亏损数
字，为这家公司史上规模最⼤、最具雄⼼的 IPO 拉开序幕。
此次 IPO 募资规模或⾼达 750 亿美元，将成为有史以来最⼤规模的科技公司上市。
招股书披露的信息将帮助投资者⾸次系统审视 SpaceX 旗下看似彼此割裂的多条业务线 ——⽕箭
发射、卫星互联⽹、社交媒体、 AI 模型、数据中⼼、国防合同及⽕星探索。
招股书将揭⽰， SpaceX 历史累计亏损⾼达 370 亿美元，超过此后上市的亏损规模最⼤的⼗家科
技公司之和。与此同时，公司旗下卫星互联⽹业务 Starlink 去年营收达 114 亿美元，⼀家之⼒便

抵得上全球七⼤卫星通信运营商的营收总和。
看点⼀：历史累计亏损触⽬惊⼼，超过⼗家头部科技公司之和
SpaceX 的亏损规模在科技 IPO 历史上堪称前所未有。截⾄去年年末，公司资产负债表显⽰累计
亏损达 370 亿美元，这⼀数字不仅超过了 Didi Chuxing 、 Uber 、 Airbnb 及 Rivian 等知名企业上
市时累计亏损之和，更超过紧随其后亏损规模最⼤的⼗家科技公司的总和。
如此庞⼤的亏损积累，折射出 SpaceX 在 24 年发展历程中构建主导性⽕箭发射能⼒所需的巨额资
本投⼊，以及多年来向员⼯授予的⼤规模股权激励。今年早些时候完成的对 xAI 的收购同样加剧
了这⼀压⼒ ——xAI 去年录得⼤额亏损。
看点⼆：调整后盈利与真实亏损之间存在巨⼤鸿沟
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 158 =====

剥离主要费⽤项⽬后， SpaceX 去年的财务表现颇为亮眼：调整后息税折旧摊销前利润
（ EBITDA ）达到 66 亿美元。然⽽按照通⽤会计准则，公司去年净亏损为 49 亿美元。
⼆者之间的差距尤为突出。 SpaceX 调整项⽬所剔除的费⽤总额，是其调整后 EBITDA 的 1.7 倍。
这⼀⽐例⾼于其他资本密集型企业，包括 AI 数据中⼼运营商 CoreWeave 、卫星互联⽹供应商
Viasat ，乃⾄⻢斯克旗下的另⼀家上市公司特斯拉。
这种差距源于 SpaceX 独特的成本结构 ——⾼资本⽀出、⾼股权激励叠加债务压⼒，共同推⾼了
被调整项⽬剔除在外的费⽤总量。尽管企业向投资者展⽰⾮标准利润指标是惯常做法，但
SpaceX 调整幅度之⼤，在同类企业中实属罕⻅。
看点三： Starlink ⼀家抵七家，卫星互联⽹市场独占鳌头
Starlink 是 SpaceX 最具价值的核⼼资产。在短短五年间，这项卫星互联⽹业务已发展⾄主导市场
的地位。
去年， Starlink 营收达 114 亿美元，是其最⼤竞争对⼿ Viasat 营收的两倍以上，更相当于 SES 、

Viasat 、 AST SpaceMobile 、 Globalstar 、 Iridium 、 Eutelsat 及 EchoStar 卫星部⻔七家合计
的营收总量。这⼀数据清晰勾勒出 Starlink 在全球卫星通信格局中的压倒性优势。

===== Page 159 =====

看点四：⽕箭发射商业化进展迟缓，产能正向 AI 轨道计算倾斜
SpaceX 旗下 Space 业务板块（主要为外部客⼾提供⽕箭发射服务）去年增速明显放缓，营收仅
增⻓ 8% ⾄ 41 亿美元，主要依赖来⾃美国国防部和 NASA 的合同。
增速低迷的根本原因在于： SpaceX 去年共完成 165 次猎鹰 9 号发射，其中仅 43 次承接了外部商业
客⼾，近四分之三的运⼒被 Starlink ⾃⽤，且这⼀⽐例较往年有所上升。招股书草案直⾔， " 客⼾
发射次数及单次发射均价在 2024 ⾄ 2025 年间基本持平 " 。
更值得关注的是，招股书草案透露， SpaceX 未来将把原本服务于 Starlink 的⼤量发射运⼒转向 AI
业务，⽤于将服务器等算⼒设施送⼊轨道。这⼀战略转向或将进⼀步压缩对外商业发射的可⽤
产能。
看点五： AI 部⻔增速黯淡，难与 OpenAI 和 Anthropic 抗衡
SpaceX 的 AI 部⻔整合了社交媒体平台 X 及旗下拥有 Grok 聊天机器⼈的 xAI 。然⽽从数据来看，该

部⻔的增⻓表现难称亮眼。

===== Page 160 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
313 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
去年 xAI 营收增幅仅为 23% ，与竞争对⼿的差距悬殊：据 The Information 报道， Anthropic 同期营
收增幅超过 1000% ， OpenAI 增幅则接近 300% 。
更值得注意的是， AI 部⻔的营收⽬前主要来源于社交媒体平台 X ，⽽⾮ AI 业务本⾝，具体占⽐尚
不明朗。公司将该部⻔增⻓归因于 " 订阅收⼊增加，以及⼴告和平台服务收⼊提升 " ，这进⼀步凸
显了 AI 变现能⼒仍待验证的困境。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 161 =====

上调全年营收预期
摘要：
亚玛芬体育的增⻓故事，正在从单⼀品牌爆发，转向多品牌协同放量。
⼀季度，亚玛芬体育实现营收 19.45 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 32% ；调整后⽑利率提升⾄ 60% ，调整后
营业利润率提升⾄ 17.4% 。
驱动这轮增⻓的核⼼，仍然是始祖⻦和萨洛蒙。
其中，始祖⻦所在的技术服装分部⼀季度收⼊ 8.85 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 33% ，调整后营业利润率
达到 26.4% 。
作为亚玛芬体系内盈利能⼒最强的品牌，始祖⻦继续承担 “ 利润锚 ” 的⻆⾊。不同于早期更多依靠
⼤中华区增⻓，本季度始祖⻦在四⼤区域均实现两位数增⻓，北美市场也出现明显加速。
管理层在电话会上提到，⼥装产品在⼀季度延续强劲势头，增速超过始祖⻦其他任何品类。品
牌正在吸引新的⼥性消费者，既有⼥性⽤⼾的参与度和消费⽔平也在提升。
管理层表⽰，随着品牌持续改进合⾝度、款式和功能，并利⽤⾃⾝设计优势扩展产品系列，⼥
性消费者对始祖⻦的品牌亲和⼒正在上升。
对⾼端⼾外品牌⽽⾔，⼥性市场不仅代表新增客群，也意味着更多⽇常穿搭场景。相⽐专业登

⼭、滑雪等低频需求，通勤、旅⾏、城市⼾外和轻运动的使⽤频次更⾼，也更有助于⽀撑⻓期
复购。
萨洛蒙则是亚玛芬当前弹性最⼤的潜在增⻓引擎。
⼀季度，萨洛蒙所在的⼾外性能分部收⼊ 7.14 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 42% ，调整后营业利润率达到
20.4% 。
公司在电话会上明确提到，鞋类已经成为萨洛蒙⾮常重要的增⻓引擎。其增⻓势头正在跨地
区、跨渠道扩展，并同时覆盖运动⻛尚和专业运动两条产品线。
前者是萨洛蒙⾛向更⼤市场的关键⼊⼝。例如 XT-6 、 XT-Whisper 等系列，既保留了⼾外功能属
性，⼜更容易进⼊⽇常穿搭和潮流消费语境。
这让萨洛蒙的增⻓不再只取决于专业跑步、徒步或越野⼈群。尤其是在年轻消费者和⼥性消费
者中，萨洛蒙正在以传统⼾外品牌较少⻅的⽅式建⽴连接。
同时，公司提到，新的 GRVL 系列正在以前所未有的⽅式帮助萨洛蒙打开跑鞋市场；在北美和
EMEA 地区，萨洛蒙也正在跑步专业渠道获得牵引⼒。
区域上，⼤中华区是萨洛蒙⼀季度增⻓最快的市场。该品牌在⼤中华区的线下扩张也在明显提

速。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 162 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
78 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
截⾄⼀季度末，萨洛蒙在⼤中华区⻔店总数达到 302 家；公司预计 2026 年全年在⼤中华区净新开
45 家萨洛蒙⻔店，⾼于此前计划。
不过，这并不是简单的 “ 多开店 ” 。
公司强调，萨洛蒙在中国的开店策略正在从数量扩张转向⻔店升级：选择更核⼼的购物中⼼、
更⼤⾯积的⻔店，并为服装和配饰预留更多展⽰空间。北京朝阳合⽣汇新开的萨洛蒙旗舰店，
⾯积超过 8000 平⽅英尺，提供完整鞋服产品线和更完整的消费体验。
这与始祖⻦过去⼏年在中国的打法相似：先通过核⼼城市和⾼势能⻔店建⽴品牌⼼智，再逐步
提升全品类销售能⼒。
在鞋类成为流量⼊⼝之后，服装、包袋、袜⼦等有望变成提升客单价和利润率的重要抓⼿。
⼀季度，萨洛蒙所在的⼾外性能分部 DTC 收⼊同⽐增⻓ 57% ，主要受新⻔店和⻔店效率提升推

动。⼤中华区、亚太和美洲市场的萨洛蒙⻔店表现尤其突出。
这也为亚玛芬整体 DTC 渠道扩张提供了重要增量。
⼀季度，亚玛芬 DTC 收⼊达到 10.02 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 44.6% ，占⽐已过半；批发收⼊则同⽐增
⻓ 21% 。
DTC 占⽐提升的意义，不只是渠道结构变化。直营⻔店和⾃有电商能够帮助亚玛芬更好地控制
价格体系、塑造品牌体验，并沉淀消费者数据。
对于始祖⻦和萨洛蒙这类具备溢价能⼒的品牌⽽⾔， DTC 放⼤也会直接改善⽑利率和经营质
量。
当然，⾼增⻓也伴随投⼊压⼒。⻔店扩张、 IT 基础设施、营销活动和产品开发，都需要持续资本
开⽀⽀撑。公司预计全年资本开⽀约 4 亿美元，主要⽤于零售扩张和 IT 基础设施投资。
⼀季度，亚玛芬库存同⽐增⻓ 33% ⾄ 16.88 亿美元，略⾼于营收增速。
在⼀季度表现超预期后，亚玛芬将全年收⼊增⻓指引由 16%-18% 上调⾄ 20%-22% 。接下来，始
祖⻦与萨洛蒙能否在扩张中继续维持品牌势能和渠道质量，将决定这轮增⻓的持续性。
限免

===== Page 163 =====

图⽚
1 条评论
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⻅闻⽤⼾15 ⼩时前中国天津
0  回复
很多⼈上个班都穿⻦的冲锋⾐

===== Page 164 =====

花旗发出史上最严通胀警告：霍尔⽊兹海峡封锁与超强厄尔尼诺正形成 " 双杀 " 格局，能源与
粮⻝价格的上⾏⻛险极度不对称。布伦特原油⽜市情景冲击 150 美元；若危机再延续 6 个
⽉，全球⽯油库存将跌回 1979 年第⼆次⽯油危机⽔平，油价涨⾄约 200 美元 / 桶，通胀失控
⻛险骤然迫近。
摘要：
两股史诗级⼒量正在同步绞杀全球⼤宗商品市场。
花旗在 5 ⽉ 19 ⽇的报告中，发出迄今最为严厉的通胀警告：霍尔⽊兹海峡封锁与超强厄尔尼诺正
形成历史罕⻅的 " 双杀 " 格局，能源与粮⻝价格的上⾏⻛险极度不对称，若当前态势延续六⾄九个
⽉，全球⽯油库存将跌⾄ 1970 年代第⼆次⽯油危机时的⽔平，届时全球通胀将⾯临失控⻛险。
数字⾜以令任何宏观投资者不寒⽽栗：⾃ 2026 年初⾄今，全球⽯油及油品消费⽀出已飙升约 2 万
亿美元，折算年率⾼达约 4.6 万亿美元（约占全球 GDP 的 3.7% ），⽽年初这⼀数字仅为约 2.6 万亿
美元（占 GDP 约 2.1% ）。
在花旗的预测中，布伦特原油近期⽬标价设定为 120 美元 / 桶，⽜市情景下或冲击 150 美元 / 桶。⼀

旦油价升⾄约 200 美元 / 桶，⽯油⽀出占 GDP ⽐例将复制 2008 年中及 1970 年代晚期第⼆次⽯油冲
击时 7%-8% 的历史极值。
农产品压⼒同步升温，且⻛险来源更为复杂。 BCOM 农产品指数年初⾄今已上涨 13% ，粮⻝综
合价格指数上涨 5% 。
花旗指出，霍尔⽊兹⻓期封锁将通过中断化肥和农药供应直接冲击全球农业产出，⽽美国 NOAA
预测发⽣概率⾼达 82% 的强厄尔尼诺现象将进⼀步打击南亚、东南亚等主要产区收成 —— 两道
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 165 =====

冲击叠加，令未来 6-12 个⽉内农产品价格⻛险 " 严重偏向上⾏ " 。
⾯对上述双重冲击，花旗建议投资者通过多种⼤宗商品敞⼝对冲⻝品和能源价格上⾏⻛险，并
指出⼤宗商品⼴义指数⽬前提供约 10% 的正展期收益（ positive roll yield ），为近 30 年来最⾼⽔
平。花旗当前对布伦特原油、欧洲及亚洲天然⽓（ TTF/JKM ）、铝、动⼒煤以及 ICE ⻝糖和可可
均维持近期看涨⽴场。
霍尔⽊兹前景：基准情景 7 ⽉达成意向书，时间线⾼度不确定
在花旗的基准预测情景（概率 50% ）中，美伊双⽅将于 7 ⽉前后就某种形式的降级意向书
（ MOU ）达成共识，霍尔⽊兹海峡在 2026 年三季度逐步重开，但年底前难以完全恢复。
悲观情景下（ 30% 概率）军事升级导致区域能源基础设施受到实质性破坏，协议久拖不决。乐
观情景（ 20% 概率）则是伊朗于 5 ⽉底达成更⼴泛协议，中东闲置产能在下半年逐步释放，油价
快速回落⾄供应过剩区间。
就伊朗维持海峡封锁的动机，花旗列举了多重考量：最⼤化对未来攻击的威慑⼒、通过持续库

存消耗将未来⽯油收⼊现值最⼤化、对已阵亡领导层⼈物实施报复等。推动伊朗最终回到谈判
桌的关键变量则包括：改善国内经济表现，以及规避国际军事⼲预⻛险等。
花旗认为，迄今未爆发⼤规模军事升级的核⼼原因，是伊朗保留有⾜以摧毁区域能源基础设施
的导弹能⼒ —— ⼀旦升级，可能导致持续数年的永久性供应损失；同时伊朗也具备打击包括阿
联酋和科威特在内的美国盟友的能⼒。
花旗同时指出，美伊双⽅⽬前均尚未承受⾜够⼤的经济或政治痛苦以促成协议：美国股市和债
市整体仍具韧性，⽽伊朗强硬派政权兼具武器能⼒、货币灵活性，以及⼀定程度的⻝品和药品
⾃给能⼒。
能源价格飙升：油品全线逼近俄乌冲突历史⾼点
当前能源冲击已清晰传导⾄终端消费端。截⾄ 5 ⽉ 19 ⽇，全球主要油品消费加权平均价格较年初
上涨约 91% ，达每桶约 128 美元。其中，柴油年初⾄今涨幅约 95% ，航空燃油约 97% ，汽油约
99% ，精炼溢价（ crack spread ）较年初扩⼤约 186% 。
在美国市场，普通汽油全国均价约为每加仑 4.6 美元，接近俄乌冲突期间 5.0 美元的历史峰值，年

初时这⼀价格仅为 3.4 美元；柴油价格约为每加仑 5.6-5.7 美元，已与俄乌冲突⾼点持平，同期涨
幅逾 60% 。

===== Page 166 =====

花旗认为，夏季驾⻋旺季临近将进⼀步推⾼美国国内油品压⼒，这也可能成为美⽅在谈判中软
化⽴场的重要催化剂。
欧洲天然⽓⽅⾯，花旗维持看涨⽴场，预计 2026 年 TTF 均价将达每百万英热单位 17.8 美元，⾼
于当前约 16 美元的期货价格。花旗指出，海峡危机持续越久，欧洲⽓库存在取暖季前触及五年
低位的⻛险就越⾼，届时价格可能出现⾮线性跳涨。美国天然⽓则因⽣产旺盛⽽保持中性，花
旗维持 2026 年下半年均价 3.3 美元 /MMBtu 的预测。
重演 1979 ？库存警戒线仅剩 6-9 个⽉
花旗为 1970 年代危机重演划定了⼀条明确的时间线。若全球⽯油供应缺⼝持续以每⽇约 7-8 百万
桶的速度运⾏，且 80-90% 的库存消耗发⽣在中国以外，中国以外全球⽯油库存将于 2027 年初跌
破 70 天消费量 —— 第⼆次⽯油危机期间 OECD 库存据报触及的临界⽔位。当前这⼀数字约为 94
天。
花旗进⼀步测算，若油品产量损失再持续约 6 个⽉，油价需涨⾄约 200 美元 / 桶，⽯油⽀出占全球

GDP ⽐重才会触及 2008 年中期和 1979 年危机的峰值⽔平。
但即便在此之前，持续的去库压⼒已⾜以引发市场恐慌式囤积⾏为 —— 花旗指出，部分国家可
能率先推出出⼝禁令，进⽽引发⼤范围囤积，正如 1970 年代历史所呈现的那样。
与 1970 年代不同的是，此次 OECD 战略储备在冲突发⽣后已承诺释放约 4 亿桶（冲突前储备约 12
亿桶），将⼀定程度上平抑库存去化速度和价格冲击烈度。花旗认为，在乐观情景下（三季度逐
步重开），全球⽯油库存中国以外累计消耗约 9 亿桶，将下探 2011-2014 年低位，但尚不⾄于触发
1970 年代式的全⾯短缺。
农产品 " 完美⻛暴 " ：化肥断供叠加厄尔尼诺
花旗从三条路径分析了农产品价格的上⾏驱动。
化肥供应冲击：中东地区是全球化肥出⼝的关键枢纽，通过霍尔⽊兹海峡输出的化肥占全球贸
易量的⽐重分别为 —— 硫磺约 49% 、尿素约 36% 、氨约 29% 、磷酸⼆铵（ DAP ）约 25% 。

===== Page 167 =====

化肥占主要⾕物可变成本约 50% ，占糖⽣产可变成本约 20-25% 。供应持续收紧将导致巴西和印
度等农业⼤国在下⼀种植季减少施肥，直接压缩粮⻝和糖料产量。此外，以⽯油为基础原料的
杀菌剂和农药供应同样⾯临紧缺⻛险，进⼀步拖累作物保护⽔平。
⽣物燃料替代需求：能源价格⾼企背景下，全球主要经济体正加速提⾼⼄醇混合⽐例 —— 巴西
从 E30 提升⾄ E32 ，印度推进 E20 ，越南和危地⻢拉⽬标均为 E10 。这将持续将糖、⽟⽶和⼤⾖
从⻝品供应链分流⾄能源消费端，花旗认为这对糖和⽟⽶的影响尤为显著。
厄尔尼诺冲击：美国 NOAA 预测厄尔尼诺将于 2026 年 5-7 ⽉出现，发⽣概率 82% ，强厄尔尼诺发
⽣概率 62% 。
花旗指出，强厄尔尼诺将在印度（全球第⼆⼤⻝糖⽣产国及主要出⼝国）、泰国、巴基斯坦、印
度尼西亚等主产区引发⼲旱，⼤幅压缩⽢蔗产量；西⾮和厄⽠多尔的可可产区将因强旱情遭受
冲击；越南和印度尼西亚的⼲旱则将显著削减罗布斯塔咖啡产量。
基于以上判断，花旗具体价格⽬标为：⽟⽶ 3 个⽉⽬标 500 美分 / 蒲式⽿（较现价 +7% ），⼩⻨ 3 个

⽉⽬标 700 美分 / 蒲式⽿（ +5% ），⻝糖 3 个⽉⽬标 17 美分 / 磅（ +14% ），可可 3 个⽉⽬标 5000 美元 /
吨、 12 个⽉⽬标 6000 美元 / 吨。
铝： 50 年最强供应冲击，库存料触历史新低
花旗将铝列为最看好的⾦属品种，称其具备 "50 年来最强看涨供应⾯格局 " ，并将 2026 年下半年
价格⽬标设在每吨 4000 美元，在极端看涨情景（伊朗达成协议、油价回落⽀撑全球经济强劲复
苏）下， 2027 年⽬标价可达每吨 5350 美元。

===== Page 168 =====

供应冲击⽅⾯，花旗估算中东铝产量损失在 2026 年累计约 300 万吨，折年损失约 400-450 万吨，
相当于中国以外全球供应量的 10-15% 、全球总量的 5-6% 。此次冲击发⽣前，铝库存已处于约 50
年周期低位，中⼼情景下预计未来 6-12 个⽉将进⼀步降⾄历史新低。
中国的增产弹性已⼤幅受限 —— 在过去 20 年间为全球提供了约 90% 增量供应的中国，⽬前受制
于产能上限约束，可盈利的在产产能接近满产运⾏。印度尼西亚是少数具备实质性增产潜⼒的
地区之⼀，但总体规模相对有限，且扩产时间线仍⾯临执⾏和爬产⻛险。
花旗认为，要阻⽌铝市库存继续下降，需要出现相当于全球⾦融危机规模的需求衰退。
⻩⾦：短期受跨资产去杠杆压制，中⻓期滞胀溢价仍待释放
花旗维持⻩⾦价格⽬标不变： 0-3 个⽉⽬标价 4300 美元 / 盎司， 6-12 个⽉⽬标价 5000 美元 / 盎司。
短期内，⻩⾦⾯临较强的抛售压⼒，主要来⾃跨资产去杠杆（ de-grossing ） —— 在⾼油价与股
市可能再度调整的背景下，⻩⾦仓位对⻛险事件的脆弱性尤为突出。花旗援引历史数据指出，
在重⼤⻛险资产下跌的初期，⻩⾦往往先⾏跟跌，随后才作为避险资产企稳并形成独⽴⾏情，
2008 年全球⾦融危机期间亦遵循这⼀规律。
在看涨情景（ 30% 概率）下，若伊朗冲突延续并引发滞胀，⻩⾦有望在 2026 年底升⾄ 6000 美元 /
盎司， 2027 年进⼀步涨⾄ 7000 美元 / 盎司，核⼼驱动⼒为组合对冲需求的持续扩张和战略性⻩⾦
配置的上升。
花旗同时发出结构性警⽰：过去三年⻩⾦持有者账⾯浮盈约达 17 万亿美元（实际价格计），哪怕
仅有不到 6% 的利润转向其他资产，也⾜以抵消当前⻩⾦市场全部实物需求，引发类似加密货币
式的剧烈波动 —— 尤其在地缘政治不确定性阶段性缓和的情境下。
花旗建议：⼤宗商品迎来 30 年最佳展期收益窗⼝
⾯对双重冲击⻛险，花旗为投资者列出了⼀套分层对冲框架。
霍尔⽊兹海峡封锁与厄尔尼诺对冲：做多⼴义⼤宗商品指数近端展期敞⼝。花旗指出，⼤宗商
品⽬前提供约 10% 的正展期收益，为近 30 年最⾼⽔平，这⼀特征将在霍尔⽊兹海峡流量保持实
质性受阻期间持续存在；同时推荐做多⼴义农业⼤宗商品指数作为⻝品通胀对冲⼯具。
霍尔⽊兹海峡封锁专项对冲：做多欧洲柴油和汽油（相对做空美国同类油品） —— 持续封锁将
提升美国出台油品出⼝禁令的概率，届时美欧油品价差将⼤幅拉开；做多近端展期布伦特原
油；做多 2026 年秋季 TTF 天然⽓合约，花旗认为该合约具备凸性（ convex ）上⾏潜⼒。
强厄尔尼诺专项对冲：做多⻝糖、罗布斯塔咖啡和可可。
花旗已开⽴的未平仓建议还包括做多铝（基于供应⼤幅不⾜下的结构性收紧），以及做多锂（基
于供应相对需求的持续短缺）。此外，花旗过去⼀个⽉持续推荐的近端布伦特多头仓位（以
BCOMCOT 为代表）已累计上涨约 10% 。

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
以上精彩内容来⾃追⻛交易台。

===== Page 169 =====

更详细的解读，包括实时解读、⼀线研究等内容，请加⼊【追⻛交易台 ▪ 年度会员】

===== Page 170 =====

===== Page 171 =====

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~
以上精彩内容来⾃追⻛交易台。
更详细的解读，包括实时解读、⼀线研究等内容，请加⼊【追⻛交易台 ▪ 年度会员】

===== Page 172 =====

===== Page 173 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
523 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
3 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
灰11 ⼩时前中国⼴东省
0  回复
耸⼈听闻
防御型投资者13 ⼩时前中国上海
0  回复
通胀就是滞胀
MobileUser634615 ⼩时前中国⼴东省
1  回复
天天的吓我⽣怕⽜市让我赚钱  😪

===== Page 174 =====

分析认为，即便 2026 年 AI 热度延续，若投资难以为继， 2027 ⾄ 2028 年恐重演 50% 跌幅的
科技崩盘；⽽近期涌现的 AI 巨头 IPO 潮，本质上是将早期投资⻛险向散⼾和养⽼⾦的⼤规模
转嫁。
摘要：
当前 AI 热潮的财务逻辑已难以⾃洽。美国超⼤规模云计算商的资本开⽀增速远超营收增速，若按
现有轨迹推演，其投资回报率将⼤幅为负，⽽即将到来的 AI 公司 IPO 潮，或不过是将这⼀⻛险从
早期投资⼈⼿中，转移给散⼾与养⽼⾦。
据英国《⾦融时报》刊登的分析⽂章， Panmure Liberum 董事总经理 Joachim Klement 指出，
2025 年美国企业在 IT 设备与软件上的投⼊已接近 1.5 万亿美元，过去四个季度中，科技投资贡献
了美国 GDP 增⻓的 93% 。这意味着⼀旦科技投资出现回落，美国经济将迅速陷⼊衰退。
与此同时， OpenAI 、 Anthropic 等⼤型语⾔模型开发商正筹备今年晚些时候的⾸次公开发⾏，计
划趁投资者情绪⾼涨套现。 Klement 认为，在 " 炒作热度 " 真正退潮之前，这些 IPO 本质上是⼀场

⼤规模⻛险转嫁 —— 将当前持有者⼿中的投资⻛险，出售给愿意为故事买单的散⼾投资者、养
⽼基⾦及其他机构。
他预计，超⼤规模云计算商宣布削减投资计划的时间节点，不太可能发⽣在 2026 年，但在 2027
年或 2028 年的可能性不可忽视。届时，全球股市将⾯临新⼀轮熊市冲击，重演 2000 年科技股崩
盘、⾸年跌幅超 50% 的⻛险是真实存在的。
泡沫规模已超 TMT 时代， AI 投资回报可能为负
Klement 将当前 AI 热潮与上世纪 90 年代末的科技、媒体与电信（ TMT ）泡沫进⾏对⽐，认为两者
虽有相似之处，但当前的规模已远超彼时。
数据显⽰， TMT 泡沫顶峰时期，美国企业年度 IT 投⼊约为 466 亿美元，经通胀调整后约合 829 亿
美元；⽽ 2025 年这⼀数字已接近 1.5 万亿美元，为彼时实际投⼊的近两倍。
更值得警惕的是，科技投资对美国经济的⽀撑已达到前所未有的程度。 Klement 测算，过去四个
季度中，有 93% 的美国 GDP 增⻓源⾃科技投资拉动，⽽即便在 TMT 泡沫的⾼峰期，这⼀⽐例也

仅约 60% 。
核⼼⽭盾集中在超⼤规模云计算商的财务模型上。微软、 Alphabet 、亚⻢逊、 Meta 和甲⻣⽂计
划在未来五年内投⼊数千亿美元建设数据中⼼，以⽀撑 AI 模型的算⼒需求。 Klement 收集了上述
公司分析师对 2025 年⾄ 2030 年资本开⽀与营收的⼀致性预测，并进⾏了推演：预期资本开⽀将
以每年 20% 的速度增⻓ —— 这⼀增速在该⾏业历史上前所未⻅；与此同时，营收的预期增速仅
为每年 15% 。
在 " 零成本 " 这⼀极度乐观的假设前提下， Klement 计算出，除亚⻢逊外，其余所有超⼤规模云计
算商在新增 AI 数据中⼼投资上的隐含回报率均为负值。" 这些数字表明，如果超⼤规模云计算商
继续沿当前轨迹推进， AI 热潮将演变为历史上最⼤规模的股东价值毁灭事件之⼀。 "
两条出路，皆难⾛通
⾯对这⼀财务困境， Klement 梳理出两种理论上的解困路径，但均⾯临极⾼难度。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 175 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
115 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
其⼀， AI 技术的普及为这些公司带来远超预期的营收增量。然⽽若要实现 10% 的投资回报率，超
⼤规模云计算商每年需要额外创造 2 万亿⾄ 5 万亿美元的营收 —— ⽽这些公司⽬前的年营收总和
仅约为 1.5 万亿美元。
其⼆，计划中的数据中⼼、芯⽚等领域的投资最终未能兑现，可能的诱因包括权益投资者对该
板块趋于谨慎，或数据中⼼的债务融资条件收紧。
但这条路同样暗藏⻛险：⼀旦这些公司宣布削减投资计划，从英伟达、 ASML 到三星和台积电，
全球多个市场中被投资预期所⽀撑的科技股股价将⾯临剧烈冲击。
IPO 潮：⻛险转嫁的窗⼝期
Klement 认为， AI 公司加速推进 IPO 的⾏为，与上述财务逻辑存在内在关联。
OpenAI 、 Anthropic 等公司有强烈动机在炒作热度消退之前完成上市，借助投资者对 AI 增⻓的乐

观预期实现⾼估值融资。这⼀进程客观上为维系当前热潮提供了⽀撑。
然⽽从⻓远来看，他将这些 IPO 定性为 " ⼀场将投资⻛险从当前持有者⼤规模转移⾄散⼾投资
者、养⽼基⾦及其他愿意为炒作买单者的⾏动 " 。早期机构股东有机会在公众市场套现，⽽接盘
者将直⾯财务逻辑最终回归现实的⻛险。
泡沫何时破裂？
在时间判断上， Klement 援引格林斯潘 1996 年 12 ⽉对科技股 " ⾮理性繁荣 " 的那次著名警告作为参
照 —— 彼时距泡沫最终破裂尚有三年时间，直⾄ 2000 年市场才崩盘。
他认为， 2026 年超⼤规模云计算商宣布削减投资的可能性不⼤， AI 炒作仍有望持续；但 " 不可能
的数学 " 始终存在，营销热度终将消退，现实将在某个时点回归 ——" 可能不在 2026 年，但 2027
年或 2028 年或许就会到来 " 。
⼀旦科技投资出现 4% ⾄ 6% 的温和收缩 —— 这⼀幅度甚⾄⼩于 1960 年代及 2009 年衰退期间的科
技投资回落 —— 美国经济将迅速承压。届时，美国、英国乃⾄整个欧洲股市都将⾯临新⼀轮熊

市， 2000 年代初科技股崩盘⾸年跌幅逾 50% 的历史或将重演。
限免
请发表您的评论

===== Page 176 =====

图⽚
表情 发布评论

===== Page 177 =====

⽬前已有超过 11 万家酒店接⼊。
摘要：
作者  | ⻩昱
5 ⽉ 20 ⽇，⻜猪正式推出⾯向酒店商家的 AI 产品 “ 酒店商家智能助理 ” ，并宣布向平台全部酒店商
家免费开放。
按照⻜猪的定义，这⼀产品相当于给酒店 “ 配备了⼀名 24 ⼩时在线的 AI 运营⼈员 ” ，覆盖价格调
整、库存管理、财务处理、点评回复以及经营决策建议等多个环节。
从产品形态来看，这并不是⼀个简单的客服机器⼈，⽽更像是⻜猪将此前零散测试的 AI ⼯具进⾏
系统化整合后推出的酒店经营智能体。
对于当前⾼度依赖⼈⼯运营的酒店⾏业⽽⾔，⻜猪试图切⼊的痛点⾮常明确：在酒店⾏业普遍
⾯临 “ ⼈⼒荒 ” 、利润率承压以及线上运营复杂度持续提升的背景下，⽤ AI 替代部分基础运营岗位
和决策辅助⼯作。
据⻜猪披露数据，⽬前已有超过 11 万家酒店接⼊⻜猪酒店商家智能助理。测试数据显⽰，商家
操作效率提升约 70% ，订单查询、账单结算等问题可在 5 秒内响应，商家需求识别准确率达
99% ，问题完结率超过 95% 。

在经营决策层⾯，⻜猪称，酒店使⽤ AI 经营建议后，价库管理决策时间平均从 2 ⼩时缩短⾄ 10 分
钟，部分酒店综合收益提升超过 20% 。
从具体功能来看，⻜猪酒店商家智能助理主要覆盖三类场景。
第⼀类是基础运营⾃动化。酒店可以通过⾃然语⾔直接向 AI 下达指令，例如批量修改房态、调整
库存、录⼊发票等。过去需要运营⼈员逐项操作的⼯作，被压缩为⼀句话指令完成。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 178 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
53 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
第⼆类是收益管理和经营建议。 AI 会结合天⽓、商圈活动、市场供需变化等因素，对酒店价格和
库存策略提出建议。这实际上已经触及酒店⾏业⻓期以来最核⼼的收益管理体系。对于中⼩酒
店⽽⾔，过去这类能⼒通常只存在于⼤型连锁酒店集团或专业收益管理团队之中。
第三类则是服务流程管理，包括⼊住前提醒、住后跟进、评价回复等。⻜猪⽅⾯表⽰，⽬前已
有近 7000 家酒店使⽤ AI ⾃动⽣成点评回复，商家采纳率达到 90% 。
⻜猪此时推出酒店 AI 智能体，并不仅仅是⼀次单纯的产品更新，⽽更像是在线旅游平台新⼀轮 AI
竞争的延伸。
过去两年，⼤模型技术爆发后， OTA ⾏业最早的 AI 探索主要集中在⽤⼾侧，例如 AI 旅⾏规划、智
能⾏程助⼿、攻略⽣成等功能。但随着⾏业逐渐意识到，单纯依靠 C 端 AI 难以形成真正商业闭

环，各家平台开始转向产业链上游，即酒店、航司、景区等供给侧。
原因并不复杂。对于 OTA 平台⽽⾔，真正影响平台收⼊和利润的，并不是⽤⼾ “ 如何规划旅⾏ ” ，
⽽是商家能否提升经营效率、提⾼订单转化率以及增加⼴告和营销投⼊。谁能更深度嵌⼊酒店
经营体系，谁就更容易建⽴新的平台壁垒。
这也意味着，⻜猪此次推出 AI 智能体，本质上是在争夺酒店数字化升级⼊⼝。
不过，酒店收益管理本⾝⾼度依赖经验和市场判断。 AI 虽然能够基于历史数据给出建议，但⼀旦
出现极端天⽓、突发事件或区域市场变化，模型可能出现误判。对于酒店⽽⾔，错误调价、库
存失衡，都可能直接影响收⼊。
因此，⽬前⻜猪采取的策略仍然是 “ 建议型 AI”—— 即由 AI 提供决策参考，最终是否执⾏仍由商家
⾃主决定。这种模式在短期内更容易被⾏业接受，但也意味着 AI 距离真正 “ ⾃动经营 ” 还有较⻓距
离。
AI 正在重新改变 OTA ⾏业的竞争逻辑。⽽这场竞争，显然才刚刚开始。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 179 =====

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 180 =====

美银调查显⽰机构及富豪现⾦配置率降⾄历史极低，资⾦近乎全额买⼊股票。这种极端仓
位压缩了流动性缓冲，⼀旦股市因过度依赖 AI 叙事⽽回撤，富裕群体将因财富效应缩⽔率
先收紧钱包，重创作为美国经济⽀柱的顶层消费。
摘要：
美国股市的繁荣表象之下，⼀个潜在的脆弱性正在累积：愿意⼊市的资⾦已⼤量到位，⽽⼀旦
市场转向，消费端的冲击或将难以避免。
据美国银⾏两项受到密切关注的调查显⽰，机构投资者上⽉现⾦配置降幅创两年最⼤，股票配
置增幅则创有史以来最⾼，现⾦占总资产⽐例已降⾄ 3.9% 。与此同时，美国银⾏管理的逾 450
万亿美元私⼈客⼾资产 —— 对象为可投资资产不低于 300 万美元的富裕个⼈ —— 其现⾦占⽐已不
⾜ 10% ，为该调查启动以来的最低⽔平。
这⼀动向折射出投资者对通胀预期的集中押注：债券吸引⼒下降，⽽股票被视为更有效的对冲
⼯具。然⽽，这场资⾦⼤迁徙也意味着富裕群体的流动性缓冲已被⼤幅压缩。
问题的核⼼在于，美国消费⽀出在相当程度上依赖最富裕群体的⽀撑。⼀旦股市承压，这批⼈

可能率先收紧钱包，进⽽波及整体消费数据，并将标普 500 指数推向更危险的境地 —— ⼀个更加
依赖⼈⼯智能叙事、⽽⾮真实现⾦流⽀撑的脆弱格局。
"K 型经济 " 隐忧：富⼈消费若熄⽕
美国银⾏调查揭⽰，富裕个⼈对债券的配置已降⾄有记录以来的最低点，机构投资者的债券配
置则创四年新低。在通胀预期上升的环境下，债券的吸引⼒明显减退，持有⼤量现⾦同样⽆法
对冲购买⼒侵蚀。
相⽐之下，股票提供了⼀种相对有效的通胀缓冲 —— ⽆论是在需求旺盛推动物价上涨的情境
下，还是在消费者能够承受更⾼价格的情境下，企业收⼊和盈利均有望保持韧性。这⼀逻辑推
动资⾦持续向权益类资产集中。
然⽽，这种配置转移是⼀把双刃剑。当投资者⼿中的现⾦储备已近耗尽，市场在⾯对冲击时的
缓冲空间也随之收窄。机构和富裕个⼈的仓位均已⾼度集中，留给进⼀步加仓的余地极为有
限。
美国经济⻓期呈现所谓 "K 型 " 分化特征：富裕群体消费强劲，⽀撑起整体消费数据的光鲜，⽽普
通⺠众的实际感受却远不如统计数字所呈现的那般乐观。正因如此，顶层消费者的动向对宏观

经济⾛势具有超⽐例的影响⼒。
美国银⾏调查所揭⽰的⻛险在于：若股市出现较⼤幅度回撤，这批原本撑起消费的富裕⼈群可
能随之压缩⽀出，使美国消费端承压。届时，消费品、服务业乃⾄汽⻋等⼤宗消费品领域的上
市公司，将在双重压⼒下⾸当其冲 —— 既⾯临销售端的萎缩，也⾯临市场对其现⾦流定价的重
新审视。
AI 叙事主导，市场韧性存疑
在这⼀脆弱的市场结构中，英伟达即将发布的财报是近期最值得关注的催化剂。市值约 5.4 万亿
美元的英伟达⽬前是全球市值最⾼的上市公司，众多⼤型科技企业的前景与其业绩⾼度挂钩，
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 181 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
103 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
使该财报的市场影响⼒远超⼀家公司本⾝。
以英伟达为核⼼的 " 科技七巨头 " ⽬前占标普 500 总市值约三分之⼀。这种⾼度集中的格局意味
着，指数的涨跌在很⼤程度上取决于少数⼏家公司的表现，市场抵御⻛险的⼴度相当有限。
若富裕消费者因股市下跌⽽收紧⽀出，最直接受损的将是那些依赖真实现⾦流⽀撑估值的公司
—— 消费品、零售和服务类企业。相⽐之下，以 AI 为核⼼叙事的科技公司，其价值更多建⽴在
对远期增⻓的想象之上，短期现⾦流并⾮估值的主要锚点。
这种结构性偏斜将使标普 500 指数对 AI 叙事的依赖进⼀步加深，令这场涨势愈发脆弱。投资者或
许已对 " 派对将尽 " 的警⽰声感到疲倦，但他们持续涌⼊股市的⾏为本⾝，恰恰说明那些⼿握真⾦
⽩银的⼈已⼏乎全部押注于此 —— ⽽这，正是最值得警惕的信号。

请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 182 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
美银证券将⽇元评级从看跌上调⾄中性，并将美元兑⽇元 2026 年底预测从 157 下调⾄ 152 。
策略师 Yamada 点明三⼤看多触发器：美元兑⽇元升破 160 引发政策⼲预、 10 年期⽇债收益
率逼近 3% 、布油跌破 90 美元。与此同时，⽇本当局疑似已动⽤约 10 万亿⽇元护盘，⽇元中
期反转的棋局，正悄然落⼦。
摘要：
美银证券将⽇元评级从看跌上调⾄中性，并指出三个潜在催化剂，⼀旦触发，可能推动其转为
明确看多。这⼀⽴场调整发⽣在⽇元再度逼近 160 关⼝之际，显⽰部分华尔街机构开始重新审视
⽇元的中期⾛势。
美银策略师 Shusuke Yamada 在周⼆发布的报告中将美元兑⽇元 2026 年底预测从 157 下调⾄
152 ，理由是⽇元结构性资⾦流动状况正在改善，⽽其他主要货币也⾯临各⾃的脆弱性。

Yamada 指出，若要进⼀步转为明确看多，需要政策层⾯的转变，或市场压⼒⼤到⾜以迫使政策
转向。
⽇元虽然短期仍承压，但中期反转的条件正在积累。对于持有⽇元空头头⼨或布局⽇本资产的
投资者⽽⾔，三个催化剂的进展值得密切跟踪。
三⼤催化剂：触发看多的条件
Yamada 在报告中明确列出三个可能触发美银转为看多⽇元的条件。
其⼀，美元兑⽇元升⾄ 160 并触发政策应对。其⼆， 10 年期⽇本国债（ JGB ）收益率逼近 3% ，
推动国内实际利率上升，进⽽对⽇元形成⽀撑。其三，布伦特原油价格跌破每桶 90 美元，有助
于改善⽇本的贸易条件，缓解经常账⼾压⼒。
Yamada 表⽰，上述任何⼀个条件的实现，都可能在政策层⾯或市场层⾯形成⾜够强的信号，推
动⽇元⾛势逆转。
⽇元持续承压，⼲预规模或达 10 万亿⽇元
尽管美银上调评级，⽇元近期⾛势依然疲软，再度向 160 关⼝靠拢。据彭博报道，知情⼈⼠透
露，⽇本当局疑似⼲预⾏动于 4 ⽉ 30 ⽇启动。对⽇本央⾏账⼾的分析显⽰，⼲预⾏动延续⾄ 5 ⽉

初，规模可能⾼达约 10 万亿⽇元（约合 630 亿美元）。
Yamada 指出，⾃ 2024 年以来，⽇元持续⾛弱，与利率差的背离程度不断扩⼤，这⼀现象表明汇
率⾛势已受到利率以外因素的主导。
美银将评级上调的核⼼依据之⼀，是⽇元结构性资⾦流动状况的改善。 Yamada 在报告中提
到，" ⽇元资⾦流动动态改善、银⾏贷款与存款缺⼝收窄，以及实际利率上升 " ，有望在财政担忧
⻅顶后，使国内收益率上升开始对⽇元形成实质⽀撑。
此外， Yamada 还指出，⽇本股市相对于美国和欧洲同类市场的表现持续占优，这⼀趋势有助于
吸引资本流⼊⽇本，从基本⾯层⾯为⽇元提供⽀撑。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 183 =====

75 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

===== Page 184 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
为了构建健康的⽹络⽣态，保障良好的使⽤环境，贯彻落实清朗系列专项整治部署会要求，即
⽇起，华尔街⻅闻将开展商业⽹站平台和 “ ⾃媒体 ” 违规采编发布财经类信息专项整治⾏动。
在专项整治中，华尔街⻅闻将重点打击 8 类违规问题：
华尔街⻅闻已在⽹站和 APP 显著位置设置专项举报⼊⼝，接受全体⽤⼾监督。
任何个⼈和组织有权对危害⽹络安全的⾏为向我们举报，举报⽅式如下：
营造良好⽹上舆论环境，需要各社会主体的共同参与。华尔街⻅闻将进⼀步健全管理机制，持
续提升管理能⼒，以优质内容服务⽤⼾。同时，也将通过⽤⼾举报、技术审核、⼈⼯巡查等⽅
式，进⼀步加强平台治理成效。欢迎⼴⼤⽹友进⾏监督、提供更多线索，帮助我们发现违规⾏
为。
⼀是胡评妄议、歪曲解读我财经⽅针政策、宏观经济数据，恶意唱空我⾦融市场、唱衰中国经济

等；
⼆是毫⽆⽴场、不加判断地转载搬运境外歪曲解读我财经领域热点的报道评论等；
三是散布 “ ⼩道消息 ” ，以所谓 “ 揭秘 ”“ 重磅 ”“ 独家爆料 ”“ 知情⼈⼠称 ” 为名进⾏渲染炒作，甚⾄造谣
传谣；
四是转载合规稿源财经新闻信息时，恶意篡改、断章取义、⽚⾯曲解等 “ 标题党 ” ⾏为；
五是充当⾦融 “ ⿊嘴 ” ，恶意唱空或哄抬个股价格，炒作区域楼市波动，扰乱正常市场秩序；
六是炒作负⾯信息对相关利益主体进⾏威胁恐吓、敲诈勒索，谋取⾮法利益；
七是炒作社会恶性事件、负⾯极端事件，煽动悲情、焦虑、恐慌等情绪，借以推销所谓 “ 财商
课 ” 、各类保险产品等；
⼋是未严格履⾏⾝份认证程序，冒⽤滥⽤财经主管部⻔⼯作⼈员或专家学者等名义开办财经专
栏、账号等。
1 、⼯作⽇举报电话 021-60675200 ，接听时间：周⼀到周五 9:30-11:30 ， 13:00-18:30
2 、专项举报⻚⾯：点击这⾥
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 185 =====

4807 收藏 分享到 :
限免

===== Page 186 =====

共同维护企业和企业家⽹络合法权益。
摘要：
为了规范受理和处置涉企虚假不实信息的举报⼯作，更好地维护企业和企业家的⽹络合法权
益，华尔街⻅闻上线了 “ 涉企虚假不实信息举报专区 ” ，欢迎⼴⼤⽹⺠和企业据实提供举报线索。
受理范围如下：
（⼀）混淆企业主体⾝份的仿冒性信息；
（⼆）影响公众公正评判的误导性信息；
（三）不符合企业客观实际的谣⾔性信息；
（四）贬损丑化企业或企业家的侮辱性信息；
（五）侵害企业家个⼈隐私的泄密性信息；
（六）其他恶意⼲扰企业正常经营发展的信息。
受理条件如下：
（⼀）提交能够充分陈述举报事项、阐明举报理由的⽂字举报；
（⼆）提交企业营业执照、组织机构代码证或企业家⾝份证明等权利主体资格证明材料；如委
托举报的，需提供举报代理⼈⾝份证明和授权委托书；
（三）提交举报⼈姓名、联系⽅式；
（四）提交请求采取必要措施的具体⽹络地址或者⾜以准确定位侵权内容的相关信息；
（五）提交能够证明举报内容侵权的初步证据材料；
（六）提交申明举报真实性、合法性的⽂字保证。
举报⽅式如下：

1 、⼯作⽇举报电话 021-60675200 ，接听时间：周⼀到周五 9:30-11:30 ， 13:00-18:30 ；
2 、举报邮箱 contact@wallstreetcn.com
举报处置流程如下：
1 、收到举报电话或者举报邮件后，根据举报的内容以及举报⼈提供的相关材料，综合考虑涉企
⽹络侵权信息的严重程度、频次、舆论影响以及社会危害程度等因素，按照宽严相济统⼀标准
的原则，分级分类、规范准确处置涉企⽹络侵息举报。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

===== Page 187 =====

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
1306 收藏 分享到 :
2 、对于举报的信息，第⼀时间反馈给上级领导或相关部⻔，及时核查，如事实清楚、举证充分
的涉企⽹络侵权信息举报，我们将对涉企虚假不实信息采取删除、屏蔽、断开链接等处置措
施，对违法账号采取警⽰教育、暂停更新、限制发布、限时封禁或永久封禁直⾄关闭等处置措
施。
3 、被举报主体对处置措施提出异议的，⽹站平台应当要求被举报主体提供不侵权的相关证明，
并依据双⽅举证综合判断、视情处置。
4 、处理完毕向举报⼈反馈处置结果。
5 、对于伪造证明举报、灌⽔举报等恶意举报的，平台拒绝处理。
为了共同营造⼀个良好的⽹上舆论环境，我们需要社会各界的积极参与。华尔街⻅闻将积极按
照涉企虚假不实信息举报规范的要求，认真受理并妥善处置所有举报，我们会通过⽤⼾举报、
技术审核、⼈⼯巡查等多种⽅式，进⼀步加强平台治理的效果，以确保我们的平台成为⼀个诚

信、透明、安全的信息交流空间。
限免

## 037_Wells_Fargo_(Indicators)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

Economics
March 13, 2026
Signs of Caution in January Consumer Spending Even Ahead of Iran Conflict
Economic Indicator
Economist(s)
Tim Quinlan
Shannon Grein
The January personal income and spending data feel even more dated in the wake of the ongoing conflict in Iran. Consumer spending momentumcontinued at the start of the year, but a modest pullback in discretionary services categories of spending signals some signs of caution among consumers,even ahead of the recent oil-price shock.

Strong growth in wages & salaries in January was an encouraging sign, and together with the annual social security cost-of-living adjustment, helped propelreal disposable income growth, or purchasing power of households, to grow at the fastest monthly pace in about three years.
The modest 0.1% gain in real spending combined with some modest downward revisions to Q4 real personal consumption expenditures growth suggestsreal spending is tracking at a slower annualized clip (~1.5%) than we currently have forecast (1.9%) in Q1.

Consumer inflation remained contained at the start of the year. But the ongoing conflict in Iran is likely to dent households' purchasing power in comingmonths amid higher gasoline prices, and we've marked down our consumer spending forecast in our recent update as a result.
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics

===== Page 2 =====

Pop in Wages, but Signs of Caution in Spending
As markets remain keenly focused on the conflict in Iran and potential domestic impact, the January personal income & spending data feel even further out ofdate. They're still important in terms of monitoring the state of the consumer, and show households entered the year with fairly sturdy spending momentum.But under the surface a renewed slowing in discretionary spending suggests some cautious behavior among households, even ahead of the recent oil-priceshock.

Real personal spending rose 0.1% as goods spending slipped (0.4%) and services consumption expanded (0.3%). At first pass, the fastest pace of servicesspending in four months is encouraging and signals resilience despite the weaker retail sales print last week.
While that remains true, the main discretionary services components (transportation services, recreation services and food services & accommodation) allslowed during the month. As we can see in the nearby chart, the broader pace of annual discretionary spending has broken lower in recent months andsignals some cautious behavior among households.

Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics
The 0.4% gain in personal income came in how we anticipated for total growth, but the details suggest income was a bit sturdier than we anticipated (chart).That's because most of the growth stems from a 0.5% gain in wages & salaries, or the largest monthly gain in four months, rather than solely resting on theannual cost-of-living adjustment (COLA) to social security benefits. Together these two components propelled total real disposable personal income growth, orhousehold purchasing power, to rise at its fastest monthly clip in three years, up 0.7%.

There was little surprise on the inflation side. The core PCE deflator rose 0.4%, lifting the annual rate of inflation a tenth to 3.1% (chart). With the ConsumerPrice Index in for February and the ongoing conflict in Iran, these data feel stale as we brace for some upside to inflation in the coming months.
In addition to today's personal income & spending report, we got the second estimate of fourth-quarter GDP growth, which sliced the fourth-quarter GDP figurein half—a 0.7% annualized clip, versus 1.4% previously estimated. The downward revisions stemmed from lower services exports, softer structuresinvestment, and weaker consumer services spending. The modest real spending data for January, combined with downward revisions to Q4 spending,suggest some modest downside risk to our estimate of a 1.9% annualized rate of real personal consumption expenditure (PCE) growth in Q1 and suggestPCE is tracking closer to about 1.5%.

===== Page 3 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo Securities

Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics
Higher gasoline prices in the wake of the conflict in Iran will likely exert some modest downward pressure on household purchasing power in coming months.In a recent note, we highlight how gasoline and even broader energy-related purchases make up a smaller share of household spending today than they oncedid. But even so, we've marked down our consumer spending forecast in our recent update as a result and expect a slower pace of spending this year.

===== Page 4 =====

Canada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE

## 038_Wells_Fargo_(International_Outlook)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

Economics
May 15, 2026
International Economic Outlook: May 2026Policy Caught Between Inflation and Growth
Monthly
Economist(s)
Aroop Chatterjee
Azhin Abdulkarim
Summary
Geopolitics and energy risk remain unresolved. The US–Iran ceasefire is fragile, diplomacy is stalled and shipping through Hormuz is still down morethan 90%, keeping uncertainty elevated and preserving upside risks to energy prices.
This is a historic physical supply shock. The effective closure of Hormuz has removed 12.8 mbpd of oil supply, driven a rapid global inventorydrawdown, and exposed how thin true buffer stocks really are, with refined product inventories now near critically low days‐of‐supply levels outside theMiddle East.

Oil prices are behaving as history would suggest. Past shocks of similar scale show oil price increases not only persist but often intensify over time, withgains on average nearly doubling over a 12‐month horizon.
Inflation pressures are broadening from energy outward. CPI upside has been led by energy so far, but supply bottlenecks now span metals, fertilizersand industrial inputs, raising the risk of spillovers into food, core goods and services via second‐round effects that may be stronger than in prior cycles.

We see higher inflation and lower growth than consensus. Despite some upward revisions, markets still underestimate inflation upside given the scaleof the shock and limited fiscal buffers, while growth risks are most acute for energy importers such as Europe, Japan, China and parts of EM Asia.
Policy risks are skewed toward tighter for longer. Major central banks are increasingly constrained by inflation persistence, with the Eurozone, UK andJapan facing stagflationary tradeoffs, Canada biased toward renewed hiking, Australia for a cycle extension and EMs turning cautious as inflationexpectations need re‐anchoring.

Figure 1

===== Page 2 =====

Source: International Energy Agency, S&P Global and Wells Fargo Economics
Table of Contents
I. Key Themes
II. Advanced Economies
III. Emerging Markets
IV. Economic Forecasts
V. Interest Rate Forecasts
Key Themes
The US‐Iran ceasefire continues to muddle along, marked by sporadic hostilities and little meaningful progress toward a broader peace deal.Washington and Tehran remain far apart on core issues and political pressure does not yet appear to be approaching levels that would force a compromise.More importantly for markets, shipping through the Strait of Hormuz remains severely disrupted, with transit volumes still more than 90% below pre‐warlevels. Recent US efforts to enforce naval control and freedom of navigation have instead reduced traffic and heightened risks for commercial shipping, asreflected in the surge in attacks. Against this backdrop, uncertainty around the future operating environment for the Hormuz and the wider region remainselevated. We therefore see persistent upside risks to energy prices over both the near and medium term.

The implications of the US-Iran war are still being digested from a macro and policy perspective. The closure of the Strait of Hormuz has resulted inthe largest disruption in modern history with 12.8 mbpd of supply lost, per International Energy Agency (IEA) estimates (Fig 2). Crude oil demand has fallenbut less significantly leading to substantial reduction in global observed inventories. Data from IEA and S&P Global suggest that oil inventories are downroughly 250–300 million barrels from pre-war levels. Although global observed inventories are about 8 billion barrels, these have been declining rapidly,given the muted demand-side response thus far (Fig 1). We note that true buffer stock is only about 10% of total with the remainder needed for logisticaland strategic needs. Inventories of refined products have fallen sharply with global levels consistent with roughly 45 days of supply for gasoline, diesel andjet fuel. Moreover, inventory levels sharply vary across regions and countries with a glut in the Middle East given supply bottlenecks and sharper declineselsewhere. As such, physical supply constraints are likely to become an issue for key economies particularly in Asia and Europe into June.

The oil price response has largely been in line with past historical supply shocks. Figure 3 maps out the relationship between change in oil pricesover 2 months after a supply shock since the 1970s with the size of the supply loss (as a percent of total). Significantly, the oil price response tends topersist with the move almost doubling on average over 12 months. In the current episode, this persistence is likely reinforced by an already tight supply-demand balance and a near-term outlook that points to further deterioration.

Figure 2

===== Page 3 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 3

===== Page 4 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
The move higher in inflation has been felt globally but largely driven by energy components thus far. The full set of March readings indicate that theenergy components (transportation, fuels, etc.) were largely responsible for the acceleration in monthly CPI (Fig 4). We expect April readings to show asimilar dynamic along with some signs of broadening to other categories. As we noted in our April Monthly, the supply bottleneck affects a broader range ofcommodities such as natural gas, aluminum, urea, sulfur and helium, with varying lead times in terms of their economic impacts. Prices for thesecommodities have surged recently with additional gains the longer that disruptions persist (Fig 5). Inflationary effects are likely to broaden over time affectingfood and core goods categories via direct and indirect effects and services prices via broader pass-through. Moreover, indirect and second-round effects arelikely to be higher than in the past given the 2022–23 inflation surge experience following Russia's invasion of Ukraine.

Figure 4
Source: Haver, Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 5

===== Page 5 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
Our forecast for 2026 global inflation at 4.5%, sits higher than consensus (at 4%), whereas our forecast for 2026 global GDP growth at 2.6% iswell below (at 3%). Consensus Inflation forecasts have adjusted higher in recent weeks, but this has been less significant than the 2022 episode,particularly after accounting for the larger supply shock (Fig 6). Although more benign starting conditions contain the inflation response, the larger size andbreadth of the supply shock and lower fiscal buffers to offset imply greater inflation upside, in our view. We expect higher year-end inflation than theconsensus for most of the major economies (Fig 7).

Figure 6

===== Page 6 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 7

===== Page 7 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
In contrast, consensus growth forecasts have been worked down more aggressively in aggregate (Fig 8) but even here we are more pessimistic with lowergrowth forecasts for energy importer economies. In particular, we are more bearish than consensus in terms of our forecast for Japan, Eurozone and UKgrowth among Advanced economies, and China and India growth among EMs, whereas we are more constructive on net energy exporters such as Australiaand Canada (Fig 9).

Figure 8
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 9

===== Page 8 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
Advanced Economies
Eurozone: The macro-outlook has shifted decisively toward a stagflationary configuration. Growth momentum has softened materially since the start of theyear, with activity indicators now consistent with near-stall speed and services bearing the brunt of the slowdown. At the same time, the energy shock linkedto the Middle East war has reintroduced persistent inflation risks, as higher oil and gas prices push up headline inflation, tighten supply conditions and raisethe risk of second‐round effects via services prices, wages and FX pass-through. Against this backdrop, the European Central Bank (ECB) leaned heavilyon optionality at its April meeting, but it is increasingly clear that a June hike has become the central case even if geopolitical tensions do not escalatefurther. The ECB’s consumer expectations survey showed a sharp rise in inflation expectations, to around 4% from 2.5% over both the next 12 months andthe three‐year horizon. With the direct effects of higher energy prices already evident in the data, policymakers will be watching closely for signs of indirectand second‐round effects in upcoming releases. The June meeting will bring an updated set of forecasts, which should better capture the evolving energyshock. Our base case remains two 25 bps hikes this year, starting in June and taking the Deposit Rate to 2.50% by end‐2026, with risks skewed towardadditional tightening if energy prices remain elevated and inflation expectations continue to drift higher.

Japan: The Bank of Japan (BoJ) delivered a hawkish hold in its April meeting, underscoring that the policy debate has shifted from whether to hike to howsoon, even as the macro backdrop has become more complicated. The BoJ is increasingly concerned that the war-driven energy shock could generatestagflation‐like dynamics, with broader price pass-through and second‐round effects posing upside risks to underlying inflation, while growth faces mountingheadwinds from a worsening terms‐of‐trade shock. The revised forecasts reflect this tension, with materially lower growth and persistently higher coreinflation, pushing convergence to target further out. Policy risks now look incredibly two‐sided, making the timing of the next rate increase less certain, butthe overall direction remains clear. Even if liftoff slips into Q3, the likelihood of a more extended hiking cycle has risen, with the BoJ increasingly reactive todata and markets and the risk growing that policy falls behind the curve as inflation proves more durable than what their baseline assumes.

Canada: The Bank of Canada (BoC) highlighted increasingly two‐sided risks to its outlook, with higher energy prices posing upside inflation risks and thepotential for further US trade restrictions weighing on growth. The April meeting served as a reaction function update, signaling that if energy prices remainelevated and trade tensions with the US do not materially escalate, the BoC is prepared to hike to prevent inflation pressures from becoming entrenched.Even under a baseline of no agreement, we see the July 1 USMCA deadline as less of a cliff edge, as the framework remains in force under its 10‐yearsunset with annual reviews. This sustains trade uncertainty rather than triggering sharply higher tariffs, limiting the case for a dovish pivot. As a result, theBoC’s focus is likely to shift toward inflation risks rather than growth concerns. Growth remains soft but resilient, helping stabilize labor markets amid anegative labor supply shock from adverse net migration. Higher energy prices are likely to absorb remaining domestic slack and reintroduce risks aroundinflation persistence and expectations, even as the Bank avoids overreacting to what may still prove to be a relative price shock. Our baseline is for thepolicy rate to remain on hold through mid‐year, with a 25 bps hike in July and an additional 25 bps increase in Q4, most likely in October.

UK: The balance of risks around inflation has shifted to the upside and growth to the downside, as highlighted in the Bank of England’s (BoE) Aprilmonetary policy decision. While the decision itself was for a hold, the Monetary Policy Committee (MPC) characterized it as an “active hold,” with a focus oninflation persistence and leaning against second-round effects. Initial conditions in the UK provide some policy flexibility as monetary policy was alreadyrestrictive and at the top of the BoE’s estimate of neutral, while inflation had eased, demand was soft and the labor market subdued. However, that flexibilitymay prove limited. Rising fertilizer prices and persistently high energy costs raise the risk of indirect effects and increase the cost of delaying action. Thisshock follows several years of above-target inflation, which may amplify pass-through. Survey evidence suggests firms intend to pass higher costs on toconsumers as margins remain under pressure, even in a restrictive policy environment. We have therefore revised our Bank Rate forecast to include two

===== Page 9 =====

hikes this year, one in Q3 and one in Q4, with July the most likely timing for the first move, taking the policy rate to a terminal level of 4.25% before easingnext year. We recognize that uncertainty remains high and tied to developments in the Middle East, yet even with a rapid resolution, at least one hike maybe required to prevent inflation pressures from becoming entrenched.
Australia: Prior to the war in the Middle East, inflation was already well above target and the Reserve Bank of Australia (RBA) was expected to raise rates,with little scope to look through the shock. The post-war rise in energy prices has further lifted inflation, which is forecast to remain above the 2-3% target forsome time, with material upside risks to second-round inflation and expectations. Risks to growth and employment skew to the downside, as higher energyprices are expected to slow household consumption while weaker activity weighs on labor demand. Recent surveys amplify concerns around second-roundinflation effects. Input costs have risen at the fastest pace in four years and final goods price growth has accelerated, showing broader pass-through toconsumers. Further, the 2026-2027 Federal Budget’s mildly expansionary stance complicates the path ahead for the RBA. Greater spending restraint wouldhave reduced aggregate demand and preserved more policy headroom. Instead, looser fiscal policy adds to the RBA’s pre-existing concerns of excessdemand and evolving global supply shocks. Against this backdrop, we expect one more rate hike in Q3, likely in August, taking the Cash Rate to 4.60%.Further tightening remains possible if the war persists and price pressures intensify.

Emerging Markets
Brazil: A more complex inflation backdrop implies greater caution from the Brazilian Central Bank (BCB) as it proceeds with its rate‐cutting cycle.Disinflation driven by last year’s aggressive tightening is now colliding with renewed external inflation pressures and lingering domestic fiscal risks.Economic activity has slowed, but resilience remains evident, with strong real wage gains and supportive fiscal policy continuing to underpin consumption.While the recent rise in inflation has been led by higher energy prices, both survey‐based and market‐based measures of inflation expectations have alsomoved higher at longer horizons, showing signs of de‐anchoring. We expect inflation pressures to broaden from energy into food and other goods prices inthe coming months. This backdrop is likely to increase pressure for more stimulative fiscal policy, particularly in an election year, limiting the extent ofdemand‐side adjustment and constraining the scope for monetary easing. As a result, we expect the BCB to proceed with the rate‐cutting cycle morecautiously than previously anticipated and now see fewer cuts over the remainder of 2026. While easing is still likely to extend into 2027, we expect a higherterminal rate, as policy decisions become increasingly driven by the evolving inflation outlook rather than growth conditions alone.

Mexico: The macro backdrop for 2H26 has deteriorated, with low trend growth colliding with elevated inflation, limited fiscal space, and fragile policycredibility. Activity weakened sharply in Q1, with GDP contracting and leading indicators pointing to early‐year momentum loss; any Q2 improvement is likelystabilization rather than a rebound. USMCA risks should persist, with the July 1 deadline extending trade uncertainty rather than posing a cliff edge. Inflationremains the binding constraint, with headline and core inflation at or above 4.5% year-over-year and upstream pressures likely to intensify as higher foodand energy prices feed through. Upside inflation risks leave Banxico’s prior dovish tilt increasingly untenable, explaining the decision to deliver a final cut inMay and end the easing cycle. Markets will now focus on the December replacement of Deputy Governor Heath; a technocratic appointment would helpanchor credibility, while a weaker choice risks weighing on the peso and pushing term premia higher despite weak growth.

China: The economy has outperformed expectations, largely driven by stronger manufacturing production, solid external trade performance andfront‐loaded fiscal stimulus. However, domestic demand remains uneven, with retail sales and property investment still weak, pointing to a soft underbellybeneath headline growth. Activity is likely to moderate in the second half of 2026 as the boost from fiscal stimulus fades and the drag from higher energyprices and tighter energy supply intensifies. China remains heavily dependent on the Middle East for both oil and gas, amplifying vulnerability to externalenergy shocks. The truce in the US–China trade dispute also remains fragile, and China’s export resilience via trade diversion risks provoking additionalprotectionist responses from key trading partners, particularly Europe. Inflation is now at an inflection point, with producer prices and the GDP deflator, thebroadest measure of economy‐wide prices, turning positive for the first time since 2022 and 2023, respectively. Against this backdrop, we expect growth toland toward the lower end of the official 4.5–5.0% target range. Firmer inflation dynamics are likely to keep policymakers on the sidelines, delayingmonetary easing through Reserve Requirement Ratio cuts until later in 2026 or possibly into 2027. Policy emphasis is instead likely to remain on targetedcredit support and the reorientation of fiscal policy, though room for maneuvering is increasingly constrained by a historically elevated budget deficit oncespecial bond issuance is taken into account.

Figure 10

===== Page 10 =====

Source: Individual Central Banks and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 11
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics

===== Page 11 =====

Source: International Monetary Fund and Wells Fargo Economics
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
FX Forecasts
For FX Forecasts, please refer to Wells Fargo Macro Strategy's Currency Cartography: Shock Therapy report (page 11).

===== Page 12 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo SecuritiesCanada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE

## 039_Wells_Fargo_(International_Reports)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

Economics
March 3, 2026
International
Downside Scenario: EM Vulnerabilities to a Sustained Geopolitical Shock
International Commentary
Economist(s)
Brendan McKenna
Our base case scenario for Middle East events is still for a short-lived disruption to the global economy and financial markets (Wells Fargo - The Conflictwith Iran: FAQ with the Team). But the downside scenario of a prolonged rise in geopolitical uncertainty and sustained markets volatility is increasingly morelikely and needs to be evaluated. We assess this elevated geopolitical uncertainty shock scenario for emerging market economies and financial marketsthrough a vulnerability lens.

Most EMs have reduced vulnerabilities to a sudden stop in capital flows, especially the systemically important countries (e.g., China and India). However, inthe event of a sudden stop, countries reliant on external financing with adverse sovereign debt profiles and inadequate FX reserves are most vulnerable.Those with elevated vulnerabilities can experience balance of payments crises, sharp economic slowdowns, or worse, sovereign default. Argentina andTurkey flag as most vulnerable, while Brazil and Mexico have only moderate vulnerability to a stop in capital flows.

A sustained geopolitical shock can be another test to the resilience of EM FX. Over the last few days, EM FX has come under broad pressure, but marketparticipants may show a renewed focus on fundamentals and valuations in a shock. Currencies associated with weak fundamentals and expensivevaluations can see a sharp reversal (e.g., COP, MXN and ZAR). Countries associated with stronger FX fundamentals and more attractive valuations (e.g.,TWD and KRW) can be more protected. At the same time, keep an eye on our framework's "max selloff" levels for whether a currency has become toomisaligned or is detached from underlying FX fundamentals. "Buying" or "hedging" opportunities may become available should those levels be breached.

A combined FX and inflation shock via elevated oil prices limits EM central banks' ability to cut policy rates further. Select central banks may still be able tocut as real interest rates are elevated and the shock hits less acutely (e.g., Brazil, albeit with less space). Others could see easing cycles end early asinflationary pressure builds from higher oil prices and FX pass-through, complicating already existing inflation pressures (e.g., Banxico). A few could restarttightening cycles even if growth prospects are damaged, as financial stability and containing inflation expectations becomes paramount (e.g., Reserve Bankof India).

Should an affordability shock ensue from markets volatility and/or higher non-discretionary expenditures governments may be limited in their ability torespond via fiscal support. Public finance positions are already weak across EM, except for a select few. For certain governments, rising oil prices cangenerate increased revenues, boost growth prospects and offer new space to offset affordability issues. Administrations will need to weigh that dynamicagainst already wide fiscal deficits and large debt burdens (e.g., Colombia). But should governments without fiscal headroom ignore public financelimitations sovereign bond markets may turn volatile, and financing issues could follow.

===== Page 2 =====

===== Page 3 =====

Economics Group

===== Page 4 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“WFBNA”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and the information contained inthis report is not financial research. WFBNA distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Wells Fargo & Company,Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo Securities Canada, Ltd. Wells FargoSecurities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National Futures Association. WellsFargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. All reports published bythe Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our public website. Clients may also receive our reports via thirdparty vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report are not maintained, controlled oroperated by WFBNA. WFBNA does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed on these websites do not necessarily represent those ofWFBNA.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE

## 040_Wells_Fargo_(Special_Reports)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

Economics
March 18, 2026
March FOMC: In the Right Place for Now
Special Commentary
Economist(s)
Tom Porcelli
Sarah House
Michael Pugliese
Optionality maintained. As expected, the FOMC left the fed funds rate unchanged at 3.50%-3.75% at its March meeting and was careful not to hint at thetiming of future adjustments. The statement reaffirmed the FOMC's view of "solid" growth and inflation that "remains somewhat elevated," but signaled alittle less confidence in the state of the labor market by noting that the unemployment rate "has been little changed" versus previously saying it has shown"some signs of stabilization."

Increased uncertainty was acknowledged head on in the statement and press conference. There is no doubt in our minds that the spike in oil prices isinflationary over the near term, but this is a supply shock, which monetary policy is ill-equipped to solve. The Fed also has to grapple with the growth-sapping effects of higher oil prices that add a fresh challenge to the already-struggling labor market (Figure 1).
Participants seemed hesitant to incorporate looming stagflation risks into the SEP. The median estimate for PCE inflation at year-end rose to 2.7%from 2.4% in December, less than what we were expecting with our own estimate tracking at 2.9%. The median core projection rose to 2.7%, perhapsreflecting some pass-through of higher energy costs, but more likely, in our view, stemming from the stubborn strength of recent readings that has left theindex up 3.1% over the past year (Figure 2). Meantime, the median estimate for GDP this year was revised up a tenth and the median unemployment ratewas unchanged. While this did not signal as much of a stagflationary shock as we expected, we note that participants flagged higher uncertainty aroundtheir estimates with risks skewed more toward higher inflation and unemployment than in the December SEP.

Wait-and-see mode kept the median view of rates this year unchanged. The median estimate of the fed funds rate at year-end remained at 3.375%,implying one 25 bps cut in 2026, while the median dot for 2027 held at 3.125% (Figure 3). The continued bias toward easing reflects that most Fed officialsstill view policy as slightly restrictive, even as the median long-run estimate drifted up a tenth to 3.1%.
The Committee looks a little less divided. No participants viewed a hike as appropriate this year, even as hawkish members have been voicing theirconcerns about inflation's prolonged overshoot from target these past five years. At the same time, Governor Waller voted in line with the Committee,making Governor Miran the lone dissenter. Yet even the lowest projection for the fed funds rate at year-end—presumably Governor Miran's—shifted up, andsuggests less dispersion among members' view at present.

Two more cuts this year remain our base case. We sympathize with the view that the labor market remains on a shaky footing. While the renewedinflation concerns generate risk to our call for the FOMC to cut again by June, we still look for two 25 bps cuts this year and acknowledge they just mightend up coming a little later (Figure 4). The inflationary effects of higher oil prices become visible more quickly than does the damage they inflict on growthand the labor market. So long as long-term inflation expectations stay anchored, we believe the Fed could still move the fed funds rate further towardneutral in the second half of the year.

Reserve management purchases (RMPs) continue at their current $40B monthly pace. The Fed did not announce plans to reduce RMPs as we wereexpecting. Yet given the recent reduction in funding pressures, we suspect a slowdown to around a $20-25B monthly pace has merely been delayed and islikely to be announced at the Fed's April meeting and begin mid-May.
Figure 1

===== Page 2 =====

Source: U.S. Department of Labor and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 2
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics

===== Page 3 =====

Figure 3
Source: Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 4

===== Page 4 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo SecuritiesCanada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE
Source: Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics

## 041_Wells_Fargo_(Us_Outlook)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

Economics
May 13, 2026
U.S. Economic Outlook: May 2026Growth Holds Firm as Oil Pushed Inflation Higher, Delays Fed Cuts
Monthly
Key Themes
GDP Remains on an Upward Trajectory: The 2.0% quarterly annualized pace of real GDP in Q1 showed a generally sturdy pace of expansion ahead ofthe Iran war. The quarterly rise largely reflected resilient (though moderating) consumer spending and strong AI-related investment. Despite recent volatilityand renewed geopolitical and trade uncertainty, the initial read on incoming data for Q2 suggests growth has not materially deviated off this path.

AI Capex and Fiscal Shock Absorbers. Looking ahead, fiscal stimulus should help negate the impact of higher oil prices on the household sector, allowingfor a steady pace of consumer spending this year. Meantime, AI-related business investment appears to be accelerating, which should provide an offset totepid investment in interest rate sensitive sectors such as nonresidential and residential construction.
Inflation Pressure Lies Ahead. We have slightly pushed up our forecasts for both headline and core PCE inflation. In terms of the headline, higher oilprices are exerting upward pressure on energy prices, with knock-on effects on food inflation likely in train. Meanwhile, core inflation is likely to experiencecost-push pressure related to the AI buildout. A moderating trend in shelter costs and fading tariff impacts seem likely to provide a disinflationarycounterweight. Still, we now expect core PCE inflation to peak at 3.5% in Q2 and end the year at 3.1%, modestly higher than our March forecast.

Labor Market Stable Within No Hire/No Fire Context. The recent string of monthly job gains and continued low readings on initial jobless claims indicatesthat the labor market is not spiraling downward. Beneath the surface, however, conditions are far from ideal. Low hiring rates and moderating wage growthcontinue to signal sluggish demand for new workers. In our view, there are not many catalysts for a meaningful pickup in labor demand on the near-termhorizon, with delayed monetary easing, heightened geopolitical uncertainty, and firms increasingly allocating capital toward AI. Thus, we continue toanticipate a modest pace of hiring in coming quarters and see nonfarm payrolls averaging 55K per month over the balance of the year. The moderate paceof job gains should coincide with the unemployment rate drifting up to 4.4% in Q3, where it is likely to hold through year‐end.

The Fed's Next Move Is a Cut. We are sticking with our call for additional monetary easing in 2026. Higher inflation in the wake of Iran war will continue toinstill a "wait and see" approach, however, we still view the balance of risks as tilted toward underlying weakness in the labor market, despite recent signs ofstabilization. As such, we continue to foresee 50 bps of reductions this year. We remain agnostic on the timing, however, are penciling in 25 bp cuts at boththe October and December FOMC meetings, somewhat later than our previous forecast.

U.S. Forecast Table
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Department of Labor, IHS Markit, Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics

===== Page 2 =====

Forecast Delta Table
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce, U.S. Department of Labor, IHS Markit, Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics
Sector Analysis
Personal Consumption Expenditures (PCE)
Consumer spending held up in the immediate wake of the Iran conflict, but there are early signs of some softening in consumption into the second quarter.
We have not materially adjusted our expectations for consumer spending and continue to anticipate real PCE to rise at an annual average pace of 2.0% thisyear. Higher tax refunds provided an immediate offset to higher gasoline costs, but high-frequency credit and debit card data suggest a pullback in broadspending in April. Real income growth excluding transfers also fell modestly negative in March. We expect higher prices to continue to erode already weakincome growth in coming months, resulting in lower purchasing power and a likely pullback in consumer spending in Q2.

Investment: Equipment, Intellectual Property Products and Inventories
Firms continue to priorize high-tech investment, which we still anticipate to be the main driver of capex spending this year.
Spending on software, R&D and information processing equipment surged in the first quarter, contributing 1.5 percentage points to Q1 growth—about two-thirds of total GDP expansion--as firms continue to invest in the high-tech transition. While we expect the AI-driven build out to continue to boost spending, wealso still see signs of a broadening out in manufacturing after years of delayed activity due to uncertainty around the pandemic, presidential election, rates,and tariffs. Higher energy costs add a new wrinkle, but we've seen the ISM manufacturing index turn positive, durable goods orders are broadening out, andC&I lending has picked up this year. We look for another double-digit growth rate for equipment investment in Q2.

===== Page 3 =====

Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics
Investment: Residential

===== Page 4 =====

We have made no major changes to the forecast and maintain our view that residential investment will remain a drag on growth over the next severalquarters.
Affordability remains a significant constraint for the residential sector. Over the past several weeks, mortgage rates have ticked higher on the back of the Iranwar and its potential effects on inflation and monetary policy. The recent leg-up in financing costs will likely keep home buying activity subdued. In terms ofresidential construction, building permits have generally trended lower so far this year, which points to a downshift in single-family construction as buildersrebalance inventory with more moderate sales. Multifamily activity may see a modest lift as financing costs ease and apartment conditions firm. Meanwhile,recent firming in building material store retail sales indicates that home improvement spending may be starting to recover, though continued low housingturnover and material inflation remain limitations.

Investment: Nonresidential Structures
We have not materially altered our outlook for nonresidential structures investment. There are pockets of growth, but overall spending remains weak.
Nonresidential construction is likely to remain in low gear this year. In addition to elevated interest rates constraining new project starts, higher energy priceshave introduced new cost pressures. We do see several pockets of growth ahead. Higher oil prices should support energy-related investment throughincreased drilling activity. At the same time, the AI-driven infrastructure buildout and reindustrialization efforts should underpin strong growth in data centers,power, and manufacturing projects. That noted, new commercial construction starts remain low so far this year, indicating that spending within thesecategories will remain subdued and keep total structures investment running at a slow speed.

Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics

===== Page 5 =====

Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics
Net Exports & Trade
International trade flows remain incredibly volatile month-to-month. We have not materially adjusted our outlook and continue to anticipate a modestwidening in the trade deficit over the course of the year.
Continued tariff uncertainty and a high-tech domestic investment prioritization are driving trade flows and causing volatile demand. Imports were strongthrough the first quarter and suggest a further widening in the trade deficit into Q2, but we will refine our estimate as the data comes in given recent volatility.U.S. Customs and Border Protection has started the IEEPA tariff refund process with money already on the way to businesses. We continue to anticipaterefunds will act as profit-margin protection for firms rather than have a stimulative effect on growth and expect the administration to try and re-implement tariffsin late July under other legislation once the current 10% universal tariff expires. Tariff rates should thus remain near current levels.

Labor Market
We made no material changes to our labor market forecast.
Recent data still point to a low‐hire, low‐fire labor market. Layoffs remain contained outside the tech sector, but there are few signs that demand for newworkers is improving with job openings continuing to move sideways and hiring announcements down from last year. Without stronger labor demand, lowlayoffs alone are unlikely to deliver a durable pickup in job creation. We expect nonfarm payroll growth to average around 55K per month over the balance ofthe year, compared to 76K the past four months. The more modest pace of job gains should coincide with the unemployment rate drifting up to 4.4% in Q3,where it is likely to hold through year‐end. With hiring subdued, we suspect compensation growth will cool a bit more and look for the ECI to subside to 3.3%year over year in Q2.

Inflation
We raised our inflation outlook modestly. We now look for core PCE inflation to end the year at 3.1% on a Q4-over-Q4 basis, up from 2.8% previously.
Higher energy prices are beginning to seep into other categories. Beyond prices at the pump, food inflation is set to strengthen later this year as transportationcosts and other agriculture-related input prices rise. Core inflation is also likely to run hot in the near term, led by airfares and high-tech goods related to the AIbuildout. These pressures should be partly offset by continued cooling in shelter costs and fading tariff‐related increases. But on net, we expect core PCEinflation to peak at 3.5% in Q2 and end the year at 3.1%, as disinflation outside housing has become harder to come by.

===== Page 6 =====

Source: U.S. Department of Labor and Wells Fargo Economics
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics
Fiscal Policy

===== Page 7 =====

We have modestly increased our budget deficit forecast to $1.95T in FY 2026 and $2.00T in FY 2027, up from $1.78 trillion in FY 2025.
We expect a wider federal budget deficit due to the combination of softer tariff revenues following the rollback of IEEPA tariffs, potential refund outflows tobusinesses, and a potential supplemental defense spending package tied to the ongoing Middle East conflict. While risks to more defense spending haverisen, any increase is likely to be relatively small and phased in over time, limiting the near-term impact in 2026. Section 122 tariff authority remains the keyswing factor, with refunds and lower ongoing revenues expected to drive a modest widening in the deficit in the near term. Overall, fiscal policy should notmaterially alter the outlook, and we expect Fed policy to continue to be the primary driver of rates.

Monetary Policy & Interest Rates
We have pushed our expectation for the Fed's next cut to Q4 and now look for the FOMC to lower its target range by 25 bps in October and December, stillfollowed by an extended hold at 3.00%-3.25%. Our year‐end 10‐year Treasury yield forecasts remain unchanged at 4.25% in 2026 and 4.30% in 2027.
The FOMC remains in wait‐and‐see mode. The labor market is resilient enough that policy easing is not urgent, especially with core inflation still running near3%. At the same time, growth has fallen short of warranting further tightening, and policymakers are unlikely to be seriously contemplating rate hikes. TheCommittee appears to retain a modest easing bias, though that bias is increasingly tenuous. If the labor market holds steady, energy prices remain elevated,and inflation fails to improve, the Fed could drift toward a more neutral stance. Still, we continue to see the next policy move as a cut, rather than a hike.

===== Page 8 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo SecuritiesCanada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE

## 042_Wells_Fargo_(Weekly_Commentary)_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

Economic Insights
U.S. and international economic
insights to help you manage risk
and seize business
opportunities
U.S.
Economic
Forecast
Access
historical,
current, and
forecasted
data on U.S.
economic
indicators as
they are
released by the
federal
government
Ask Our
Economists
Podcast
Timely
commentary
on what’s
happening in
the markets
Economic
Commentary
Access our
commentary
delivered to
your inbox

===== Page 2 =====

U.S. Tariff
Updates
Stay up-to-date
and access
current reports
and insight into
the U.S. tariffs
and global trade
What the
Supreme
Court ruling
means for
tariffs...and
what it
doesn’t
Court brief:
Supreme
Court IEEPA
tariff case
preview
Port authority:
Answering
questions on
the upcoming
Supreme
Court tariff
ruling
Special
Reports
Reports on
current events
affecting the
financial
markets, such as
Federal Reserve
meetings and
government
policies.
Read reports >
U.S.
Economic
Outlook
Commentary
and forecast
tables on the
international
economy and
foreign exchange
markets.
Read outlook >
Weekly
Economic
& Financial
Commentary
Insight into
current U.S. and
international
events that
affect the
economy and
financial
markets.
Read
com m entary >
and private
organizationsRead
 Listen
 Subscribe

Read our latest commentary

===== Page 3 =====

Economic
Indicators
Concise analysis
of U.S. economic
indicators as
they are released
by the federal
government and
private
organizations.
Read indicators >
International
Economic
Outlook
Commentary
and forecast
tables on the
international
economy and
foreign exchange
markets.
Read
com m entary >
International
Reports
Analysis of
economic
developments
around the world
and their impact
on financial
markets.
Learn m ore >
Related
Information
2026
economic
calendar
U.S. Tariff
Tracker
U.S. Tariff
Policy 101
Upcoming
indicator
releases
FOMC 101
Wells Fargo
international
economics
U.S. housing
forecast
Regional Reports
Economic analysis of
several regions in the
U.S., with a focus on state
economic output,
employment, and outlook
projections.
Learn m ore >
Real Estate and
Housing Reports
Commentary on
economic trends in
commercial real estate
and the housing market.
Read reports >
About Wells Fargo
Economics
Meet our experienced
economists.
M eet the team  >
The information contained in this web site reflects thoughts and opinions of Wells Fargo employees only, and the firm is not soliciting
any transaction based upon such information.
The contents of this web site are for informational purposes only and may not reflect current financial developments or market
conditions. You should not act or refrain from acting on the basis of any content included in this web site without seeking financial or
professional advice on the particular facts and circumstances at issue. Wells Fargo reserves the right to change any information
contained herein without prior notice. The firm is not responsible for any third-party content that may be accessed through this web
site. The distribution or photocopying of the firm information contained on or downloaded from this site is strictly prohibited without
the express written consent of Wells Fargo.

RO-4028667

===== Page 4 =====

LRC-1124

===== Page 5 =====

Economics
May 15, 2026
Economics Week Ahead
Weekly
Next week’s release of the April FOMC minutes will shed light on how members of the committee saw the Fed’s next move as balanced between a hike and acut. U.S. housing data, meanwhile, point to a moderating construction backdrop, as March’s rebound in starts likely overstated momentum amid a 2.6%year‐to‐date decline in permits and continued affordability pressures. In Canada, inflation remains elevated but mixed, with headline near 3.4% and softer coremeasures around 2.1–2.2%, keeping the Bank of Canada cautiously tilted toward further tightening. In the UK, easing labor market conditions—wage growthnear 3.8% and declining vacancies—contrast with still‐firm inflation around 3.0%+, leaving policy finely balanced. In China, growth remains uneven but steady,with industrial production near 5.9% and retail sales around 1.9%, as strong manufacturing offsets softer domestic demand and points to a gradual coolingahead.

United States:
FOMC Minutes (Wednesday), Housing Starts (Thursday)
G10 Economies:
Canada CPI (Monday), UK Labor Market Overview & CPI (Tuesday & Wednesday)
Emerging Markets:
China Retail Sales & Industrial Production (Monday)
Related Information:
U.S. Economic Forecast
FOMC 101
U.S. Tariff Tracker
U.S. Tariff Policy 101
2026 Economic Calendar
U.S. Week Ahead
FOMC Minutes • Wednesday

===== Page 6 =====

The minutes to the April 29 FOMC meeting will provide details on where the Committee stood just ahead of the leadership transition to Chair Warsh. Threevoters dissented to the easing bias maintained in April’s post-meeting statement (even as they agreed with the decision to keep the fed funds rateunchanged), highlighting growing discomfort with signaling cuts as the default next move.
We will be looking at the minutes to see the extent to which non-voters shared the view that the Fed’s next move is equally likely to be a hike as a cut.Heading into the April meeting, policymakers had received more favorable employment data but were seeing renewed risks to inflation, a dynamic that hassince intensified. This will make any discussion of the conditions that would warrant rate hikes more salient to the current policy outlook. At the same time, thedeparture of Governor Miran suggests the minutes may overstate the degree of dovish support on the Committee.

Even with a more hawkish tone likely to come through, we expect the minutes to indicate that most participants still favored holding rates steady for some timewhile they assess how the energy shock feeds through to inflation and the labor market.
(Return)
Source: Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics
Housing Starts • Thursday
Residential construction appears to be downshifting. Total housing starts rose strongly during March, with gains registered across both the single-family andmultifamily categories. Although the improvement is an encouraging sign activity is not contracting sharply, our sense is the monthly gain was mostly paybackfrom February's weather-related slowdown and vastly overstated the underlying moderating trend in new construction.

So far this year, building permits have trended lower and were down 2.6% on a year-to-date basis in March. The slowdown has been most apparent withinsingle-family, largely reflecting increased caution on the part of home builders stemming from ongoing buyer affordability challenges, soft new home sales, andelevated inventory levels. Multifamily permits have outperformed, which we attribute to firming apartment market conditions as well as a slightly lower cost ofcapital. Taking all of these factors into consideration, we expect housing starts declined to a 1,337K unit pace in April, lower than the current consensusestimate.

===== Page 7 =====

(Return)
G10 Week Ahead
Canada CPI • Monday
We expect headline inflation to rise another 0.9% month-over-month in April, following a similar print in March, lifting year-over-year inflation to 3.4%. Coremeasures, including trimmed mean and weighted median inflation, are likely to show a further month of softening, aided by favorable base effects. We look forboth trimmed mean and weighted median inflation to ease to 2.1% and 2.2% year-over-year, respectively. That said, April is likely to mark an inflection pointfor core inflation, with signs of underlying price pressures beginning to broaden. With headline inflation running well above the upper end of the Bank ofCanada’s target range and underlying inflation set to reaccelerate, we continue to expect the Bank of Canada (BoC) to hike rates at its July meeting. Thepolicy rate remains at the bottom of its estimated neutral range, and we expect downside risks to the BoC's outlook to diminish as the July 1 USMCA deadlinepasses without new tariffs, leaving the parties locked into a prolonged annual review process.

(Return)

===== Page 8 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
UK Labor Market Overview & CPI • Tuesday & Wednesday
U.K. labor and wage data on Tuesday and April CPI on Wednesday will give market participants a fresh read on wage dynamics and inflationary pressures asBank of England (BoE) policymakers weigh the appropriate response to an energy-driven price shock against a fundamentally weaker labor market. For thethree months to February, average weekly earnings growth eased to 3.8% year-over-year, marking the first sub-4% total pay reading since 2020. The broaderlabor market has continued to loosen gradually, with vacancies at 711K, the lowest since early 2021, and payrolled employees down 65K on the year in theMarch early estimate. Pay growth is expected to ease slightly further, though base effects and the recent National Living Wage uplift warrant attention.

Turning to prices, Wednesday’s release follows March’s upside surprise of 3.3% year-over-year, with services inflation at 4.5% and core at 3.1%. The BoE’sApril Monetary Policy Report projects headline CPI to ease to 3.0% year-over-year, largely reflecting base effects. Any new upward pressure from energyshowing up in the data would therefore require a closer look at the underlying components.
While 2026 public pay awards and the bulk of private sector wage settlements were largely completed before the energy shock and the labor market hasvisibly loosened, we still see risks to second-round effects skewed to the upside even if they do not show up via the wage channel this year. With energy andfertilizer prices still rising amid the ongoing conflict, the pass-through to core goods and food prices argues for a more pre-emptive stance, in our view. Assuch, and as noted in our May international outlook, we look for a 25 bps hike to 4.00% in July, with a further Q4 move to 4.25% contingent on Middle Eastdevelopments. `

===== Page 9 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
(Return)
EM Week Ahead
China Retail Sales & Industrial Production • Monday
Next week's retail sales and industrial production data for April will provide an early read on how China's economy fared at the beginning of the secondquarter. China's economy got off to a solid start in 2026, outperforming expectations, although growth has been somewhat uneven. Strength has been largelydriven by firmer manufacturing production, solid external trade performance and front-loaded fiscal stimulus, while domestic demand has remained relativelyweak. To that point, March activity data showed some stabilization, with industrial production growth firming to 5.7% year-over-year and retail sales growthrising to 1.7%. However, China's April PMIs suggest conditions may have softened at the start of Q2, as export-backed manufacturing resilience contrastedwith contractions in services and construction. As such, we expect both measures grew at a somewhat slower pace in April and look for year-over-yearindustrial production growth of 5.9% and retail sales growth of 1.9%.

Looking at the bigger picture, we expect recent strength in China's economy to gradually abate in the second half of 2026. The boost from fiscal stimulusshould fade over time, while higher energy prices and tighter energy supply could become more meaningful headwinds. Accordingly, we look for China'sannual GDP growth to ease to 4.5% in 2026, before slowing further to 4.3% in 2027.

===== Page 10 =====

Economist(s)
Tom Porcelli
Tim Quinlan
Sarah House
Aroop Chatterjee
Charlie Dougherty
Michael Pugliese
Jackie Benson
Shannon Grein
Nicole Cervi
Economics Group
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
(Return)

===== Page 11 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo SecuritiesCanada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE

===== Page 12 =====

Economics
May 15, 2026
Economics Week Ahead
Weekly
Next week’s release of the April FOMC minutes will shed light on how members of the committee saw the Fed’s next move as balanced between a hike and acut. U.S. housing data, meanwhile, point to a moderating construction backdrop, as March’s rebound in starts likely overstated momentum amid a 2.6%year‐to‐date decline in permits and continued affordability pressures. In Canada, inflation remains elevated but mixed, with headline near 3.4% and softer coremeasures around 2.1–2.2%, keeping the Bank of Canada cautiously tilted toward further tightening. In the UK, easing labor market conditions—wage growthnear 3.8% and declining vacancies—contrast with still‐firm inflation around 3.0%+, leaving policy finely balanced. In China, growth remains uneven but steady,with industrial production near 5.9% and retail sales around 1.9%, as strong manufacturing offsets softer domestic demand and points to a gradual coolingahead.

United States:
FOMC Minutes (Wednesday), Housing Starts (Thursday)
G10 Economies:
Canada CPI (Monday), UK Labor Market Overview & CPI (Tuesday & Wednesday)
Emerging Markets:
China Retail Sales & Industrial Production (Monday)
Related Information:
U.S. Economic Forecast
FOMC 101
U.S. Tariff Tracker
U.S. Tariff Policy 101
2026 Economic Calendar
U.S. Week Ahead
FOMC Minutes • Wednesday

===== Page 13 =====

The minutes to the April 29 FOMC meeting will provide details on where the Committee stood just ahead of the leadership transition to Chair Warsh. Threevoters dissented to the easing bias maintained in April’s post-meeting statement (even as they agreed with the decision to keep the fed funds rateunchanged), highlighting growing discomfort with signaling cuts as the default next move.
We will be looking at the minutes to see the extent to which non-voters shared the view that the Fed’s next move is equally likely to be a hike as a cut.Heading into the April meeting, policymakers had received more favorable employment data but were seeing renewed risks to inflation, a dynamic that hassince intensified. This will make any discussion of the conditions that would warrant rate hikes more salient to the current policy outlook. At the same time, thedeparture of Governor Miran suggests the minutes may overstate the degree of dovish support on the Committee.

Even with a more hawkish tone likely to come through, we expect the minutes to indicate that most participants still favored holding rates steady for some timewhile they assess how the energy shock feeds through to inflation and the labor market.
(Return)
Source: Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics
Housing Starts • Thursday
Residential construction appears to be downshifting. Total housing starts rose strongly during March, with gains registered across both the single-family andmultifamily categories. Although the improvement is an encouraging sign activity is not contracting sharply, our sense is the monthly gain was mostly paybackfrom February's weather-related slowdown and vastly overstated the underlying moderating trend in new construction.

So far this year, building permits have trended lower and were down 2.6% on a year-to-date basis in March. The slowdown has been most apparent withinsingle-family, largely reflecting increased caution on the part of home builders stemming from ongoing buyer affordability challenges, soft new home sales, andelevated inventory levels. Multifamily permits have outperformed, which we attribute to firming apartment market conditions as well as a slightly lower cost ofcapital. Taking all of these factors into consideration, we expect housing starts declined to a 1,337K unit pace in April, lower than the current consensusestimate.

===== Page 14 =====

(Return)
G10 Week Ahead
Canada CPI • Monday
We expect headline inflation to rise another 0.9% month-over-month in April, following a similar print in March, lifting year-over-year inflation to 3.4%. Coremeasures, including trimmed mean and weighted median inflation, are likely to show a further month of softening, aided by favorable base effects. We look forboth trimmed mean and weighted median inflation to ease to 2.1% and 2.2% year-over-year, respectively. That said, April is likely to mark an inflection pointfor core inflation, with signs of underlying price pressures beginning to broaden. With headline inflation running well above the upper end of the Bank ofCanada’s target range and underlying inflation set to reaccelerate, we continue to expect the Bank of Canada (BoC) to hike rates at its July meeting. Thepolicy rate remains at the bottom of its estimated neutral range, and we expect downside risks to the BoC's outlook to diminish as the July 1 USMCA deadlinepasses without new tariffs, leaving the parties locked into a prolonged annual review process.

(Return)

===== Page 15 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
UK Labor Market Overview & CPI • Tuesday & Wednesday
U.K. labor and wage data on Tuesday and April CPI on Wednesday will give market participants a fresh read on wage dynamics and inflationary pressures asBank of England (BoE) policymakers weigh the appropriate response to an energy-driven price shock against a fundamentally weaker labor market. For thethree months to February, average weekly earnings growth eased to 3.8% year-over-year, marking the first sub-4% total pay reading since 2020. The broaderlabor market has continued to loosen gradually, with vacancies at 711K, the lowest since early 2021, and payrolled employees down 65K on the year in theMarch early estimate. Pay growth is expected to ease slightly further, though base effects and the recent National Living Wage uplift warrant attention.

Turning to prices, Wednesday’s release follows March’s upside surprise of 3.3% year-over-year, with services inflation at 4.5% and core at 3.1%. The BoE’sApril Monetary Policy Report projects headline CPI to ease to 3.0% year-over-year, largely reflecting base effects. Any new upward pressure from energyshowing up in the data would therefore require a closer look at the underlying components.
While 2026 public pay awards and the bulk of private sector wage settlements were largely completed before the energy shock and the labor market hasvisibly loosened, we still see risks to second-round effects skewed to the upside even if they do not show up via the wage channel this year. With energy andfertilizer prices still rising amid the ongoing conflict, the pass-through to core goods and food prices argues for a more pre-emptive stance, in our view. Assuch, and as noted in our May international outlook, we look for a 25 bps hike to 4.00% in July, with a further Q4 move to 4.25% contingent on Middle Eastdevelopments. `

===== Page 16 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
(Return)
EM Week Ahead
China Retail Sales & Industrial Production • Monday
Next week's retail sales and industrial production data for April will provide an early read on how China's economy fared at the beginning of the secondquarter. China's economy got off to a solid start in 2026, outperforming expectations, although growth has been somewhat uneven. Strength has been largelydriven by firmer manufacturing production, solid external trade performance and front-loaded fiscal stimulus, while domestic demand has remained relativelyweak. To that point, March activity data showed some stabilization, with industrial production growth firming to 5.7% year-over-year and retail sales growthrising to 1.7%. However, China's April PMIs suggest conditions may have softened at the start of Q2, as export-backed manufacturing resilience contrastedwith contractions in services and construction. As such, we expect both measures grew at a somewhat slower pace in April and look for year-over-yearindustrial production growth of 5.9% and retail sales growth of 1.9%.

Looking at the bigger picture, we expect recent strength in China's economy to gradually abate in the second half of 2026. The boost from fiscal stimulusshould fade over time, while higher energy prices and tighter energy supply could become more meaningful headwinds. Accordingly, we look for China'sannual GDP growth to ease to 4.5% in 2026, before slowing further to 4.3% in 2027.

===== Page 17 =====

Economist(s)
Tom Porcelli
Tim Quinlan
Sarah House
Aroop Chatterjee
Charlie Dougherty
Michael Pugliese
Jackie Benson
Shannon Grein
Nicole Cervi
Economics Group
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
(Return)

===== Page 18 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo SecuritiesCanada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE

===== Page 19 =====

Economics
May 15, 2026
Economics Week Ahead
Weekly
Next week’s release of the April FOMC minutes will shed light on how members of the committee saw the Fed’s next move as balanced between a hike and acut. U.S. housing data, meanwhile, point to a moderating construction backdrop, as March’s rebound in starts likely overstated momentum amid a 2.6%year‐to‐date decline in permits and continued affordability pressures. In Canada, inflation remains elevated but mixed, with headline near 3.4% and softer coremeasures around 2.1–2.2%, keeping the Bank of Canada cautiously tilted toward further tightening. In the UK, easing labor market conditions—wage growthnear 3.8% and declining vacancies—contrast with still‐firm inflation around 3.0%+, leaving policy finely balanced. In China, growth remains uneven but steady,with industrial production near 5.9% and retail sales around 1.9%, as strong manufacturing offsets softer domestic demand and points to a gradual coolingahead.

United States:
FOMC Minutes (Wednesday), Housing Starts (Thursday)
G10 Economies:
Canada CPI (Monday), UK Labor Market Overview & CPI (Tuesday & Wednesday)
Emerging Markets:
China Retail Sales & Industrial Production (Monday)
Related Information:
U.S. Economic Forecast
FOMC 101
U.S. Tariff Tracker
U.S. Tariff Policy 101
2026 Economic Calendar
U.S. Week Ahead
FOMC Minutes • Wednesday

===== Page 20 =====

The minutes to the April 29 FOMC meeting will provide details on where the Committee stood just ahead of the leadership transition to Chair Warsh. Threevoters dissented to the easing bias maintained in April’s post-meeting statement (even as they agreed with the decision to keep the fed funds rateunchanged), highlighting growing discomfort with signaling cuts as the default next move.
We will be looking at the minutes to see the extent to which non-voters shared the view that the Fed’s next move is equally likely to be a hike as a cut.Heading into the April meeting, policymakers had received more favorable employment data but were seeing renewed risks to inflation, a dynamic that hassince intensified. This will make any discussion of the conditions that would warrant rate hikes more salient to the current policy outlook. At the same time, thedeparture of Governor Miran suggests the minutes may overstate the degree of dovish support on the Committee.

Even with a more hawkish tone likely to come through, we expect the minutes to indicate that most participants still favored holding rates steady for some timewhile they assess how the energy shock feeds through to inflation and the labor market.
(Return)
Source: Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics
Housing Starts • Thursday
Residential construction appears to be downshifting. Total housing starts rose strongly during March, with gains registered across both the single-family andmultifamily categories. Although the improvement is an encouraging sign activity is not contracting sharply, our sense is the monthly gain was mostly paybackfrom February's weather-related slowdown and vastly overstated the underlying moderating trend in new construction.

So far this year, building permits have trended lower and were down 2.6% on a year-to-date basis in March. The slowdown has been most apparent withinsingle-family, largely reflecting increased caution on the part of home builders stemming from ongoing buyer affordability challenges, soft new home sales, andelevated inventory levels. Multifamily permits have outperformed, which we attribute to firming apartment market conditions as well as a slightly lower cost ofcapital. Taking all of these factors into consideration, we expect housing starts declined to a 1,337K unit pace in April, lower than the current consensusestimate.

===== Page 21 =====

(Return)
G10 Week Ahead
Canada CPI • Monday
We expect headline inflation to rise another 0.9% month-over-month in April, following a similar print in March, lifting year-over-year inflation to 3.4%. Coremeasures, including trimmed mean and weighted median inflation, are likely to show a further month of softening, aided by favorable base effects. We look forboth trimmed mean and weighted median inflation to ease to 2.1% and 2.2% year-over-year, respectively. That said, April is likely to mark an inflection pointfor core inflation, with signs of underlying price pressures beginning to broaden. With headline inflation running well above the upper end of the Bank ofCanada’s target range and underlying inflation set to reaccelerate, we continue to expect the Bank of Canada (BoC) to hike rates at its July meeting. Thepolicy rate remains at the bottom of its estimated neutral range, and we expect downside risks to the BoC's outlook to diminish as the July 1 USMCA deadlinepasses without new tariffs, leaving the parties locked into a prolonged annual review process.

(Return)

===== Page 22 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
UK Labor Market Overview & CPI • Tuesday & Wednesday
U.K. labor and wage data on Tuesday and April CPI on Wednesday will give market participants a fresh read on wage dynamics and inflationary pressures asBank of England (BoE) policymakers weigh the appropriate response to an energy-driven price shock against a fundamentally weaker labor market. For thethree months to February, average weekly earnings growth eased to 3.8% year-over-year, marking the first sub-4% total pay reading since 2020. The broaderlabor market has continued to loosen gradually, with vacancies at 711K, the lowest since early 2021, and payrolled employees down 65K on the year in theMarch early estimate. Pay growth is expected to ease slightly further, though base effects and the recent National Living Wage uplift warrant attention.

Turning to prices, Wednesday’s release follows March’s upside surprise of 3.3% year-over-year, with services inflation at 4.5% and core at 3.1%. The BoE’sApril Monetary Policy Report projects headline CPI to ease to 3.0% year-over-year, largely reflecting base effects. Any new upward pressure from energyshowing up in the data would therefore require a closer look at the underlying components.
While 2026 public pay awards and the bulk of private sector wage settlements were largely completed before the energy shock and the labor market hasvisibly loosened, we still see risks to second-round effects skewed to the upside even if they do not show up via the wage channel this year. With energy andfertilizer prices still rising amid the ongoing conflict, the pass-through to core goods and food prices argues for a more pre-emptive stance, in our view. Assuch, and as noted in our May international outlook, we look for a 25 bps hike to 4.00% in July, with a further Q4 move to 4.25% contingent on Middle Eastdevelopments. `

===== Page 23 =====

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
(Return)
EM Week Ahead
China Retail Sales & Industrial Production • Monday
Next week's retail sales and industrial production data for April will provide an early read on how China's economy fared at the beginning of the secondquarter. China's economy got off to a solid start in 2026, outperforming expectations, although growth has been somewhat uneven. Strength has been largelydriven by firmer manufacturing production, solid external trade performance and front-loaded fiscal stimulus, while domestic demand has remained relativelyweak. To that point, March activity data showed some stabilization, with industrial production growth firming to 5.7% year-over-year and retail sales growthrising to 1.7%. However, China's April PMIs suggest conditions may have softened at the start of Q2, as export-backed manufacturing resilience contrastedwith contractions in services and construction. As such, we expect both measures grew at a somewhat slower pace in April and look for year-over-yearindustrial production growth of 5.9% and retail sales growth of 1.9%.

Looking at the bigger picture, we expect recent strength in China's economy to gradually abate in the second half of 2026. The boost from fiscal stimulusshould fade over time, while higher energy prices and tighter energy supply could become more meaningful headwinds. Accordingly, we look for China'sannual GDP growth to ease to 4.5% in 2026, before slowing further to 4.3% in 2027.

===== Page 24 =====

Economist(s)
Tom Porcelli
Tim Quinlan
Sarah House
Aroop Chatterjee
Charlie Dougherty
Michael Pugliese
Jackie Benson
Shannon Grein
Nicole Cervi
Economics Group
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P. and Wells Fargo Economics
(Return)

===== Page 25 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo SecuritiesCanada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE

## 043_Westpac_IQ_Merged

===== Page 1 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 2 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 3 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 4 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 5 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 6 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 7 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 8 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 9 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 10 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 11 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 12 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 13 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 14 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 15 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 16 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 17 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 18 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 19 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 20 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 21 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 22 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 23 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 24 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 25 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 26 =====

#fiscalpolicy #australia #aud #inflation #federalbudget
Expansionary impulse persists as states grapple with  th e sh ock
By Pat Bustamante
Senior Economist, Westpac
11:30 May 07 2026 Share
State budgets to deteriorate, with limited scope for further stimulus given an already
expansionary national fiscal impulse. Any redistribution of the positive income shock is best
delivered within the existing fiscal envelope.
The combined state budget position will deteriorate as the Middle East shock weighs on revenue

while lifting expenses, delaying the expected fiscal recovery by two years.

===== Page 27 =====

Prior to the escalation of the conflict in the Middle East, state and territory governments (the
‘states’) were projecting a steadily improving fiscal outlook. This was underpinned by an expected
recovery in private sector activity, continued strength in employment growth, and inflation easing back
towards the RBA’s 2.5% target.
The world has changed
State capital spending is easing as major infrastructure projects unwind, but net interest costs are

rising sharply. By FY2029, States are increasingly borrowing to service their interest bills, an
outcome that is likely to sharpen the focus on the need for fiscal consolidation.
The national fiscal impulse is slightly expansionary in FY2027, even before factoring
in additional policy support expected in upcoming state and federal budgets. This follows
a substantial fiscal expansion of around 3.5ppt of GDP over the three years to FY2026, comparable

in scale to the GFC. However, unlike past cycles, states drove a disproportionate share of this
expansion, especially early on.
With the fiscal impulse to be slightly expansionary in FY2027, there is only limited scope
for additional spending. As a net energy exporter, higher energy commodity prices will
unambiguously boost national income. While there is a case for governments to redistribute some of
these gains, a significant net addition to the fiscal impulse risks leaving policy more expansionary

than is consistent with returning inflation to target.

===== Page 28 =====

For governments preparing upcoming budgets, the Middle East conflict could not have come at
a worse time. Instead of a recovery in private sector activity, we now expect a sharp economic
slowdown as the recent re‐tightening in monetary conditions collides with a large global supply shock
centred on energy.
We expect the RBA to deliver two additional 25bp rate hikes beyond the 25bp increase in May, aimed
at preventing a sustained rise in inflation expectations. Against this backdrop, GDP growth is forecast

to slow to just 1%yr in 2026, the unemployment rate is expected to lift toward 5%, and trimmed mean
inflation is forecast to rise to around 4% by year‐end.
Our updated state‐based forecasts (see here) have economic activity, employment, and dwelling price
growth slowing abruptly in the consumer‐led states of NSW and Victoria, while conditions hold
up relatively better in the mining‐based economies of Queensland and WA. In NSW and
Victoria, year‐average growth in GSP is now expected to fall below 1% in FY2027, less than half the

rate we were forecasting in December 2025 (see here), with smaller downgrades elsewhere.
As a result, employment growth is expected to slow below population growth in NSW, Victoria, and
Tasmania, while remaining broadly in line with population growth in the mining states and SA. Dwelling
prices in NSW and Victoria are now forecast to effectively stagnate through 2026, down from around
5% growth expected late last year. This adjustment is already underway, with prices falling over the

quarter to April 2026 in both these states.
This shift in the outlook has significant implications for the states’ largest tax bases,
particularly payroll tax, stamp duty, and gambling taxes. While GST revenue is likely to receive a
near-term boost from stronger nominal spending, this will only partially offset the broader revenue drag.
If this wasn’t enough to deal with, the negative supply shock will increase the costs of delivering health,
education, and infrastructure services. Based on actual and expected input price increases, we

estimate infrastructure development costs of around 5% higher in FY2027 than expected prior to the
conflict. While smaller than the roughly 8-10% increase in costs we estimate for dwelling construction,
the impact remains material. We currently expect this to be a one‐off level shift in prices, with
construction cost growth expected to normalise by FY2028. However, the longer the conflict persists,
the greater the risk that elevated cost growth extends beyond FY2027.

Higher inflation will also lift non‐labour costs across health and education. This will feed into labour
costs through cost‐of‐living adjustments embedded in enterprise agreements. In addition, there’s a risk
of further spillover as workers try to protect real wages.
The result is a clear deterioration in state fiscal positions: weaker revenue growth alongside
rising expenses, even before governments consider new policy measures to support
households and businesses through this adverse supply shock.

Importantly, state governments are unlikely to benefit materially from commodity price windfalls, in

===== Page 29 =====

contrast to the Commonwealth. Even in the mining states, stronger royalty revenues are expected to
fall short of offsetting rising cost pressures. While higher energy prices will unambiguously lift national
income, the distribution of these gains will be highly uneven.
State fiscal drift looks set to continue
Based on Westpac Economics’ outlook, and our mapping of macro parameters to fiscal outcomes, we
estimate the combined state cash deficit will deteriorate by around $50bn over the five years to

FY2030.
The starting point for fiscal repair has also shifted. The turnaround in the combined cash balance is
now expected from FY2028, two years later than the FY2026 timing embedded in last year’s budget
updates.
This excludes both recently announced and prospective policy support for households and
businesses. Additional measures will place further pressure on fiscal positions. Victoria alone has
announced around $18bn in new policies, while the Federal Government has also provided support,

including via the fuel excise cut.
Despite the expected deterioration, risks remain skewed to the downside.
There is a degree of optimism embedded in these estimates. In part because we assume no change in

===== Page 30 =====

policy, recurrent spending per capita is assumed to stabilise over the forecast period, following a sharp
30% increase over the five years to FY2026. On current settings, this implies a decline in real services
per capita, an outcome that appears unlikely given recent budgets have been focused on expanding
public service delivery, particularly across housing, health and education.
If instead spending growth moderates only partially, to around 2.0% per annum from the 5% pace seen

over the past five years, recurrent expenditure would be around $35bn higher by FY2029. This would
see the combined cash deficit widen materially, from around $50bn to closer to $85bn by FY2029.
The combined fiscal outlook is also shifting.
Capital spending has surged in recent years, rising from around 12% of total outflows (recurrent plus
capital outlays) in FY2022 to a peak of almost 17% in FY2027. However, this share is expected to ease
back to around 14.5% by FY2029 as the current pipeline of major projects rolls off.

===== Page 31 =====

We are now at (or near) peak levels of public capital expenditure. A significant wave of transport
‘mega‐projects’ is moving through completion. In Sydney, this includes WestConnex (largely complete),
the Metro (with the Southwest line due to open in 2026 and the Western extension by 2032), and
Western Sydney Airport (scheduled for completion in 2026).
In Melbourne, key projects include the Metro Tunnel (completed in late 2025) and the Airport Rail Link

(targeted for 2029), alongside much longer-dated and more uncertain timelines for the Suburban Rail
Loop and Geelong Fast Rail.
In contrast, Brisbane and south-east Queensland retain a more extended pipeline. Major
projects, including Cross River Rail (2025–26) and Gold Coast Light Rail (2026), are complemented by
a broader wave of infrastructure investment supporting activity through to the 2032 Brisbane Olympics.

===== Page 32 =====

At the same time, net interest costs are rising rapidly. By FY2029, we estimate that around 80% of
state borrowing will be used to service interest payments, reflecting both a higher global cost of capital
and a materially larger stock of debt. This is likely to sharpen the focus on the need for fiscal
consolidation.
This dynamic is becoming increasingly important. A larger debt stock, combined with elevated
borrowing costs, will constrain fiscal flexibility, particularly in an environment where global interest

rates remain higher for longer.

===== Page 33 =====

What about the national fiscal impulse? Limited room for further stimulus
The fiscal impulse measures the net contribution of government to aggregate demand. When
governments are balancing their books and net outflows (consumption and investment) equals inflows
(mainly tax revenue) the impulse will be flat or neutral. The change in the impulse is important when
looking at the change in demand, activity, and inflationary pressures.
On our estimates, the combined fiscal impulse is slightly expansionary in FY2027. This follows an

expansionary policy stance over the past three years where the national fiscal impulse was
around 3.5ppts of nominal GDP, an increase comparable to the post‐GFC stimulus in 2009–10.

===== Page 34 =====

However, unlike the GFC, this recent expansion has been driven by the states with
the combined cash deficits larger than the Federal headline cash deficit. This is unusual: historically,
large fiscal expansions have typically been led by the Commonwealth, but in the current cycle it is state
spending, particularly infrastructure, that has dominated the impulse.

===== Page 35 =====

Looking ahead, the slightly expansionary impulse suggests limited incremental support to demand from
fiscal policy. In principle, this should help ease pressure on capacity and inflation. However, given the
ongoing pipeline of policy measures and the political imperative to support households during this oil
price shock, there is a clear risk that fiscal settings remain more expansionary than currently assumed.
Bottom line
The shift in the outlook leaves state budgets in a materially weaker position. A combination of softer

revenue growth, rising cost pressures and an increasing interest burden is set to delay fiscal
repair. With the fiscal impulse to be slightly expansionary in FY2027, there is only limited scope for
additional spending. As a net energy exporter, higher energy commodity prices will unambiguously
boost national income. While there is a case for governments to redistribute some of these gains, a
significant net addition to the fiscal impulse risks leaving policy more expansionary than is consistent

with returning inflation to target.
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.

===== Page 36 =====

Related articles
Subscribe
Preview of New Zealand Budget 2026
May 14 2026 • 3 mins
#fiscalpolicy
By Darren Gibbs

===== Page 37 =====

Half-Year Economic and Fiscal Update, December 2025
December 16 2025 • 4 mins
#fiscalpolicy
By Darren Gibbs

===== Page 38 =====

Preview of Half-Year Economic and Fiscal Update December
2025
December 04 2025 • 3 mins
#fiscalpolicy
By Darren Gibbs
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 39 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 40 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 41 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 42 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 43 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 44 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 45 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 46 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 47 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 48 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 49 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 50 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 51 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 52 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 53 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 54 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 55 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 56 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 57 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 58 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 59 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
CONSUMER PANEL Q1 2026 
FUEL SPIKE EARLY IMPACTS
11 May 2026
• The Westpac–DataX Consumer Panel 
showed that total spending slowed in 
Q1 even as spending on fuel surged. 
Average customer spend across the Panel 
rose 0.6%qtr and 6.5%yr. Excluding 
fuel, spending was up 0.5%qtr and a 
meaningful step down from Q4’s 1.5%qtr.
• The Q1 data points to a reallocation 
rather than a retrenchment in spending. 
Softer growth in discretionary categories 
made up for the sharp increases in 
fuel and utilities. That said more 
exposed cohorts showed limited 
ability to adjust fuel consumption, 
with more of the shock absorbed 
through weaker non‑fuel spending.
• Savings balances continued to rise 
in Q1, but at a slower pace, with 
growth stepping down to below 
recent averages and evidence pointing 
to weaker accumulation rather 
than broad‑based drawdowns.
• Mortgage holders are entering this 
tightening phase with strong savings 
buffers, but these are beginning to 
erode and remain unevenly distributed, 
leaving a meaningful share of borrowers 
vulnerable to income shocks.

Westpac–DataX Consumer Panel
The Westpac–DataX Consumer Panel is a large 
dataset that gives a timely and detailed picture 
of Australian consumer finances and behaviour. 
Developed by DataX, Westpac’s data analytics 
team, the dataset links transaction activity with 
balance sheet information to give a complete view 
of income, spending, saving and borrowing flows. 
All data is de‑identified and aggregated 
to ensure privacy. The resulting sample of 
over 1 million customers gives an accurate 
representation of trends across the wider 
Australian consumer and is perfectly suited 
to quickly tracing responses to events like 
interest rate moves and energy price shocks.
Powered by

===== Page 60 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
This quarter’s panel data captures the early impacts 
of higher fuel prices due to the Middle East conflict. 
The quarter as a whole shows consumers being more 
cautious around their spending, choosing to spend more 
on essentials over discretionary items. The monthly data 
shows the March price shock did see consumers increase 
their spending on fuel while saving less. Delving into the 
disaggregated data across different spending categories, 
there is also early evidence of substitutions as consumers 
adapt to sharply higher fuel costs. 
Signs of caution emerging
Average consumer spending lifted 0.6%qtr to be up 6.5% 
over the year to Q1. This is a material step down from growth 
seen in Q4 (+1.6%) and Q3 (+1.8%).

The Q1 results show the impact of the Middle East conflict 
on oil prices as well as early impacts from the February 
and March interest rate hikes. It is worth noting that rate 
rises often factor into mortgage payments with a lag. This 
means the Q1 panel captures only the start of the increase 
in mortgage payments. Further iterations of the panel will 
contain more information on how consumers are faring.  
The headline number was driven by fuel spending which rose 
6.7%qtr as well as solid contributions by food & non ‑alcoholic 
beverages and recreation & culture. Clothing and footwear 
and transport excluding fuel both posted a drag on spending. 
Non‑fuel spending was up just 0.5%, a significant step down 
from the 1%+ growth seen through Q2 ‑Q4 in 2025. Note all 
analysis is on a per customer basis. 
Consumers absorbing fuel price and rate increases
Illiana Jain
Economist
Neha Sharma
Economist
Who is hurting the most?
First, it is worth gauging just how big the shock is. On a 
monthly non‑seasonally adjusted basis, fuel spending 
increased dramatically rising 45.5% in March 2026, this 
compares to an average of around 11% for March months over 
2022‑25 – March is clearly seasonally‑strong. Adjusting for 
this, fuel spending rose 23%. This was the largest monthly 
increase in fuel spending recorded on the panel. As for non ‑
fuel spending, it increased 9.9% in March, slightly above the 
9.5% increase seen for March months over 2022 ‑2025. 
By cohorts, young people aged 18 ‑24 and young families 
with mortgages were among the most exposed to fuel price 
increases. Those aged 18 ‑24 on average have fuel make up 
over 6% of total spending compared to between 4 ‑5% among 
all other age cohorts. Their fuel expenditure rose the least at 
3.7%qtr while older cohorts saw a larger increase in spend 
– up 8.3%qtr amongst those in the 65+ cohort. The biggest 
consumers of fuel in level terms are those aged 45 ‑54, many 
of whom are mortgage holders. Their fuel spend increased 
8%qtr. In part this likely reflects their relatively limited scope 
to adjust their spending on fuel. It was this age cohort that 
saw the smallest increase in non ‑fuel spending at 0.3%qtr.

By mortgage holder group, those with a mortgage increased 
their fuel spending by 8.3%qtr while those without a mortgage 
saw an increase of 5.0%qtr. There was some difference in 
non‑fuel spending with mortgage holders increasing spending 
by 0.3%qtr, relative to a 1.7% average quarterly growth in 
spending through 2025. This compares to 0.5%qtr for non ‑
mortgage holders vs 1.3%qtr through last year.

===== Page 61 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
Are consumers drawing from their savings?
Average customer savings balances rose 1.4%qtr (~$600) 
in Q1 to $43.4k. This is a slowdown from 3.2%qtr rise in Q4 
and is the second slowest pace seen in one ‑and‑a‑half‑years. 
Savings growth also amounted to just 3.4% of income in Q1, 
running below its three year average of 4.0%, Some of this 
slowdown may reflect stronger ‑than‑usual spending in Q4 
with customers left to take care of the bill in Q1 (e.g. credit 
card and buy‑now‑pay‑later repayments).

Average customer balances rose across all age groups and 
income groups in the quarter. By age, the 35–44 cohort was 
a bit of an outlier with average balances up just 0.4%qtr 
and monthly data shows this was also the only group to 
drawdown on savings in March. Savings growth across the 
remaining age cohorts was more solid, at around 1–2%qtr. By 
income quintile, growth in balances ranged from 0.9–2.5%qtr, 
with the strongest increases recorded among lower‑income 
households.

Looking at the monthly savings data, there is little evidence of 
a broad‑based drawdown. As noted above, average balances 
rose across all cohorts in March, with the exception of the 
35–44 age group. However, averages can mask pockets of 
vulnerability. Unit‑record data show that just over half of 
customers ended March with lower savings, though this does 
not appear to be a material lift from recent history.

Where we are seeing a more meaningful shift is in the share 
of customers becoming more ‘savings reliant’. The proportion 
of under‑65s whose savings have declined for three (and six) 
consecutive months has risen to its highest (second highest) 
level in over two years. By age, the largest increase over the 
past six months has been among the 25–44 age groups. 
Meanwhile, across income levels, the largest step‑up in 
drawdowns has occurred in the middle income quintile.

Where are they substituting from?
There were some substitution effects being observed – non ‑
fuel spend rose 0.5%qtr, a step down from 1.5%qtr in Q4 and 
Q3. This came despite a 6.9%qtr lift in utilities from a roll off 
of electricity subsidies. Indeed, households were effectively 
adjusting to two simultaneous price shocks – fuel and utilities 
– amplifying the pressure on discretionary spending. Some 
categories of discretionary spending posted meaningful 
declines including; alcohol & tobacco (–2.2%qtr), clothing & 
footwear (–1.5%qtr), household furnishings (–1.5%qtr), and 
restaurants & hotels (–0.5%qtr). 
In monthly terms, a lot of the pull‑back was actually seen in the 
first two months of the year with March supporting the quarterly 
print, largely driven by fuel and essential categories. This 
comes after a strong November and December period. Non‑fuel 
spending fell 0.2%mth in January followed by a 0.3%mth gain in 
February and a 1.6%mth lift in March. Looking into the details, 
most of the weakness for March was in discretionary categories 
like alcohol & tobacco (–0.8%mth) and restaurants and hotels 
(+0.1%mth). This suggests that while consumers did continue to 
spend more, they focussed much of the spending on essentials 
rather than discretionary goods and services.
The heatmap below shows the contribution to growth of the 
different categories of spending. The more red the category, 
the stronger the spending has been compared to the history 
of that series. Blue represents a slowdown in spending. In 
the brightest red is fuel spending and food spending. Food 
has been strong due to both its high share in most people’s 
spending as well as a shift to essential spending.
Looking at average spending per transaction, this increased 
across most categories for the month of March, fuel being the 
one showing the largest increase. Consumers spent $58.52 
per transaction in March compared to $57.50 in February. The 
number of transactions per customer also posted a gain of 1%.

===== Page 62 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS  
Mortgagor savings buffer distribution
What does this mean for the RBA?                                             
Our Q1 data shows a gradual but uneven slowdown in 
household demand . Non‑fuel spending slowed materially in 
Q1, with clear weakness in discretionary categories, indicating 
spending is starting to slow already. At the same time, strong 
growth in essential spending, fuel, food and utilities, shows 
that aggregate consumption is being supported by necessity 
rather than underlying strength, masking a deterioration in real 
household purchasing power.

This dynamic aligns closely with recent RBA messaging that 
demand needs to slow to contain inflation, particularly given 
capacity constraints and ongoing price pressures from energy 
shocks. However, the Panel also suggests that part of the 
adjustment is being driven by supply‑side price increases 
rather than monetary policy alone. The inflation aspect of this 
adjustment clearly complicates the policy trade‑off.

Household balance sheets remain a key offset, with savings 
buffers still elevated. But the slowing pace of savings 
accumulation, rising share of households drawing down, and 
emerging stress in middle‑income and 25–44 cohorts indicate 
that financial pressures are intensifying at the margin. Overall, 
the data support a cautious RBA stance. That said, the data is 
only just capturing the very early impacts of both fuel price and 
interest rate increases. 
About the Westpac-DataX Consumer Panel
Developed by DataX, Westpac’s data analytics service for 
institutional and business banking customers, the dataset links 
transaction activity with balance sheet information to give a 
complete view of income, spending, saving and borrowing flows. 
The resulting sample of over 1 million customers provides an 
accurate representation of trends across the wider Australian 
consumer. 
Monthly observations are available back to January 2019 with 
timely updates provided a few weeks after the end of each month. 
As such, it is perfectly suited to quickly tracing the impact and 
responses to events like interest rate moves and energy price 
shocks.
While the data are seasonally adjusted, there appears to 
be some residual seasonality. Even so, the trend hints at a 
growing cohort of customers coming under financial pressure 
and becoming increasingly reliant on savings and we will 
continue to monitor this closely in the coming months. 
How are mortgagors placed to weather this? 
Against the backdrop of the Middle East conflict and with 
three rate hikes now in play – and likely more to come – most 
mortgage holders appear well placed to absorb the pressures. 
Average savings among mortgage holders sit just under $80k, 
up 2.3%qtr. In 2021/22 dollar terms, balances are around 10% 
higher than both the start of the previous tightening cycle and 
when rates last hit 4.35%, highlighting that mortgagors are 
entering this phase on a stronger footing than in the past.

On average, mortgage holders now hold savings equivalent 
to 22.6 months of essential expenses (minimum mortgage 
repayment, food & utilities). This is a 0.3%qtr decline, the first 
drop since mid‑2022 and appears to be largely a result of a 
3.2%qtr increase in food costs – the highest since Q1 2024. 
Average minimum mortgage repayments have also started to 
increase since December 2025, weighing on buffers. Note that 
the increase in repayments likely reflects compositional shifts 
from new home buyers as well as existing holders possibly 
fixing their mortgage ahead of expected rate hikes. Buffers 
are still 11.6%yr higher and at the highest level in two ‑and‑a‑
years.

While buffers remain high in average terms, the distribution 
highlights uneven financial resilience across mortgage holders. 
Around one‑third of borrowers hold less than three months 
of buffers, and although the distribution has shifted modestly 
to the right since 2024, indicating some improvement, a 
meaningful share of customers remains exposed to extended 
income disruptions. Job losses therefore remain a key risk in 
the current economic environment. With the median job search 
duration around 11 weeks, a subset of borrowers may struggle 
to keep up with mortgage repayments unless shortfalls are 
absorbed through reductions in other essential spending.

===== Page 63 =====

===== Page 64 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward‑looking statements. These forward ‑looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG‑related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit ‑taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 65 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly‑owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker ‑dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a‑6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non ‑U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non ‑U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker‑dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self‑regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub‑licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub‑
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 66 =====

#trade #australia
Australia’s Trade in Goods Account, March
By Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac
15:15 May 07 2026 Share
Australia’s monthly goods trade balance fell into a deficit for the first time since 2017, driven
by a combination of higher costs for fuel imports, continued volatility in gold trade, and most
surprisingly, a truly remarkable surge in imports for data processing machines associated
with AI. Trade balance: –$1.8bn. Export values: –2.7%mth. Import values: +14.1%mth.

===== Page 67 =====

March’s goods trade data surprised on many fronts. The headline balance collapsed from a surplus of
$5.0bn in February to a deficit of –$1.8bn March, marking the first monthly goods trade deficit since
December 2017. Higher fuel costs stemming from the Middle East conflict was an important driver, but
it was not the only factor at play. Most surprisingly, there was a truly remarkable surge in imports for
data processing machines, often associated with the AI. Continued volatility in gold on both sides of the

ledger were also a factor, alongside lower export earnings.
Exports
Export earnings disappointed in March, falling –2.7%. An important driver of this was a broad-based
pull-back in rural goods exports (–11.6%) from a solid showing in February. This latest move looks to
be largely volume-driven based on other sources of price data. Rural goods exports have been more
volatile month-to-month, but it is operating around a solid trend that has broadly supported export

earnings of late.
However, the fact that non-rural goods did not provide any material offset to this was surprising, barely
eking out a gain in the month (0.3%). Across our ‘Big 3’ commodity exports: coal dropped –1.8%, metal
ores and minerals (i.e. iron ore) fell –1.4%, while the lift in other mineral fuels (i.e. LNG) was
underwhelming (+4.6%).
Additional data provided by the ABS on prices and volumes for these commodities revealed some

===== Page 68 =====

important nuances.
For LNG, export volumes lifted broadly in line with seasonal patterns in March, and interestingly, prices
received was virtually flat in the month (+0.3%). Compared to this time last year, this export price index
is –18.7% lower, given the broad decline in prices over 2025. This is a stark contrast to what we are
observing in the LNG spot market, where prices have lifted notably since the onset of the Middle East
shock.
That said, it is important to note that it typically takes a couple of months for changes in spot prices to

feed through to the reported export prices in ABS trade data. The rate at which this can occur also
depends on some extent to the scale of the move in prices. For example, while LNG spot prices lifted
notably in March, it is nowhere near the extent of the 2022 Russia-Ukraine shock, which saw a
relatively faster pass-through into export prices. Ultimately, while a significant lift to export earnings
from LNG was not immediately apparent in the March data, it is reasonable to assume that we will see

some increase over the coming months.
Meanwhile for iron ore, there was a seasonal lift in both export volumes and prices but it was fairly
underwhelming compared to previous years. It was a similar story for coal export volumes too, although
prices had a stronger showing in the month. Big swings in gold exports continue to add a layer of
volatility – this time, contributing to the decline in export earnings with a –6.1% fall this month. This
follow an extraordinary 42% surge over January and February, however.

===== Page 69 =====

Imports
The drop in export earnings was compounded by a surge in the import bill, climbing 14.1% in March,
the largest monthly gain in over three years. Before discussing the story around fuel imports, though, it
is important to mention that the bulk of this move came down to one line item: automatic data
processing machines (ADP), which exploded a whopping $2.9bn in March alone, a 300% increase.
This likely captures many of the hardware components associated with AI, such as NVIDIA chips that

can fetch US$30-50k each. We had been consistently highlighting the strong uptrend in ADP imports
over 2025 for this reason, but we are still puzzled at the sheer scale of the surge in March. This may
well be a robust signal of the AI investment drive taking place on Australian shores, even if there is
some noise in the mix.
Meanwhile, there was also 37.4% surge in petroleum product imports in March, reflecting higher global
prices since the onset of the Middle East conflict. The ABS provided additional detail on the prices and

volumes of refined petroleum imports in March:
Gasoline import prices rose 20.6%, and volumes imported rose 18.8%.
Diesel import prices rose 42.2% and volumes imported fell –11.6%.

===== Page 70 =====

We are likely to continue seeing extreme volatility on this front over the coming months, as both prices
fluctuate due to the conflict and volumes shift as authorities aimed to secure inventory. There is likely
some lag in this data too.
Prices of and volumes for crude (unrefined) petroleum imports also bounced higher in the month but
given its much smaller share in the energy import mix, it didn’t have as much of an impact in aggregate,
given we mostly import already refined fuel products. Extreme volatility in gold remains an important

driver too, with import values for this commodity jumping 35% higher in March adding to the import bill.
Consumption goods imports rose 1.2% in March, building on February’s lift.
Overall, monthly data suggests that the nominal goods trade balance has narrowed by around $4.6bn,
from $9.9bn in Q4 to $5.3bn in Q1, driven predominately by a surge in imports, but also a weaker
showing in exports. This provides a gauge on what to expect for the official reading on Australia’s

current account balance as far as the goods side is concerned – the main uncertainty, though, is the
services balance, for which there are fewer current indicators to draw from. Additionally, large monthly
swings has also made it difficult to pin-point just how much of the nominal goods trade data is simply
due to price effects rather than real volumes.
Jet fuel import prices rose 42.7, and volumes imported fell –6.9%.

===== Page 71 =====

Related articles
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Australia’s Trade in Goods Account, February
April 02 2026 • 5 mins
#trade
By Mantas Vanagas

===== Page 72 =====

Australia’s Trade in Goods Account, January
March 05 2026 • 5 mins
#trade
By Mantas Vanagas
#trade

===== Page 73 =====

Talking about trade: more tariff uncertainty
February 27 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke & Mantas Vanagas
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 74 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 75 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 76 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 77 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 78 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 79 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 80 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 81 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 82 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 83 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 84 =====

#cliffnotes #rba #australia #inflation #us #fomc #ecb #aud #usd
Cliff Notes: beyond th e h orizon
By Elliot Clarke, Illiana Jain&Ryan Wells
13:05 May 15 2026 Share
Key insights from the week that was.
The 2026/27 Federal Budget was the main event in Australia this week. Our bulletin provides a detailed
view of the Government’s fiscal position, policy measures and economic expectations over the forward
estimates. Compared to the projections from MYEFO, the budget bottom line has improved owing to

commodity price windfalls, with the deficit now expected to hold steady around 1.0% of GDP. Larger
improvements in the Government’s finances are anticipated in the outer years as the Government’s

===== Page 85 =====

major saving measures deliver. Of particular note is the clamp-down on NDIS spending announced in
April, which is expected to relieve budget pressure from payment cost inflation and help keep Federal
net debt low versus other OECD countries.
The tax reform proposed in the Budget was also consequential and broad-based, impacting negative
gearing, the capital gains tax discount and discretionary trusts. Our conversation with Chief Economist
Luci Ellis explores these proposed changes and the other key measures for households. Budget night

also saw a number of initiatives put forward for business and SMEs, alongside a range of reforms that
should help foster productivity growth in the long run. While meaningful, these measures are not
expected to materially add or detract from the fiscal impulse over the next couple of years, thereby
having little impact on the RBA’s policy calculus.
Our Q1 Westpac-DataX Consumer Panel meanwhile showed that consumers are having to reduce
savings and discretionary consumption to absorb the spike in fuel and electricity prices (the latter now

due to the roll-off of government rebates). Mortgage holders are well placed in aggregate to weather
the shock from the Middle East and interest rate rises; but the distribution of buffers is varied, leaving
some more exposed. Wages growth remains robust and is only slowing gradually, offering support to
consumer demand without posing an immediate threat to inflation. That said, the pass-through of non-
labour input cost inflation was a key message in this week’s NAB business survey, giving the RBA

cause to remain cautious of inflation’s potential persistence.
Last Friday in the US, nonfarm payrolls beat expectations, rising 115k in April with only a small -16k
revision to the previous two months. This left the three-month average at 48k, consistent with labour
demand and supply being in balance. The unemployment rate remained steady at 4.3% as the
participation rate edged down 0.1ppts. On a multi-month view, the labour market can be characterised

as a ‘low hire, low fire’ environment, a sentiment echoed by FOMC member Schmid this week. This
backdrop should result in moderate wage growth over the coming year.
The April CPI then came in as expected at 0.6%, 3.8%yr. The headline outcome reflected a further
5.4% gain for gasoline prices after March’s 21.2% surge. An outsized 0.6% increase in the shelter
component was also observed, reportedly biased up by a delayed sample reset following the
government shutdown late last year. Abstracting from these two effects, underlying inflation was

modest in the month. Energy was also a major contributor to import prices in April, up 1.9% (0.7% ex-
petroleum) to be 4.2% higher over the year. Seeing as the US is an energy product exporter, export
prices have also strengthened of late, up 3.3% in April to be up 8.8%yr. US consumers look to be
weathering the surge in energy prices well so far, headline and control group retail sales up 0.5% in
April, a solid gain. Tax refunds have supported spending of late, and established households continue

to benefit from fixed interest rates and wealth gains.
China’s price data was also stronger than expected in April because of energy prices. Consumer
inflation lifted to 1.2%yr, while producer prices were up 2.8%yr. Producer price gains were
concentrated in the most energy-intensive sectors such as metals, while sectors more vulnerable to
excess capacity saw price declines. While recent data has been encouraging for China’s deflationary
cycle, it is worth noting that it’s the supply-side driving the outcomes, not demand. Further fiscal

support will be required to sustainably lift China out of deflation.

===== Page 86 =====

Related articles
Of course, the main event in China this week was not a data release but instead the meeting between
President Xi and President Trump. While limited in terms of the detail, the outcomes were productive.
The US has reportedly agreed to reduce its controls over China’s access to technology; and in return,
China will buy more commodities from the US. A “Board of Trade” is also to be set up to allow trade
disputes to be resolved through bilateral negotiation. President Trump also reportedly emphasised the

need for China to help bring the conflict in the Middle East to an end and re-open the Strait of Hormuz.
Whether progress is seen on that front is an open question. President XI has been invited to
Washington in September to continue in-person discussions.
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Cliff Notes: dynamic risks
May 08 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes

===== Page 87 =====

By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain & Ryan Wells
Cliff Notes: policy perspectives from across the globe
May 01 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain , Ryan Wells &1 more

===== Page 88 =====

Cliff Notes: Middle East conflict seemingly at an impasse
April 24 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke & Illiana Jain
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 89 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 90 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 91 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 92 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 93 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 94 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 95 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 96 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 97 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 98 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 99 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 100 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 101 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 102 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 103 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 104 =====

#cliffnotes #rba #australia #inflation #us #fomc #ecb #aud #usd
Cliff Notes: dynamic risks
By Elliot Clarke, Illiana Jain&Ryan Wells
08:05 May 08 2026 Share
Key insights from the week that was.
In an 8-1 vote, the RBA Monetary Policy Board (MPB) delivered its third consecutive rate hike, raising
the cash rate by 25bps to its prior peak of 4.35%. The MPB stated that “the conflict in the Middle East
has resulted in sharply higher fuel and related commodity prices” and that “this is likely to have second-

round effects on prices for goods and services more broadly.” Inflation is now expected “to remain
above target for some time”. The MPB are also attune to the risk of “price rises get[ting] built into longer

===== Page 105 =====

term inflation expectations” in the event of a longer, or more severe, conflict.
In a video update midweek, Chief Economist Luci Ellis noted that Governor Bullock’s press conference
was a bit more dovish than we had anticipated, with the last three hikes framed as giving some space
for the MPB to assess how the risks evolve. That said, the staff’s forecasts – which are predicated on
an assumption of around one-and-a-half more rate hikes – have underlying inflation peaking at 3.8%yr

in Q2 2026 and not returning to target until the end of its forecast horizon at June 2028. Inflation risks
are firmly skewed towards a higher peak and potentially a slower return to target. We therefore
continue to expect another two rate hikes from the RBA in coming months. But, given Governor
Bullock’s somewhat more cautious tone, we admit the case for June is now more finely balanced.
Rate hikes already look to be having an effect on the housing market, with national dwelling price

growth slowing from a monthly pace of 0.6% in January to 0.2% in April. Performance across the
capital cities is mixed, with prices down in Sydney and Melbourne prices but still rising in Brisbane,
Adelaide and Perth. While a firming uptrend for dwelling approvals bodes well for supply, cost
pressures stemming from the Middle East conflict will likely cause delays and some second thoughts
on projects planned but not commenced.
Trends across other parts of the economy are also starting to shift. The ABS’ nominal household

spending indicator bounced 1.6% in March on account of higher fuel costs, mirroring our own
consumer card activity data. Abstracting from price effects, we expect real consumption to gain 0.6% in
Q1; however, outside of fuel and electricity (buoyed by the rebate roll-off), the spending pulse looks
faint. This speaks to the more challenging economic outlook taking hold across the nation, particularly
in non-mining states where revenue constraints and higher expenses provide less scope for fiscal

support.
Before moving offshore, a final note on trade. Unlike the shocks of recent years which benefitted
Australia’s net trade position, recent data revealed the nominal goods trade surplus buckled into
deficit in March for the first time since 2017. Higher fuel import costs (+37.4%) and volatility in gold
played important roles. But the chief culprit behind the surprise was a remarkable surge in data
processing machine imports, up $2.9bn or 300% in the month. While noisy and likely a wash for GDP –

being offset by inventories or investment – this is clear evidence of the global AI investment drive
reaching Australia’s shores.
Offshore, markets have been pre-occupied by developments in the Middle East. At the beginning of the
week, President Trump announced Project Freedom, an initiative to provide safe passage through the
Strait of Hormuz to ships stuck in the Persian Gulf. As soon as the operation commenced though,
skirmishes were seen between the US and Iranian military. UAE energy infrastructure was also

targeted.
The US did not retaliate, however, instead referencing an end to the offensive portion of this war. And,
within two days, Project Freedom was suspended indefinitely to make way for further intermediated
negotiations. Reports suggest progress has been made, albeit without detail. Iran is arguably coming
under greater pressure to make a deal, with China’s Foreign Minister emphasising this week the need
for a quick end to the conflict and re-opening of the Strait while meeting Iran’s Foreign Minister. The

===== Page 106 =====

Related articles
timing of this development is not a surprise considering President Trump and President Xi are due to
meet mid-month.
Data releases were uneventful this week. The ISM services index for April eased slightly to 53.6. The
new orders index fell 7.1pts to 53.5, slightly below its 10-year pre-COVID average, and the
employment indicator rose 4pts but remained weak versus history. The latest JOLTS job openings data
and ADP private payrolls release were broadly consistent with balance between labour demand and

supply. For the FOMC, this will keep the focus on inflation risks. Guidance given by FOMC members
this week was consistent with this view.
A full update on our expectations for the global economy, Australia and New Zealand will be released
later today on Westpac IQ in our May Westpac Market Outlook.
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
#cliffnotes

===== Page 107 =====

Cliff Notes: beyond the horizon
May 15 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain & Ryan Wells
Cliff Notes: policy perspectives from across the globe
May 01 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Illiana Jain , Ryan Wells &1 more

===== Page 108 =====

Cliff Notes: Middle East conflict seemingly at an impasse
April 24 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke & Illiana Jain
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 109 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 110 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 111 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 112 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 113 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 114 =====

#australia #luciellis #fx #interestrates#rba
Th ree ch allenging trends and th e opportunities th ey present forAustralian women
By Luci Ellis
Chief Economist Westpac Group, Westpac
12:45 May 07 2026 Share
Three challenging trends – demographics, technology, and expectations of government –
present opportunities for Australian women. How might the federal budget support them?

===== Page 115 =====

Thanks to the Women in Economics Network for the opportunity to speak to you today and share the
stage with such accomplished professional colleagues. I am grateful for the important work WEN does.
Economics is a science of human behaviour. Our endowments, our priorities and – in some
circumstances – our physiology can all matter for our choices and our economic outcomes. If
economics does not incorporate those diverse perspectives, it loses the ability to explain human

behaviour. A profession that is more balanced across both sexes is critical to getting that diversity of
perspectives.
With so much going on in the world, it is all too easy to fixate on immediate problems, ignoring the
longer-term issues – and opportunities. Today I want step back and talk about those longer-
term trends. I will:
These three trends are:
Ageing population, growing workforce
Many in the room will be under the impression that population ageing means a shrinking

workforce. I am here to tell you that this is not true. Work with my Westpac colleague Ryan Wells back
in September shows that in most Western economies, the labour force participation rate is in fact rising.
In Australia it is on a five-decade up-trend, reaching historical highs in recent years.
Yes, the share of older people in the population is increasing. Population ageing happens because we
are living longer, healthier lives. People will make different choices when lifespans lengthen. They will

work for longer and retire later. Part of this stems from policy changes, such as higher pension eligibility
ages. But much of it is the choices people make, knowing that they would otherwise need to fund very
long retirements, and knowing that they do not need to retire early due to ill-health in the same
numbers as previous generations did. Thus participation rates within age groups rise, especially the
55–64 age group. This can be (and for Australia, so far is) enough to offset the rising share of older

people.
The reason for this counter-intuitive result is an example of first-round thinking not being enough. We
need to account for people’s responses changing as circumstances change. Just as Toyota taught us
to ask “why” five times to get to the root cause, we must ask, “and then what?” five times to understand
how a longer-term trend will play out. Changes in age mix do not happen in isolation. The “and then
what” is that participation rates within age groups rise and can more than offset an ageing population

outline three big trends shaping current and future outcomes
highlight the opportunities these trends present for Australian women – not just the downsides
suggest some ways that the federal budget, and government more broadly, might promote those
opportunities, rather than focus only on the downsides.
The ageing population
The AI technology revolution – and it is a revolution
Rising expectations of government – perceived or real

===== Page 116 =====

mix.
I suspect that people also missed this trend because it is not happening in the United States. US life
expectancy has not really increased in the past couple of decades; premature death is much higher
than in peers such as Australia and Europe. And so participation of the 55–64 age group, and even the
prime-age 25–54 group, in the US lags other advanced economies. The gap is now such that overall
participation in Japan is noticeably higher than in the US, despite Japan’s population being much older

on average.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women
Population ageing does present opportunities for women. First, some of the increase in overall
participation stems from still-rising participation by women in the 25–54 age group, not just from older
workers. There will always be some jobs – say, furniture removal – where male upper body
strength will remain an advantage. As the workforce changes, though, job design will need to evolve to

fit those changes, and the changes driven by an ageing workforce and a more female workforce
are likely similar.
In addition, as lifespans and working lives lengthen, career breaks for family reasons become less of
a setback in the accumulation of retirement savings. Since women are more likely to take such breaks
than men, this eases a current disadvantage.
How the federal budget might support this
If government wants to realise the opportunities created by an ageing population

and an expanding workforce that is older and more female, it should do everything it can to smooth the
path for women to enter the workforce, re-enter the workforce after a break, and stay in the workforce
as long as they feel able.
Getting the NDIS on a sustainable footing and back to its core purposes of supporting the severely
disabled and reducing family members’ caring burden is a singular example of what is needed. The
“sandwich generation” task of caring for children and elderly parents simultaneously is

a disproportionately borne by women. Well-funded support in schools, with support and training for
teachers and parents alike, may support some families with children currently on the NDIS better than
a system that creates more life admin by funding appointments with service providers, which parents
need to attend with their children.
More broadly, designing every program with the principle of reducing life admin for families should be a
red thread through all federal and state initiatives.

Tax and retirement policy could be reshaped to ensure women who took career breaks are not held
back by cliff effects and complexity from accumulating the needed retirement savings.
I note also that much of Australia’s economic policy apparatus has been built on the false

===== Page 117 =====

assumption that ageing results in a shrinking workforce. Separately, therefore, budgets, the
Intergenerational Review and other policies should be revisited so forecasts and program design can
be based on actual trends, not first-round thinking.
AI and the new technology wave
Turning to the AI revolution – I use that word intentionally. The scope and capability of this new general-
purpose technology have expanded enormously, with a pace that defies belief. Anything

you thought about this technology based on what you knew six months ago is obsolete. There is a lot
we do not know about how this will play out. Still, we can think through some implications, again
beyond the first round of responses.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women
I see three opportunities from the AI revolution that might specifically benefit women. Firstly, with
everything being so new and moving so quickly that almost nobody knows anything, it is easier to step

into a field, or back into the workforce after a pause. Seismic breaks in the landscape of work mean
past career breaks in a CV should be less of a disadvantage.
Secondly, AI might weaken the hold of what Harvard economics professor Claudia Goldin termed
“greedy jobs”, those where long, continual hours are expected and frenetic pace early on
builds experience and skills that allow career progression later. If agents can instead carry the context
and assist with some tasks, “always on” continuity becomes less of an imperative. The jobs may

become greedier of cognitive skills and the ability to orchestrate all those agents. Relative to careers
that demand sheer “presence” and long, frenetic hours early in your career, though, this
should help level the playing field between the two sexes, provided institutional norms also change. (I
recognise this is a critical assumption.)
Thirdly, granted there is still much uncertainty and debate about which jobs will remain in demand and
which will be less prevalent as this technology percolates. There is, however, good reason to believe

that those least prone to full automation include those in-person, so-called ‘caring’ occupations that
have provided so many job opportunities for women.
I note also that Australia is well-placed more broadly to take advantage of this new technology.
Contrary to the stereotype of Australia being mostly about resources and financial services, this country
has a burgeoning software industry that is already taking advantage of the newest tools. Coming

from almost nothing a decade ago, Australia now boasts a software licensing export industry that
brought in $9½ billion of export revenue in 2025. For perspective, this is bigger than aluminium
or copper, and almost as big as last year’s wheat exports.
I would also note that concerns about unequal returns to the AI boom are less relevant in Australia.
Even if all the profits accrue to a few tech firms – a debatable proposition – almost all Australians will

have exposure to this upside through their superannuation funds.
How the federal budget might support this

===== Page 118 =====

Of course, there was no government program or special initiative to create a software export industry.
And this points to what the budget, and government, can and should do in this space – don’t get in the
way of the good bits or think that it is the government’s role to lead and guide in every realm of
endeavour.
There are of course privacy, child protection and national security angles to AI
tools that warrant intervention and an appropriate regulatory framework. Just don’t get in the way of

allowing women to lean into this future.
I note reports of government concern that AI might fuel work intensification, which would be creating
“greedy jobs” by other means. Before rushing to regulate in this sphere, though, we should check
that intensification is a material issue. There is reason to think the opposite might end up being true. As
agents become more reliable partners to hand off work to, human cognitive contribution becomes both
more important and less time-bound. Just as the assumption that population ageing would shrink the

workforce turned out to be wrong, so might the idea that AI necessarily intensifies work beyond an
initial period of experimentation.
Growing perception that people expect more of government
The third big trend I want to address today might or might not be real, but it is certainly a
growing perception in policy circles: that people expect more of government nowadays, and that
governments should therefore deliver on those expectations. We see a rising call for government

support in more circumstances. The rapid growth in scope and cost of the
NDIS is the canonical example in a traditional area for government involvement. Expanding industry
policy shows how the scope of policy can broaden as well as deepen.
Regulation and governance now touch an increasing set of activities, and the nature of that
regulation is expanding. Whether it is the number of agencies firms need to seek approval from to build
something, or the number of pages in the Income Tax Assessment Act (just one of current 12 volumes

has a similar page count to the 1997 version), I am reminded of that well-known feminist
philosopher Avril Lavigne’s lyric, “why’d you have to go and make things so complicated?” The answer
is, of course, that there was always one more thing that someone with the best of intent thought should
be added.
The consequences of this belief about public expectations are evident in the rising share of household
income being paid in income tax, rising regulatory footprint, and, as with some of the public programs I

have already mentioned, a rising life admin burden that falls disproportionately on women.
I also worry that decisions to intervene shape decisions in ways that harm future resilience. If
every adverse event is met with a government intervention to cushion the blow, a kind of “learned
helplessness” can emerge, for firms and industries as well as individuals.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women

===== Page 119 =====

The consequences of this belief are not all bad, though. An area where the footprint of government has
expanded to the benefit of women has been greater scope of crisis payments, especially for women
and children escaping domestic and family violence. To the extent that this means more women can
escape violence in the first place, it is surely a good outcome.
In addition, as I noted earlier, the expansion of the “care economy” and the regulatory footprint more

broadly has been positive for women’s employment. Especially in a relatively sex-
segregated occupational job market like Australia’s, health, education and social care roles
are disproportionately female-coded. Using the industry of a person’s main job to categorise, women
and girls make up 48% of total employment, but more than 70% of employment in health,
social care and their sub-industries. Public administration and financial services also have above-

average female employment shares.
How the federal budget might address this
Still, it would be good if these benefits could be reaped without all the admin, the complexity and the
cost of our current system. If there is one thing I would hope for from this and future budgets, it is to
take Ms Lavigne’s words to heart and make things less complicated.
Every intervention deserves scrutiny on this front. Without advocating specific changes, I instead

offer the principle that governments should hesitate and ideally refrain from policies and programs
where the answer to any of the following questions is “yes”.
On the last of these, the axiom I have in mind is “if it is safe enough for Europeans, it should be safe
enough for Australians”. There are some exceptions, such as the need to build differently in a bushfire-
prone continent. But from car booster seats to bike helmet laws for adults, Australia has shown a

consistent tendency to go further on perceived safety than its European
counterparts. Similarly, if evidence reviews by the health authorities of enough peer
European nations show that a particular medical intervention is ineffective, we do not need to redo the
analysis on smaller Australian datasets to stop performing and funding that intervention here.
Conclusion
To sum up, it is an uncertain world, though nobody ever says things are less uncertain than usual. All

the more reason to keep sight of the big trends that will shape our futures even when current volatility
is past. The good news is that these trends present opportunities for Australian
women, but only if we ensure that other priorities – real or perceived – do not prevent us
from making use of these opportunities. Thank you.
Does the intervention take away choice?
Does the intervention promote learned helplessness?
Has the support been overcomplicated?

Does the intervention involve re-litigation of a safety standard or an evidence base that has already
been established elsewhere?

===== Page 120 =====

Related articles
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
Australia and NZ Weekly 18 May 2026
May 18 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &9 more

===== Page 121 =====

Australia and NZ Weekly 18 May 2026
May 15 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &9 more
#australia

===== Page 122 =====

Australia and NZ Weekly 11 May 2026
May 11 2026 • 10 mins
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &9 more
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 123 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 124 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 125 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 126 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 127 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 128 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
MORNING REPORT
18 May 2026
Key themes
Risk sentiment took a hit
at the end of last week
as nerves around the
Middle East conflict and its
inflationary consequences
resurfaced.
This comes as the Xi-Trump
summit ended without any
significant changes in the
status quo, outside of an

agricultural produce deal.
A global bond rout saw
longer-dated yields jump
to fresh highs across some
jurisdictions, as markets now
expect tighter monetary
policy sooner.
10-year treasury yields
are only a fraction under
4.6%, while added political
instability in the UK has sent
the 10-year Gilts yields to
their highest since 2008.
Crude oil prices lifted back
up to a near two-week high
as a result, with Brent now
trading around US$109/bbl.
This came alongside a sell-off

in equities, a rally in the USD
and a drop in gold prices.
Data snapshot
Data as at 7:00am AEST. Change is from the previous trading day (excluding the SFE, which is the change during the night
session). Source: Bloomberg.
Today's economic developments and market movements.
FX Last 24 hrs Current Change AUS Interest Rate Swaps Last Change
TWI 66.6 -1.0% 30 day BBSY 4.35 -0.01
AUD/USD 0.7151 -1.0% 90 day BBSY 4.49 0.00
AUD/JPY 113.47 -0.7% 180 day BBSY 4.83 0.00

AUD/GBP 0.5367 -0.4% 1 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/NZD 1.2234 0.2% 2 year swap 4.76 0.06
AUD/EUR 0.6153 -0.5% 3 year swap 4.74 0.05
AUD/CNH 4.8720 -0.6% 4 year swap 4.74 0.09
AUD/SGD 0.9154 -0.7% 5 year swap 4.76 0.10
AUD/HKD 5.6008 -1.0% 6 year swap 4.80 0.10
AUD/CAD 0.9834 -0.7% 7 year swap 4.85 0.10
EUR/USD 1.1623 -0.4% 8 year swap 4.90 0.11
USD/JPY 158.67 0.2% 9 year swap 4.94 0.11
USD Index 99.28 0.5% 10 year swap 4.98 0.11
Equities Close Change Government Bond Yields Close Change

S&P/ASX 200 8,631 -0.1% Australia
S&P 500 7,409 -1.2% 3 year bond 4.73 0.05
Japan Nikkei 61,409 -2.0% 10 year bond 5.07 0.05
Hang Seng 25,963 -1.6% United States
Euro Stoxx 50 5,828 -1.8% 3-month T Bill 3.58 -0.01
UK FTSE100 10,195 -1.7% 2 year bond 4.07 0.05
VIX Index 18.43 6.8% 10 year bond 4.59 0.11
Other (10 year yields)
Commodities Current Change Germany 3.17 0.12
CRB Index 399.29 -0.2% Japan 2.72 0.08
Gold 4540.08 -2.4% UK 5.17 0.18
Copper 13555 -2.8%

Oil (WTI futures) 105.42 4.2% Sydney Futures Exchange Current Change
Coal (coking) 239.50 -0.1% 10 yr bond 5.14 0.04
Coal (thermal) 136.50 2.3% 3 yr bond 4.76 0.02
Iron Ore 108.80 -1.3% 3 mth bill rate 4.54 0.01
ACCU 36.13 -4.3% SPI 200 8,618 -0.4%

===== Page 129 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
TODAY’S INSIGHTS
Financial Markets
•  It was a sea of red for global equity markets at the end of
last week, with risk sentiment taking a hit amid concerns
over the lack of progress and regarding the US-Iran
war and the associated scale of its inflationary impact.

US sharemarkets fell from a record high, led by but not
exclusive to chipmakers, with the S&P 500 (–1.2%), Dow
Jones (–1.1%) and NASDAQ (–1.5%) all posting declines.
The Euro Stoxx 50 (–1.8%) and London’s FTSE 100 (–1.7%)
experienced a larger fall.
• Asian markets set the tone ahead of the New York and
London open, with significant pull-backs across Tokyo
(–2.0%), Hong Kong (–1.6%) and Shanghai (–1.1%). The
ASX 200 was relatively unscathed on Friday (–0.1%),

although this follows bigger losses and varied performances
across sectors post-Budget last week.
•  The sell-off in treasuries shifted into a higher gear at the end
of last week as nerves over the inflation outlook came to the
fore. Yields jumped higher and steepened across the curve,
but most notably, the 10-year yield surged to its highest in
nearly a year, to 4.59%. This comes as markets now start to
fully price in rate hikes from the Federal Reserve in 2027 (in

March), although nearer-term pricing remains little-changed.
• Bunds were also swept up in the action, with the 10-year
yield surging 12bps to 3.17%, the highest since 2011.
Gilts saw added selling pressure from political uncertainty
following local elections last week, with the 10-year yield
up 18bps to 5.17%, the highest since 2008. Across both
jurisdictions, market pricing for ECB and BoE rate hikes has
continued to firm, with another two expected from both

central banks this year.
• ACGB yields also rose during local trading but to a lesser
degree, with the 3-year up 5bps to 4.73% while the 10-
year is establishing a foothold with a 5-handle, up 5bps to
5.07%, the highest since 2011. Swaps markets are now fully
pricing in an RBA rate hike in September, with an earlier
move in August seen as an 85% chance.
• The USD rallied strongly against the uncertain backdrop,
with the DXY finishing 0.5% higher on Friday at 99.28. All

major currencies depreciated against the greenback albeit
to varying degrees, including the Euro (–0.4%) and Sterling
(–0.6%). The Yen’s decline was more modest at –0.2%,
although it is steadily encroaching back toward JPY159.
• Riskier currencies like the Aussie and Kiwi dollar suffered
larger blows, falling –1.0% and –1.2% respectively, with
both broadly stable in early trading this morning. The data
calendar is fairly quiet this week, the only major data for

the Aussie being the April labour force survey which could
be a bit weaker than expected. Outside of this, currency
action is likely to be centred on the USD leg stemming from
developments out of the Middle East
•  Crude oil prices rose to a near two-week high after the
Xi-Trump summit ended without any major concessions or
changes in the status quo. Brent and WTI rose 3.4% and
4.2% to US$109.26/bbl and US$105.42/bbl respectively.
•  Metals buckled under the pull-back in risk sentiment, with

LME copper, aluminium and nickel down –2.8%, –2.6% and
–2.1% respectively. With yields lifting and the USD rallying,
gold prices dropped –2.4% to be around US$4,540/oz.
International Data
In the US, the Empire State manufacturing survey surprised
in May, rising to a four-year high of 19.6 from 11.0. Firms grew
more optimistic about the outlook, margins were maintained
and new orders strengthened; however, labour demand
softened. These regional manufacturing surveys were also in

good health in April, setting up for a solid result for broader
industrial production , which rose 0.7%; durable goods drove
the gain, particularly a rebound in vehicle production, but
increased output of metals, minerals, agricultural equipment
and electronics also contributed.
Local Data
There was no major data out on Friday in Australia, but
Westpac published a preview of the April Labour Force
Survey, due to be released on Thursday (see here). In New

Zealand, April’s selected price indices was a bit softer than
expected, though a kick-up in inflation is still due mid-year
(see here).
Today’s key data and events
Time Event Exp Prev
8:30 NZ BusinessNZ PSI Apr - 46pts
9:01 GB Rightmove House Prices May - 0.8%
12:00 CN Retail Sales YoY YTD Apr - 2.4%
12:00 CN Industrial Production YoY YTD Apr - 6.1%
12:00 CN Fixed Asset Investment YoY YTD Apr 1.7% 1.7%
0:00 US NAHB Housing Market May 34pts 34pts
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise

specified. Forecasts for Australian data are our forecasts and for other countries they are
consensus forecasts.
Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

===== Page 130 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 131 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 132 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 133 =====

1
Westpac New Zealand Economics
Fiscal strategy unchanged, but more debt near term.
• Prior to the Iran war, Budget 2026 was set
to reveal a rare improvement in the fiscal
outlook. That is no longer the case.
• The Government has cut the operating
allowance for Budget 2026, but the conflict
will lift spending on items that sit outside
the allowance. It will also lead to slightly
lower revenue.
• The magnitude of the impact will depend on
the Treasury’s assumption about the duration

and implications of the conflict, which
is uncertain.
• We assume the Treasury’s economic forecast
will be pitched near the less severe end of the
range of scenarios that the Minister of Finance
presented last month.
• As a result, we expect the cumulative OBEGALx
deficit over the forecast period to rise by
around $8bn, with the largest deterioration
occurring in 2026/27.
• The Prime Minister has reaffirmed that the
Government’s fiscal strategy remains to

achieve an OBEGALx surplus in 2028/29. We
expect the Treasury will forecast a return to
surplus (just) in 2029/30.
• The net capital allowance for Budget 2026
has been raised to $5.7bn from $3.5bn
previously. This will add to the forecast
borrowing requirement.
• Depending on the spending assumption
from Budget 2027 onwards, we expect the
cumulative four-year financing requirement
will be around $7-9bn larger than forecast in
the HYEFU, with the programme for 2026/27

lifted by $2-3bn.
• Net core Crown debt will likely be projected to
peak at around 48% of GDP in 2028/29, before
declining gradually thereafter.
• We think that the outlook above would come
as no surprise to the credit rating agencies,
and on its own would be unlikely to cause a
ratings downgrade.
• Given the impending General Election, the
Treasury will need to publish a fiscal update
(the PREFU) by early October. Depending on
the path of the conflict, this could lead to

marked changes to the Budget forecasts.
The Minister of Finance, Nicola Willis, will present her
third Budget at 2pm on Thursday 28 May. At the beginning
of this year, we had thought that the Budget 2026 would
unveil a rare improvement in the fiscal outlook, with
the potential to return the OBEGALx measure of fiscal
balance back to surplus in 2028/29. This would have
been a year earlier than forecast in last year’s Half-Year
Economic and Fiscal Update (HYEFU), but consistent with

the revised strategy that the Government expressed in
the last Budget Policy Statement (BPS). Comments made
by the Minister and Prime Minister last month suggest
that this would indeed have been the case.
Unfortunately, Budget 2026 will be set against the
background of the ongoing Middle East conflict. As we set
out in our own recent Economic Overview, this conflict
seems set to dampen – but not derail – the economic
recovery that began to take hold during the second half

of last year. Comments made by the Minister of Finance
ECONOMIC BULLETIN
Preview of New Zealand Budget 2026,
28 May 2:00pm.
14 May 2026 | Darren Gibbs, Senior Economist | +64 9 367 3368 | +64 21 794 292 | darren.gibbs@westpac.co.nz

===== Page 134 =====

2
Westpac New Zealand Economics
suggest that this will also be the Treasury’s assessment.
As a result, a favourable revision to the fiscal outlook no
longer seems likely. Importantly, the Prime Minister has
confirmed this week that the Government’s fiscal strategy
remains unchanged – that is, to work towards achieving
an OBEGALx surplus in 2028/29 and therefore to set the
fiscal stance on a course that would eventually reduce
net core Crown debt to below 40% of GDP .

The rest of this note sets out our expectations for Budget
2026. We caution that there is significant uncertainty
about the key economic assumptions that the Treasury
will use in compiling the fiscal forecasts – most notably
about the path of the conflict from here and the
implications for energy prices, global growth and the
impact on New Zealand’s economic outlook. And actual
outcomes could prove markedly different to the Budget
forecasts if developments in the Middle East invalidate

whatever assumptions the Treasury has made.
A favourable starting point.
One source of good news is that actual fiscal outturns
have been tracking favourably compared with the HYEFU
forecast, at least through to March. For the first nine
months of the fiscal year the OBEGALx deficit stands at
$7.8bn, which is $2.1bn smaller than the Treasury had
expected based on the HYEFU full-year forecast deficit
of $13.9bn. While core Crown tax revenue is running a

modest $0.4bn below forecast, core Crown expenses
are running $1.3bn below forecast due to lower-than-
expected spending across a range of functions. In
addition, the combined operating balance of the
various SOEs and other Crown entities is running $1.3bn
above forecast.
Importantly, the core Crown residual cash deficit –
which is more closely tied to the Government’s actual
bond financing needs – is also tracking favourably. The
deficit of $5.0bn in the nine months to March was $2.7bn

smaller than the Treasury had expected. According to
the Treasury, this reflects a combination of higher-than-
expected tax receipts, lower-than-expected operating
outlays and lower-than-expected net capital outflows.
As a result, net core Crown debt of $187.8bn was $3.4bn
lower than forecast in the HYEFU at 42.2% of GDP .
While some of this favourable variation is likely to be a
matter of timing, and some will likely be eroded over the
final quarter of the 2025/26 fiscal year due to the weaker

economic conditions that now prevail, it seems likely that
the fiscal outturn for 2025/26 will be no worse than the
HYEFU forecast.
Maintaining tight control of the controllable.
This week the Prime Minister announced that the
operating allowance for Budget 2026 has been revised
down to $2.1bn from the $2.4bn signalled in the HYEFU.
Across the four years of the forecast, this will save the
Government $1.2bn. This represents a very tight operating

allowance by historical standards, especially in inflation-
adjusted terms. Given existing precommitments, this will
leave well under $1bn per year, on average, to fund new
initiatives. Any additional initiatives will need to be funded
by ongoing savings and reprioritisations within existing
departmental baselines.
At this stage we have been given no guidance as to
whether the Budget 2026 operating allowance of $2.1bn
will be assumed to apply to future budgets too (rather

than the $2.4bn per year allowance that was assumed
in the HYEFU). It is possible that the Government could
assume a similarly tight operating allowance at each
of the following three budgets, in part to appease the
increased concern that rating agencies have expressed
about the lack of fiscal consolidation (more on this
below). If so, the total fiscal saving across the four-
year forecast period will amount to $3bn, and baseline
spending in 2029/30 would be $1.2bn lower than

would otherwise be the case. This would lower the
Government’s borrowing requirement commensurately.
Iran war fiscal transmission channels.
Unfortunately, the conflict in the Middle East will
negatively affect the Government’s finances through
a variety of channels that sit outside of its immediate
control (although in principle these impacts could be
offset by discretionary policy actions).
While the Government can control departmental
spending through its setting of the operating allowance,

this only covers a portion of total spending. Notably,
social security and welfare payments and debt servicing
costs – which comprise around 40% of core government
spending – sit outside the operating allowance.
• A weaker outlook for the economy over the coming
year will translate to an increased number of work-
related benefit recipients. More significantly, the lift in
inflation this year will increase the cost of all benefits,
with next year’s inflation adjustment on 1 April likely to

be around twice as large as the Treasury had expected
in the HYEFU.
• Interest rates are tracking well above the Treasury’s
HYEFU forecast. For example, the HYEFU had assumed
an average 10-year bond rate of 4.0% in the current
quarter compared with the current yield of around
4.75%. If the Treasury lifts its forecasts of interest
rates for at least the next year or two, as seems likely,
this will raise estimated financing costs over time as
new debt is issued and existing debt is refinanced.

Refinancing costs will also be raised to the extent
that other transmission channels lead to larger
fiscal deficits.
The Iran war will also impact forecasts of tax revenue.

===== Page 135 =====

3
Westpac New Zealand Economics
• In the near term, a weaker outlook for employment
will generate weaker growth in personal income tax
receipts, which account for around half of all tax
revenue raised. However, if higher near-term inflation
allows some employees to obtain compensation
for that inflation, the resulting rise in wage growth
will provide at least a partial offset over time (and
potentially more than fully offset the employment
impact, with fiscal drag contributing to tax revenues as

more people move into higher marginal tax brackets).
• Pressures on disposable incomes and precautionary
saving will likely lead to lower volumes of consumer
spending, thus tending to reduce GST revenue (which
accounts for around a quarter of all tax). However,
given that GST is levied on nominal spending, rather
than real, higher inflation will work in the opposite
direction. If there is little precautionary saving and
nominal spending is unchanged, then there could be

little impact on GST revenues.
• The implications for corporate tax seem more
straightforward. To the extent that cost increases
cannot be passed through to the consumer, a
reduction in corporate profitability will lead to a period
of lower corporate tax payments.
• Finally, there are also likely to be impacts on some
smaller sources of revenue. For example, withholding
taxes on interest income will be lifted by higher
interest rates, providing a partial offset to the lift in the

Government’s financing costs.
So what does this mean for the operating
balance?
Given all the moving parts, forecasting the fiscal
aggregates is a difficult task at the best of times,
with small differences in assumptions about growth
in spending and revenue quickly compounding into
large changes in the forecast borrowing programme.
Forecasting what the Treasury will publish as its forecast
is fraught with even greater difficulty, as there is
significant uncertainty about what the Treasury will have

assumed about the path of the Middle East conflict, let
alone the Treasury’s assessment of how the economy
might be impacted by a given conflict scenario.
That said, we think that some guidance can be taken from
the scenarios that the Minister of Finance presented at a
press conference on 24 April. These scenarios, developed
by the Treasury in late March, illustrated different paths
for the economy dependent on three possible paths for
oil prices (see Table 1). Her presentation also confirmed

that the Treasury’s pre-war “base” economic forecast was
more positive than that in the HYEFU.
The oil price was sitting just under $110/bbl in late April
when the Treasury reopened and then finalised the
economic forecasts that will underpin Budget 2026.
Therefore, our best guess is that the Treasury will
have positioned its final economic forecast close to
Scenario 1 (which had assumed a $110/bbl oil price) but
with a probable nod towards Scenario 2. The Treasury’s

Scenario 1, while weaker than the pre-war forecast, was
in fact similar to the HYEFU forecast. However, as the
economic forecast leans further towards Scenario 2,
the outlook for activity in 2026/27 becomes notably
weaker. That said, this weakness is largely reversed in
2027/28 when conditions in the oil market are assumed
to normalise. If replicated in Budget 2026, such a forecast
profile would significantly mitigate the damage to the
medium-term fiscal projections.

Given the above, if the Government retains a $2.4bn
operating allowance assumption for future budgets, our
best guess is that Budget 2026 will show the following:
• A cumulative deterioration in the OBEGALx balance
of just over $8bn over the next four years, with the
largest impact (around $3bn) in the 2026/27 year and
the difference compared with the HYEFU decaying
over time.
Table 1: Treasury pre-Budget forecast scenarios
HYEFU 2025 Base Scenario 1 Scenario 2 Scenario 3

GDP
25/26 2.0 2.3 2.0 1.5 0.8
26/27 3.5 3.3 3.4 2.6 1.7
27/28 2.6 2.7 3.0 3.7 4.4
Inflation
25/26 2.4 2.7 3.9 5.2 7.4
26/27 2.2 2.3 1.5 1.8 2.1
27/28 2.1 2.2 2.1 1.4 1.2
Unemployment rate
25/26 5.3 5.3 5.3 5.4 5.7
26/27 4.8 4.7 4.7 5.5 6.6
27/28 4.6 4.4 4.3 4.7 5.4
Base = Pre-War forecast; Crude oil = $110/bbl in Scenario 1, $135/bbl in Scenario 2, $180/bbl in Scenario 3
Arrows indicate direction of change since HYEFU forecast
Source: NZ Treasury

===== Page 136 =====

4
Westpac New Zealand Economics
• Cumulative core Crown spending around $4bn higher
than forecast in the HYEFU, roughly equally divided
between higher social welfare spending and higher
debt financing costs.
• Cumulative core Crown tax revenue a little over $4bn
lower than in the HYEFU, assuming cumulative nominal
GDP is around $15bn lower than the HYEFU forecast.
• A small OBEGALx surplus of just under $1bn achieved
in 2029/30, compared with the $2.3bn surplus forecast

in the HYEFU.
• Net core Crown debt will likely be projected to peak
at around 48% of GDP in 2028/29, before declining
gradually thereafter.
Operating balance (OBEGALx), % of GDP
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029
Actual
HYEFU
Budget 2026 (Westpac forecast)
Forecast
% of GDP % of GDP
Source: NZ Treasury, Westpac
What about capex?
In a speech this week, the Prime Minister also announced
that the net capital spending allowance would be

$5.7bn. This is $2.2bn larger than had been signalled
previously. The Prime Minister’s comments indicates
that some of the additional investment will be used to
improve New Zealand’s national energy security and
to provide some of the funding needed to progress the
Government’s Defence Capability Plan (which envisages
a significant uplift in defence spending, much of which
will be new capital spending). We assume that Budget
2026 will continue to forecast $3.5bn of new capital

spending in future budgets. We think actual spending will
be eventually prove higher, but this may not be reflected
in Budget forecasts until decisions are made regarding
some of the more costly defence investments (such as
the proposed frigate replacement programme).
The bottom line for bonds: $7-9bn additional
issuance.
Putting this all together, we have:
• A roughly $8bn increase in the cumulative OBEGALx
balance; and
• A roughly $2bn increase in the capital budget; but

• A probable slight overfunding of the cash requirement
in 2025/26.
As a result, we think that additional issuance forecast by
the Treasury over the coming four years is most likely to
be around $9bn above the HYEFU forecast. However, it
could be around $2bn less if the operating allowances
from Budget 2027 onwards are lowered to match the
Budget 2026 operating allowance. Assuming some
smoothing between years, Table 2 sets out a plausible
forecast for the bond programme. This would see a

$3bn increase in the forecast programme for the coming
2026/27 year (lifting the programme to $37bn) and a
$2bn increase in the forecast programme over each
of the subsequent three years. If the overall additional
funding requirement proves to be closer to $7bn, then the
coming year’s programme would likely be raised by $2bn
to $36bn.
What will the credit rating agencies think?
Reflecting the weaker fiscal outlook, last month
Moody’s joined Fitch in attaching a negative outlook to

New Zealand’s sovereign credit rating. Both Moody’s and
Fitch currently assign New Zealand a higher rating than
forecast by their respective models, with both agencies
granting a discretionary uplift based on an assessment
that the weakening of New Zealand’s fiscal metrics will
improve over time (a view based on New Zealand’s past
success in correcting fiscal imbalances). The recent
assignment of a negative outlook clearly indicates that
these agencies are considering removing that uplift due

to the ongoing delay in returning the fiscal books back
to surplus.
If Budget 2026 is broadly in line with our expectations, we
expect that it will also be broadly in line with the revised
expectations of the ratings agencies too. So, barring a
further major deterioration in the outlook, we would not
expect to see further actions taken by either Moody’s
Table 2: NZ Government financing requirement ($bn)
24/25 25/26f 26/27f 27/28f 28/29f 29/30f
Bonds

HYEFU 42.6 35.0 34.0 34.0 32.0 30.0
Budget 2025 (Westpac forecast) 42.6 35.0 37.0 36.0 34.0 32.0
Difference 0.0 0.0 +3.0 +2.0 +2.0 +2.0
Source: NZ Treasury

===== Page 137 =====

5
Westpac New Zealand Economics
or Fitch this year (it is possible that Standard and Poor’s
could revise its outlook, although we note that its current
AA+ rating is not founded on a discretionary uplift). It
seems more likely that the ratings agencies will reassess
the outlook in 2027, potentially after the winner of this
year’s General Election delivers Budget 2027.
Next update likely in October.
Ahead of the General Election on 7 November, the

Treasury will need to publish a Pre-Election Economic
and Fiscal Update (PREFU). The PREFU needs to be
published between 20-30 working days before election
day. Based on history, this is most likely to occur in early
October. So, depending on developments in the Middle
East, a substantial rework of the fiscal outlook (and bond
programme) could emerge just four months after the
release of Budget 2026.
Finally, should a PREFU be released on or after 1 October,

it is worth noting that there will be no legislative
requirement to publish a further fiscal update until the
release of Budget 2027 in May next year, i.e. there will
likely be no HYEFU released at the end of this year.

===== Page 138 =====

Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, the forecasts
may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from these forecasts.
Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141
(including where acting under any of its Westpac, St George,
Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).

References to the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and
its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know.
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand
Privacy Policy here, or the Australian Group Privacy
Statement here. Each time someone visits our site, data is
captured so that we can accurately evaluate the quality of our
content and make improvements for you. We may at times

use technology to capture data about you to help us to better
understand you and your needs, including potentially for
the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other
reading material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is
under copyright of the Westpac Group. None of the material,
nor its contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way,

transmitted to, copied of distributed to any other party without
the prior written permission of the Westpac Group.

reflect any recommendation or financial advice and investment
decisions should not be based on it. This information does not
constitute an offer, a solicitation of an offer, or an inducement

to subscribe for, purchase or sell any financial instrument or
to enter into a legally binding contract. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared
without taking into account your objectives, financial situation
or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions,
including those involving futures, options and high yield
securities give rise to substantial risk and are not suitable

material. Although we have made every effort to ensure this
information is free from error, none of Westpac or its related
entities warrants the accuracy, adequacy or completeness of
this information, or otherwise endorses it in any way. Except
where contrary to law, Westpac Group intend by this notice to
exclude liability for this information. This information is subject
to change without notice and none of Westpac or its related

entities is under any obligation to update this information
or correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a
later date. This information may contain or incorporate by
reference forward looking statements. The words “believe”,
“anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”,
“assume”, “positioned”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk”
and other similar expressions that are predictions of or indicate

===== Page 139 =====

a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts
of future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken
to ensure that the assumptions on which any forecasts are
based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by
incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and
uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ substantially
from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may

act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker,
underwriter, distributor, swap counterparty and calculation
agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial instrument,
giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact
the performance of a financial instrument. The Westpac Group
may at any time transact or hold a position (including hedging
and trading positions) for its own account or the account of
a client in any financial instrument which may impact the

that (a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be,
directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material
accurately reflects his/her personal views about the financial
products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on
sources reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c)
to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in receipt
of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has
made any attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability-
related content: This material may contain statements
relating to environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics.
These are subject to known and unknown risks, and there are
significant uncertainties, limitations, risks and assumptions in
the metrics, modelling, data, scenarios, reporting and analysis

completeness or reliability of the information. There is a risk
that the analysis, estimates, judgements, assumptions, views,
models, scenarios or projections used may turn out to be
incorrect. These risks may cause actual outcomes to differ
materially from those expressed or implied. The ESG-related
statements in this material do not constitute advice, nor are
they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services
Licence (No. 233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial
Services Guide here or request a copy from your Westpac
point of contact. To the extent that this information contains
any general advice, it has been prepared without taking into
account your objectives, financial situation or needs and
before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of
the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank

refers to the brand under which products and services
are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac
New Zealand Limited (company number 1763882), the
New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac (“WNZL ”).
Any product or service made available by WNZL does not
represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL
in respect of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable

Singapore laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this
material in Singapore should contact Westpac Singapore
Branch in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection
with, this material. Westpac Singapore Branch holds a
wholesale banking licence and is subject to supervision by the
Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services
for Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com. fj
© Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This

information does not take your personal circumstances
into account and before acting on it you should consider
the appropriateness of the information for your financial
situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is
incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in
Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the
products and services for Westpac PNG are available from
www. westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation

ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not take your
personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information
for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is
represented in Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG -
Limited. The liability of its members is limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as

Comptroller of the Currency. Westpac is also registered with
the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as
a Swap Dealer, but is neither registered as, or affiliated with,
a Futures Commission Merchant registered with the US CFTC.
The services and products referenced above are not insured by
the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Westpac
Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned subsidiary of
Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S. Securities

Exchange Act of 1934 (‘the Exchange Act’) and member
of the Financial Industry Regulatory Authority (‘FINRA’). In

accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM

===== Page 140 =====

8
Westpac New Zealand Economics
other than as provided for in certain legal agreements between
Westpac and WCM and obligations of WCM do not represent
liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S.
institutional investors in reliance on the exemption from
registration provided by Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act
and is not subject to all of the independence and disclosure
standards applicable to debt research reports prepared

for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the U.S.
distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility
for the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S.
customers of any securities referenced herein should be
effected through WCM. All disclaimers set out with respect
to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If you would like to speak
to someone regarding any security mentioned herein, please
contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any non-U.S.

securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of
non-U.S. issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to
the regulations of, the SEC in the United States. Information
on such non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments
may be limited. Non-U.S. companies may not be subject to
audit and reporting standards and regulatory requirements
comparable to those in effect in the United States. The value

of any investment or income from any securities or related
derivative instruments denominated in a currency other than
U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from
such securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac
and is not registered or qualified as a research analyst,
representative, or associated person of WCM or any other

self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or regulations
of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ
from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is
subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)

and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register
number: 124586). The London branch of Westpac is registered
at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent
of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch by the PRA are
available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to,
and must not be passed on to, the general public in the United
Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to

and is directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition
of Investment Professionals (set out in Article 19(5) of the
Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion)
Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those persons falling within
the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in
accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may

otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being
referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a
relevant person should not act or rely on this communication
or any of its contents. In the same way, the information
contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the
rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for
“retail clients”. Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing

on the information in this communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may
be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii)
Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing
arrangement. WEG has not edited or otherwise modified the
content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject
to its regulation. WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin and

the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’). WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of
the local court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number
HRB 118483. In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard
222 ‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not
stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain legal
agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral
agreement) between Westpac and WEG and obligations of

WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac. Any product or
service made available by WEG does not represent an offer
from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally
to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or
use by any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country
where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law
or regulation.
This communication contains general commentary, research,

and market colour. The communication does not constitute
investment advice. The material may contain an ‘investment

recommendation’ and/or ‘information recommending or
suggesting an investment’, both as defined in Regulation (EU)
No 596/2014 (including as applicable in the United Kingdom)
(“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant provisions of MAR,
reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the material has
been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts of
interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to
which that information relates have been disclosed.

fulfils certain additional information requirements of MAR
and associated delegated legislation and by accepting this
communication you acknowledge that you are aware of the
existence of such additional disclosure and its contents.
To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent
research. It has not been prepared in accordance with legal
requirements designed to promote the independence of

investment research and therefore constitutes a marketing
communication. Further, this communication is not subject
to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 141 =====

Westpac Banking Corporation.

===== Page 142 =====

#wages #inflation #labour
Q1 Wage Price Index: public wages moderate
By Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac
13:30 May 13 2026 Share
The Wage Price Index (WPI) rose 0.8% in Q1 2026, in line with Westpac’s forecast and the
market consensus. Growth in private sector wages has continued to moderate gradually,
while growth in public sector wages has eased back following some larger gains over last
year.

===== Page 143 =====

The Wage Price Index (WPI) rose 0.8% in Q1 2026, in line with Westpac’s forecast and the market
consensus. This was a ‘thin’ 0.8%, in the sense that the result was 0.75% at two decimal places, close
to the rounding barrier. Revisions to seasonal factors were insignificant, so the annual pace eased
back from 3.4%yr to 3.3%yr just as expected.
While the annual pace has broadly bumped around this level for the past year or so, inspecting the
momentum more closely reveals that the current annual pace is actually the softest since Q4 2024 –

before the bump higher in public sector wages that took place over 2025 (as discussed in more detail
below).
In terms of the distribution, this slowing in wages growth is coming from a smaller share of jobs
recording ‘faster’ wage gains. The ABS noted that only 22% of jobs recorded an annualised wage gain
of more than 4% in Q1 2026, which is the lowest proportion since Q2 2022.
Wages by Sector
By sector, private wages (excl. bonuses) have continued to track a gradual downtrend. In Q1, private

wages grew by 0.8%, matching the increase over the previous three quarters. However, this is still a
smaller gain than a year ago, meaning the annual pace eased back from 3.4%yr to 3.2%yr, which is
the slowest pace so far in the current cycle. The drop was even larger for the measure that includes
bonuses (3.3%yr to 2.9%yr) – while noisier, a faster pull-back in this measure may signal that an

===== Page 144 =====

easing momentum remains in place.
Compared to the same quarter a year ago, the private sector saw a smaller share of jobs record a
wage increase (13% vs. 15%), and of those jobs, they recorded a smaller average hourly wage change
(4.0% vs. 4.3%).
Meanwhile in the public sector, wages growth only gained 0.5% in Q1 2026, the smallest quarterly
increase in two years. As a result, the annual growth pace dropped sharply, from 4.0%yr to 3.3%yr.
This effectively closes the gap between private and public sector wages growth, after the latter bumped

higher over 2025 due to state-based enterprise agreements and increases in aged care wages – with
those larger gains now cycling out of the base of comparison, the annual pace of public sector wages
is pulling back.
Indeed, compared to the same quarter a year ago, there was a much smaller proportion of jobs that
recorded a wage increase (21% vs. 39%), and of those jobs, the average hourly wage change was
also noticeably smaller (3.0% vs. 3.3%).
The earlier impact of state-based enterprise agreements can also be seen in the fact that the

contribution of state governments to the latest quarterly wage increase less than half than that of a year
ago (+1.1ppt vs. +0.4ppt).

===== Page 145 =====

Industry
Unsurprisingly, Australia’s largest employer – health care and social services – was responsible for
most of the increase in quarterly wages. Recall that this is split across both the private and public
sector, as many services are publicly funded but delivered by a private provider. The ABS noted that a
“major Commonwealth funded initiative in the Early Childhood Education and Care workforce saw
wage rises paid in the private sector for this industry, while Queensland hospital health care workers

were the main driver of public growth”, similar to last quarter.
Annual wages growth is running fastest in the utilities sector (4.3%yr), although it is a fairly small
employer, followed by mining, public administration and safety, and other services (3.7%yr), then health
care and social assistance (3.6%yr).
Bargaining Stream
Westpac has long believed focusing on wage inflation by wage bargaining stream can help to
understand how wages respond to the economic cycle. Long term readers would know that the

Australian labour market is split into three categories of pay setting methods:
In original terms, the WPI lifted 0.6% in Q1. The largest share of Australian wage adjustments tends to
occur in the September quarter, with July being the start of the new financial year. The following data is
reported in original (not seasonally adjusted) terms.
Of the 0.6% increase in the WPI, jobs covered by enterprise arrangements made the largest
contribution at 0.28ppt, compared to 0.25ppt for individual arrangements and 0.01ppt for awards. With

most individually arranged pay setting occurring in the private sector, this stream has an outsized
influence on private sector wages.
Awards,
Enterprise agreements, or
Individual arrangements.

===== Page 146 =====

Overall, the update came in broadly in line with our expectations. Growth in private sector wages has
continued to moderate gradually, while growth in public sector wages has eased back following some
larger gains over last year. While the RBA pointed to the labour market as a key source of inflationary
risk in recent quarters, the debate has now shifted with the onset of the Middle East conflict.
Higher inflation and interest rates will weigh on economic growth and bring more slack into the labour

market. This should put some downward pressure on wages growth over the period ahead, but the
extent to which that will materialise will partly depend on the outcome of the upcoming Fair Work
Commission’s (FWC) Annual Wage Review. It will impact wages growth in Q3 as adjustments are put
through the start of the new financial year from 1 July. In 2025, the FWC provided a 3.5% increase,
lower than the 3.75% decision in 2024 and the 5.75% decision in 2023. We are currently assuming a

4.25% increase announcement for 2026, which is embedded in our forecast for a 0.8% gain in the WPI
for Q3.
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.

===== Page 147 =====

Related articles
Subscribe
Wages are tracking as expected
February 18 2026 • 5 mins
#wages
By Justin Smirk

===== Page 148 =====

Private sector wages moderating as expected
November 19 2025 • 5 mins
#wages
By Justin Smirk
#wages

===== Page 149 =====

Wages are not a risk to the RBA outlook
August 13 2025 • 5 mins
By Justin Smirk
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 150 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 151 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 152 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 153 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 154 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 155 =====

LABOUR MARKET CHARTPACK
8 May 2026

===== Page 156 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
2
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us
Key points – March quarter 2026
• The Q1 labour market surveys added to the evidence that the New Zealand economy was
starting to find its footing again, at least prior to the Iran conflict.
• The unemployment rate ticked down from 5.4% to 5.3%, its first decline since December
2021. This was better than the flat outturn that we and the market were expecting, though

the ‘surprise’ was well within the margin of error. The broader underutilisation rate was
steady at 12.9%.
• The number of people employed rose by 0.2% for the quarter, while labour force
participation fell slightly to 70.4%. While this combination is unusual, it was largely driven by
a small group – youth participation appears to have been overstated in the previous quarter,
and was unwound this time.
• There was a further lift in average hours per worker, bringing it closer to pre-Covid levels.

In the early stages of an economic recovery, it’s not surprising to see businesses trying to
get more out of their existing workers, before resorting to more hiring. Indeed, the rate of
movement between labour force status provides a stark demonstration of the “no-fire, no-
hire” economy.
• Given the existing degree of slack in the labour market, wage inflation remains subdued and
largely limited to cost-of-living adjustments.
• There was little in these surveys to concern the RBNZ ahead of its next policy review on 27

May. While the RBNZ is on alert for any signs of inflation pressures beyond the direct impact
of the spike in fuel prices, wage inflation is literally the last place that this is likely to show up.

===== Page 157 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
3
Employment
• The number of people employed rose by 0.2% in the March quarter, according to the
Household Labour Force Survey (HLFS). Employment was up 0.4% compared to a year ago.
• The HLFS result was in line with the 0.2% rise in filled jobs from the Monthly Employment
Indicator (MEI), a comprehensive measure based on income tax data. While there are some
differences in coverage for these two measures, any divergence between the two is most

likely to reflect sampling error in the HLFS.
• The employer-focused Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) was similarly positive, recording
a 0.7% rise in full-time equivalent workers and 0.6% gains in filled jobs and hours paid.
• All of these measures are broadly consistent with our forecast of a 0.8% rise in GDP for the
quarter (which we expect will be partly boosted by seasonal distortions).
HLFS number of people employed
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7

-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2002 2006 2010 2014 2018 2022 2026
% %
Quarterly change
Annual change
Source: Stats NZ
Monthly Employment Indicator filled jobs
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
2.00
2.05
2.10
2.15
2.20
2.25
2.30
2.35
2.40
2.45
2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
%Million
Monthly % change (right axis)
Number of jobs (left axis)
Source: Stats NZ
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 158 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
4
Unemployment
• The unemployment rate ticked down from 5.4% to 5.3% in the March quarter. This was the
first decline, albeit small, after four years of increases.
• The broader underutilisation measure (which includes discouraged jobseekers and part-
time workers wanting more hours) was steady at 12.9%.
• We would place the ‘neutral’ unemployment rate (i.e. the rate associated with low and
stable inflation) at around the 4.0-4.5% range. This suggests there is a substantial degree of

spare capacity in the labour market, with limited upward pressure on wages.
• The unemployment rate reflects the balance of movements in and out of the workforce. In
that respect, we’re seeing an unusually large divergence in conditions. The rate of job losses
has fallen back to levels that, in the past, would have actually associated with a tight labour
market. But for those who are already out of work, it's harder to get back in than it has been

for decades. This is the “no-fire, no-hire” labour market.
Unemployment and underutilisation rates
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2004 2007 2010 2013 2016 2019 2022 2025
%%
Unemployment rate (left axis)
Underutilisation rate (right axis)
Source: Stats NZ
Labour force status transition rates
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
1986 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2021 2026
%%
Moving from employed to unemployed (left axis)
Remaining unemployed (right axis)

Source: Stats NZ
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 159 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
5
Labour force participation
• The participation rate fell from 70.5% to 70.4% in the March quarter. That partly reversed a
surprising increase in the December quarter.
• Our analysis found that the rise in participation in the December quarter was limited to
people under 25 – the survey appears to have captured an unusually high number of
students who were working during the school holidays. As we expected, this result was

unwound in the March quarter as the next academic year began.
• Beyond the normal quarterly volatility, labour force participation is driven by both cyclical
and structural forces. As the economy regains momentum, we would expect to see
participation rise as people are attracted back into the job hunt.
• Over the longer term, labour force participation faces a tug of war between an aging
workforce (more than a fifth of the working-age population is now over 65) and an increasing

tendency for people to continue working for longer.
Unemployment and participation rates
64
65
66
67
68
69
70
71
72
73
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2005 2007 2009 2011 2013 2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025
%%
Unemployment rate (left axis)
Participation rate (right axis)
Source: Stats NZ
Participation by age group
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026
%%
15-19 years  20-24 years  25 and over
Source: Stats NZ

Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 160 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
6
Population and migration
• The working-age population grew by 1.0% over the last year, compared to a peak of 3.3%
growth over 2023. Jobs growth is still lagging behind population growth on an annual basis.
• The pool of potential workers is generally becoming older, with the Baby Boomers
increasingly reaching pension age and beyond, and with migrant arrivals tending to be an
older cohort than we saw pre-Covid – more in their 30s and 40s than their 20s.

• Net migration flows have started to pick up from their lows in recent months. Departures
of New Zealanders have come down from their highs, though they remain above pre-Covid
levels, as the relative appeal of the Australian jobs market has narrowed.
• Foreign arrivals have picked up to some degree, although the growth appears to have been
mostly driven by the Parent Boost Visa rather than work visas.
Employment and working-age population
-4
-3
-2

-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020 2024
%yr
Filled jobs growth
Working-age population growth
Source: Stats NZ
%yr
Monthly migration flows
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Jan-22 Jul-22 Jan-23 Jul-23 Jan-24 Jul-24 Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26
000s000s
Net migration
Arrivals
Departures
Source: Stats NZ
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 161 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
7
Work conditions
• The HLFS recorded a 0.8% increase in the total number of hours worked in the March
quarter, another solid result on top of the 1.2% rise in the previous quarter.
• Respondents’ usual hours rose by a more modest 0.4%. The implication is that more
workers are returning to something closer to their normal hours as the economy picks up
again. This is a typical response in the early stages of an upturn – employers may look to get

more out of their existing workers before hiring new ones.
• Trends in hybrid working have been largely unchanged since 2022 when Covid restrictions
were lifted. Around two-thirds of employees work solely outside the home, with just over
20% having some form of hybrid working arrangement.
• Around 20% of employees work part-time – a share that has increased slightly in the last
couple of years, but has been trending down over the longer term. Around 7% of employees

work multiple jobs, a share that has been steady over time. More commonly this is self-
employment (i.e. ‘side hustles’) rather than paid work.
Usual vs actual hours worked
80
82
84
86
88
90
92
94
96
98
100
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024
%millions
Usual hours worked
Actual hours worked
% of usual (right axis)
Source: Stats NZ
Share of employment by work location
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Jun-20 Jun-21 Jun-22 Jun-23 Jun-24 Jun-25

%%
Only at workplace
Only at home
Hybrid working
Source: Stats NZ
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 162 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
8
Hiring
• Business confidence surveys were showing a strong lift in hiring intentions by the end of
2025, in keeping with the overall improving mood about the economic outlook.
• This has started to come through in job advertisements, which were up around 10% in the
March quarter compared to a year ago. That said, the level is still well below what we’d
associate with a ‘strong’ labour market, where advertisements will reflect a high degree of

churn as well as new job creation.
• Vacancies for skilled roles initially saw more of an upturn, consistent with feedback from
businesses that workers are becoming harder to find again for certain specialised positions.
More recently there has been an uptick for unskilled roles, as sectors such as construction
and manufacturing have started to turn the corner.
• The uncertainty generated by the Iran conflict has led to a sharp drop in business
confidence, with an accompanying drop in stated hiring intentions. Whether this proves to

be the case will depend on how quickly the conflict resolves.
Business employment intentions
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
2000 2004 2008 2012 2016 2020 2024
Net %Net %
Next 3 months (QSBO)
Next 12 months (ANZBO)
Sources: NZIER, ANZ
Job advertisements
0
50
100
150
200
250
0
50
100
150
200
250
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024
IndexIndex
Skilled jobs
Unskilled jobs
Total
Sources: Macrobond, MBIE
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 163 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
9
Sectoral and regional trends
• Jobs growth has been stronger in government-connected sectors such as healthcare
and education, as well as in local and central government administration. Sectors with
connections to international tourism, such as transport and recreational services, have also
seen solid growth.
• Construction and manufacturing sector employment have fallen substantially since late
2023, though there are signs that they have bottomed out in recent months.

• Employment trends have generally been more positive in the South Island than the North,
which likely reflects the greater influence of the agricultural sector – while not a large
employer in itself, farmers have benefited from high export prices and their spending has
flowed into other sectors.
• The rate of unemployment has been broadly steady across the South Island over the last
couple of years, compared to the rise in the North Island (and hence in the national average).

Filled jobs by sector, annual % change
-5% -4% -3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3%
Media and telcos
Rental and real estate
Construction
Manufacturing
Professional services
Wholesale trade
Retail trade
Admin services
Utilities
Hospitality
Other services
Finance
Education
Transport
Agriculture
Healthcare
Mining
Arts and recreation
Public administration
Source: Stats NZ
Regional unemployment rates
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Northland
Auckland
Waikato
Bay of Plenty

Gisborne/Hawke's Bay
Taranaki
Manawatu-Whanganui
Wellington
Tas/Nel/West Coast
Canterbury
Otago
Southland
%%
Mar-25 Mar-26
Source: Stats NZ
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 164 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
10
Wages
• The Labour Cost Index (LCI) rose by 0.5% in the March quarter. Annual growth remained at
2.0%, the lowest since March 2021.
• The distribution of pay rates has returned to pre-Covid trends. Only 44% of roles saw
a pay rise over the last year; of those roles that did see an increase, the average size is
converging on the 2-3% range, compared to the larger increases that were more common in
previous years.
• The LCI is not a measure of what workers are actually receiving – it reflects the cost to

businesses for a given unit of labour – and hence shouldn’t be compared to the inflation
rate. A more suitable measure is the unadjusted analytical LCI, which includes pay rises that
are related to productivity gains. This measure slowed from 3.3% to 3.1% on an annual basis,
also the lowest since March 2021.
• Another measure, the QES average hourly earnings, slowed from 3.3% to 3.1% in the year
to March, after having picked up briefly in early 2025. This measure is not adjusted for the

composition of jobs and is more volatile than the LCI.
Measures of wage growth
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2003 2006 2009 2012 2015 2018 2021 2024
%yr%yr
Labour Cost Index
Analytical unadjusted LCI
Quarterly Employment Survey
Source: Stats NZ
Distribution of labour costs
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
1994 1998 2002 2006 2010 2014 2018 2022 2026
%%
Share of roles with no pay increase
Share of roles with 2-3% pay increase
Source: Stats NZ

Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 165 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
11
Employment confidence
• The Westpac-McDermott Miller employment confidence survey for the March quarter
showed a modest improvement in households’ perceptions about the jobs market. The
Employment Confidence Index rose by 1.8 points to 95.4, the highest reading since early
2024. However, it remains only slightly above the lows seen after the first Covid lockdown
in 2020.
• Perceptions about current job opportunities improved further in March. However,

households were less confident about the outlook for jobs in the year ahead. (The survey
was held in early March, at the start of the Iran conflict.)
• Workers’ perceptions about their own job security was mildly positive on balance.
The improvement was among men and older workers, while younger workers were
more circumspect.
• Conditions were seen as mixed across the country. Notably, there was more of an
improvement across the North Island this time, though economic conditions in general

remain stronger in the South.
Employment confidence and unemployment
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
1002.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0
2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026
Net %%
Unemployment rate (left axis)
Current job opportunities
(inverted, right axis)
Sources: Westpac-McDermott Miller, Stats NZ
Data adjusted from
Sep 2019 due to
structural break
Perceived job security over the coming year
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
-20
-10
0
10
20

30
40
2005 2009 2013 2017 2021 2025
Net %Net %
Source: Westpac-McDermott Miller
Net response:
Those saying “more”
minus those saying “less”
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 166 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
12
International comparisons
• New Zealand’s unemployment rate is the 18th lowest in the OECD (out of 38 countries). This
ranking has remained unchanged over the last year or so.
• Notably, New Zealand’s unemployment rate has risen substantially above Australia’s,
whereas historically it has been lower on average. This shift in relative job opportunities has
been a key attractor for New Zealanders over the last couple of years – as it was in the early

2010s when the Australian economy was benefiting from a boom in mining construction.
• New Zealand has the 7th highest employment rate in the OECD (down from 6th last quarter).
We tend to have high rates of labour force participation for 15-64 year olds, and particularly
high participation for the over-65s, as the lack of means testing for NZ Superannuation
means there is no financial disincentive to working beyond pension age.
Selected unemployment rates

0% 2% 4% 6% 8% 10% 12%
Japan
Korea
Australia
US
Norway
OECD average
Switzerland
UK
New Zealand
Euro zone
Canada
Sweden
Finland
Source: Stats NZ
NZ vs Australian labour markets
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
1995 1999 2003 2007 2011 2015 2019 2023
%%
Difference (rhs)
NZ unemployment rate
Australian unemployment rate
Sources: Stats NZ, ABS
Michael Gordon, Senior Economist | +64 9 336 5670 | michael.gordon@westpac.co.nz      Connect with us

===== Page 167 =====

of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).
References to the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the
directors, employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know.
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy Policy here, or the Australian
Group Privacy Statement here. Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we

document are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the
assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected
by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate
outcomes may differ substantially from these forecasts.
times use technology to capture data about you to help us to better understand you and your
needs, including potentially for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and

offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or sell any financial instrument or to enter
into a legally binding contract. To the extent that this information contains any general advice,
it has been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice. Certain types
of transactions, including those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

Westpac or its related entities is under any obligation to update this information or correct
any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date. This information may contain
or incorporate by reference forward looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”,
“expect”, “intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”, “will”, “should”,
“shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are predictions of or indicate future events and

performance, nor are forecasts of future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to
ensure that the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the forecasts
may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The
ultimate outcomes may differ substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its
clients, the Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker,

===== Page 168 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
14
underwriter, distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect
to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the
performance of a financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client
in any financial instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based
on sources reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s
knowledge, they are not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain

inside information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to
influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability-related content: This material
may contain statements relating to environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These
are subject to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties, limitations,
risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data, scenarios, reporting and analysis on

which the statements rely. In particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and
there are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as well as uncertainty
around future related policy and legislation. Some material may include information derived
from publicly available sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability of the information. There

is a risk that the analysis, estimates, judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or
projections used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual outcomes to
differ materially from those expressed or implied. The ESG-related statements in this material
do not constitute advice, nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including as to the quality, accuracy

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No. 233714). You can access
Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or request a copy from your Westpac point of
contact. To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has been prepared
without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which

products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
(“WNZL ”). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product.
WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential

Singapore laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore should contact
Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this
material. Westpac Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com. fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information

does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should
consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in
Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG
are available from www. westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457

141. This information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting
on it you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation.
Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac
is represented in Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its
members is limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as a federally licensed branch, regulated

by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither registered
as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant registered with the US CFTC. The services
and products referenced above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westpac, is a

Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind
WCM other than as provided for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional investors in reliance on
the exemption from registration provided by Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not
subject to all of the independence and disclosure standards applicable to debt research

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the U.S. distributor of

===== Page 169 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
15
this communication and accepts responsibility for the contents of this communication.
Transactions by U.S. customers of any securities referenced herein should be effected through
WCM. All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If you would like
to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned herein, please contact WCM on +1 212
389 1269. Investing in any non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in

this communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S. issuers may not be
registered with, or be subject to the regulations of, the SEC in the United States. Information on
such non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S. companies
may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and regulatory requirements comparable
to those in effect in the United States. The value of any investment or income from any

securities or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars is
subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may have a positive or adverse effect on the value of
or income from such securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified
as a research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-
dealer under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules

or regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are
solely those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by
Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586). The

London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the
United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s
London branch by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to,
the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to
and is directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals

(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion)
Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth
companies, unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other
persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any
persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being referred

to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or rely on
this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the information contained in
this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and “professional clients” as
defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.
Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this communication to any

third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i)
Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.
WEG has not edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its
regulation. WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche

Bundesbank’). WEG is registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483. In accordance with APRA’s
Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind
WEG other than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation
and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent

‘investment recommendation’ and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an
investment’, both as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable in the
United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant provisions of MAR, reasonable care
has been taken to ensure that the material has been objectively presented and that interests
or conflicts of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which that
information relates have been disclosed.

certain additional information requirements of MAR and associated delegated legislation and
by accepting this communication you acknowledge that you are aware of the existence of such
additional disclosure and its contents.
To the extent this communication comprises an investment recommendation it is classified as
non-independent research. It has not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements
designed to promote the independence of investment research and therefore constitutes a

marketing communication. Further, this communication is not subject to any prohibition on
dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research.

===== Page 170 =====

Westpac Banking Corporation.

===== Page 171 =====

#fomc #usd #us
For th e US, economic opportunity is narrow and increasinglybrittle
By Elliot Clarke
Head of International Economics, Westpac
13:26 May 11 2026 Share
US tech investment has scale and is delivering, but growth elsewhere in the economy is
challenged.

===== Page 172 =====

The US has exhibited both strength and frailty over the past month. Backed by earnings beats and
despite a new cycle high for Brent oil, its equity markets have rebounded strongly to record levels. At
the same time though, growth in consumer demand has fallen below trend and housing investment is
contracting. In many respects, the outlook is highly uncertain.
Beginning with the positives. The confidence financial markets have shown amid open-ended

uncertainty for energy supply, the pass-through to consumer inflation and elevated yields is jarring.
Participants’ responses to recent earnings results and news of the build out of AI infrastructure helps to
make sense of these outcomes, however.
Simply, there is a dominant belief that the US’ real economy can be protected from the worst of the
supply disruptions by its domestic energy production and refining capacity. And, both now and in the
long run, is at the forefront of productivity and profitability enhancement through technology. The surge

in energy exports as well as intangibles and equipment investment supports both notions. The strength
of these investment sub-types arguably also warrants expectations of sustainable income gains and an
ability to, in time, contain inflationary pressures, providing scope for persistent, robust returns.
We do not doubt the strength of tech-related investment or the capacity it is creating. But we see a
need to caution on the sustainability of its contribution to GDP growth because momentum tends to

moderate as an industry matures, and owing to the concern being shown by investors over the
financing terms and lifecycle of assets within the sector. We also believe it is important to recognise
that, outside of AI infrastructure and related equipment investment, business investment is soft. Indeed,
at circa 6%yr, annual growth in total business investment is broadly in line with the historic depreciation
rate for the US capital stock, implying no net increase in functional capacity. Also, in the public sector,

while activity rebounded in Q1 2026 following Q4’s shutdown, the level of spending is unchanged over
the year.
At the same time, the pulse of consumer demand has continued to soften, from an above-trend
annualised pace of 3.2% through 2023 and 2024 to a sub-par 2.1% annualised in 2025, and now 1.6%
in Q1 2026. This is despite the unemployment rate remaining consistent with full employment, the drag
on real discretionary income fading and as real wealth accrues. Also affected by elevated term interest

rates, housing construction continues to contract to now be down more than 18% since early 2021,
even with solid population growth.
It is extremely difficult, if not impossible, for an economy to grow at or above trend when sectors
representing 72% of total activity are experiencing a sub-par performance, or contracting outright. The
import component of the above activity is an additional headwind for GDP growth which is unlikely to
subside, even if President Trump finds a way to permanently impose tariffs and entice new investment.

Our take on the above positives and negatives is that the US economy finds itself with the capacity to
grow at or near trend through 2026-2028, but momentum is likely to be concentrated amongst a sub-
set of tech-centric businesses and higher-income households, with volatile outcomes around a broadly
flat trend anticipated elsewhere. Meanwhile, limits on capacity outside of technology is, all else equal,
likely to hold inflation consistently above target. As we have emphasised repeatedly, the adoption of AI

and related technology offers the opportunity for greater productivity from labour. But limits on migration

===== Page 173 =====

Related articles
are likely to create offsetting wage pressures and frictions in production.
For US monetary policy, known risks are therefore set to remain skewed towards misses on inflation
versus a material increase in labour market slack. The market is likely to price in at least a chance of a
rate hike over the forecast period, and term interest rates a lasting hawkish tilt. For the long end of the
yield curve, the effect of higher inflation expectations will be magnified by the implications for

Government servicing costs – a higher share of expenditure going to interest payments, increasing the
stock of debt and reducing the Government’s capacity to invest for growth. In our view, this uptrend for
interest rates is unlikely to boost the US dollar, being paired with modest US economic growth and
opportunities in other parts of the world, for businesses and investors alike.
This analysis initially appeared in Westpac Economics’ May Market Outlook.

Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe
#fomc

===== Page 174 =====

The FOMC favours a steady hand
April 30 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke
For the US, an adverse turn is in the making
April 20 2026 • 5 mins
#fomc
By Elliot Clarke

===== Page 175 =====

The FOMC’s steady hand
March 19 2026 • 5 mins
#fomc
By Elliot Clarke
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 176 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 177 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 178 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 179 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 180 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 181 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIAN DWELLING
FINANCE BULLETIN
A sharp quarterly pullback
13 May 2026
Key points
• New dwelling finance approvals fell
–3.8%qtr, the largest drop in three years.
Annual growth eased to 18.5%yr.
• The fall was volume-led. Loan numbers
were down –6.2%qtr (+8.6%yr), while

the average loan size lifted 9.1%yr,
broadly tracking home price growth.
• Owner-occupiers drove the decline,
with values down –4.3%qtr. First home
buyers were the main drag amid some
payback after the Q4 scheme boost.
• Investor approvals fell sharply with values
down –3.0%qtr and numbers –5.3%qtr.
New-build purchase loans slumped
–16.1%qtr while construction loans rose
for a 12th straight quarter (+2.9%qtr).
• Given the changes announced in the

Budget, there may be a period of
adjustment ahead for lending, coinciding
with the ongoing drag from higher
interest rates and added uncertainty
and cost pressures in construction
linked to the Middle East conflict.
Q1 new dwelling
finance:
–3.8%qtr,
+18.5%yr
New finance approvals by segment: value

===== Page 182 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
BULLETIN
The value of new dwelling finance approvals, excluding
refinancing, fell –3.8%qtr. This marked the largest drop in
three years and saw the annual rate moderate to 18.5%yr.
The result was weaker than both Westpac’s (7.0%qtr) and the
market’s (0.0%qtr) expectations. The weakness in values was

owing to a –6.2%qtr fall in the number of loans, with annual
growth easing to 8.6%yr. Average loan size rose 9.1%yr,
broadly inline with the 9.3%yr growth in home prices to March.
Declines were centred on owner-occupiers where the number of
loans fell –6.9%qtr leading to a –4.3%qtr drop in values. First
home buyers (FHBs) in this segment drove the decline where
loan values fell –6.7%qtr (numbers, –4.3%qtr) and were the
only sub-segment where values fell by more than numbers,

suggesting some of the weakness here is due to base effects
from the expansion of the FHB guarantee scheme in Q4.
Investor lending recorded its steepest drop since late-2022,
with loan values and numbers down –3.0%qtr and –5.3%qtr
respectively. The result was in contrast to ongoing strength
seen in investor credit growth in Q1 (see here). The weakness
stemmed from a –16.1%qtr drop in loans for the purchase of
newly built dwellings, which as a share of total investor loans

dropped to 3.6% – the weakest in the quarterly series’ history.
Loans for the purchases of established dwellings also fell
–9.5%qtr while construction loans marked their 12th straight
gain, up 2.9%qtr. The Middle East conflict is, however, adding
upside pressures to construction costs, which could temper
construction loan demand going forward. Overall investor loans
accounted for 39.5% of lending over the past four quarters – the
highest since December 2015.

Personal finance approvals rose 3.2%qtr. The rise was driven by
a 8.8%qtr rise in ‘other purpose’ loans (e.g. for travel, household
and personal goods etc), while vehicle loans rose 0.3%qtr. Loans
to SMEs fell –1.3%qtr after recording steady growth through
2025.
Looking ahead, home lending is likely to enter a period of adjust-
ment. Budget measures announced yesterday (see here) rebal-
ance tax incentives away from leveraged property investment,

while new build investments will receive a more concessional
tax treatment than established homes. This is expected to see
investor lending volumes moderate over time and progressively
shift toward loans for construction and new dwelling purchases,
which currently comprises around 17% of total investor lending.
This adjustment is likely to unfold alongside ongoing pressure
from the higher interest rate environment, which has already
weighed on home buying sentiment, particularly for owner-occu-

piers (see here).
Broad-based declines in home lending
Neha Sharma
Economist
New finance approvals by detailed segment
Dwelling finance: Q1 2026
%chg qtr % chg yr
latest Dec Mar Dec Mar
Number ('000s)
Owner–occupiers 82.5 4.9 –6.9 7.3 2.5
Investors 57.3 5.9 –5.3 23.7 18.8
Total dwelling finance^ 139.8 5.3 –6.2 13.5 8.6
Value ($bn)
Owner–occupiers 61.4 9.4 –4.3 18.5 14.3
Investors 41.5 8.2 –3.0 31.8 25.3
Total dwelling finance 103.0 8.9 –3.8 23.5 18.5

Land and renovations 7.1 14.0 –2.2 34.9 28.7
Refinance 61.1 2.3 0.0 15.3 10.2
Total housing incl. refinance 171.1 6.7 –2.4 20.9 15.7
Other indicators:
avg^ Jan Feb Mar Apr^
Auction clearance rate^ % 64.2 63.2 60.7 56.3 42.4
Dwelling prices, ann%chg 5.4 9.4 9.6 9.3 9.2
* unless specified, all figures exclude land, additions and alterations, and refinance. Where
specified, refinance is ‘external’ only, i.e. with a new lender. ^seasonally adjusted by West-

pac.
Sources: ABS, Cotality, APM, Westpac Economics

===== Page 183 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Dwelling finance by state: owner occupier
Other lending: personal finance and SME loans
Dwelling finance by state: investor
Dwelling finance by state: total value
Owner occupier finance approvals (number)
Investor loan by purpose

===== Page 184 =====

===== Page 185 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not

===== Page 186 =====

financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in
Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the

information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is
represented in Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited.
The liability of its members is limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as a federally
licensed branch, regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the
Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 187 =====

#businessconditions#confidence
Australian Business Conditions and Confidence, April
By Luka Belobrajdic
Economist, Westpac
14:20 May 12 2026 Share
Business conditions weakened in April, reflecting earlier pessimism, while confidence
remains deeply negative. Conditions -3pts to 3 / Confidence +5pts to -24.
The April NAB Business Survey was in the field from 23 to 30 April, providing an early read on business
conditions and confidence heading into the final quarter of FY26. Of note, businesses reported a

further intensification in cost pressures. Purchase cost growth matched the record increase seen last

===== Page 188 =====

month, rising a further 1.5ppt. The back-to-back gains saw the quarterly pace lift to 4.5%qtr, the
strongest since July 2022, placing it 3.3ppt above its long-run average. Final product price growth also
accelerated, rising 0.7ppt to 1.8%qtr – its sharpest increase since July 2022 – suggesting firms are
beginning to pass through a broader share of higher input costs to final prices. This points to a material
upside risk to near-term inflation as we have flagged recently. Labour cost growth rose modestly by

0.2ppt to 1.7%qtr.
The headline business conditions index declined in April, falling –3pts to 3, marking a clear step down
from the stability observed in recent months. Conditions are now 4pts below their long-run average and
well down from the high of 11 recorded in October last year. On a three-month average basis,
conditions have continued to trend lower through 2026, reinforcing the view that momentum has been
easing.
Across the major sub-components, trading conditions recorded a notable decline, falling –4pts to 7,

and is now 5pts below their long-run average. This likely reflects a further softening in consumer
demand, consistent with Westpac Card Tracker data which suggests that outside of fuel and electricity,
momentum in consumer spending is stalling. Combined with elevated cost pressures, firms appear to
be responding by adjusting their cost base. The employment sub-index fell sharply, down –5pts to 1,
moving below its long-run average and pointing to a preliminary softening in hiring intentions.

Profitability remained subdued, holding at 0, as rising costs and weaker trading conditions continue to
compress margins.

===== Page 189 =====

Capacity utilisation declined to 82.5% in April, reinforcing signs of softer conditions. Against the
backdrop of margin squeeze and monetary tightening, capital expenditure fell sharply (–8pts to 4) to sit
3pts below its long-run average, suggesting Australian businesses are not investing with the same
degree of confidence as last year.
Indeed, the headline business confidence measure remained deeply pessimistic in April, the 5pt lift to –
24 doing little to offset the staggering collapse in March, leaving it still 29pts below its long-run average.

Meanwhile, the Westpac-MI Consumer Sentiment survey deteriorated further in May, highlighting the
shared anxiety over the near-term economic outlook. Monthly reads will likely remain a bit volatile going
forward – touch-and-go developments out of the Middle East, another interest rate rise in May, and an
upcoming Federal Budget will all feed into business’ views about the outlook.
Among other indicators, forward orders weakened further, falling –4pts to –5, consistent with softer

demand. Inventories declined by -3pts to 4, likely reflecting weaker forward orders and reduced
restocking needs amid slowing activity.

===== Page 190 =====

Related articles
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

===== Page 191 =====

First Impressions: NZIER Quarterly Survey of Business Opinion,
March quarter 2026
April 21 2026 • 2 mins
#businessconditions
By Michael Gordon

===== Page 192 =====

Australian Business Conditions and Confidence, March
April 14 2026 • 5 mins
#businessconditions
By Luka Belobrajdic

===== Page 193 =====

First Impressions: NZ business confidence, March 2026
March 31 2026 • 2 mins
#businessconditions
By Michael Gordon
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 194 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 195 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 196 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 197 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 198 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 199 =====

#china #asia #aud
Ch ina plays to its comparative advantage
By Elliot Clarke
Head of International Economics, Westpac
13:00 May 11 2026 Share
In trade, investment and, with time, via financial flows, China has a considerable long-term
advantage that is set to grow their real economy and national wealth.
This week, President Xi and President Trump are due to meet and discuss China/US relations,
developments in the global economy and, barring a resolution before, likely the conflict in the Middle

East. This meeting will not materially change the status quo, being one of a number of in-person

===== Page 200 =====

meetings planned for this year. But it will guide on the opportunities and risks ahead. Available data
points to a stark difference in perspective and each nation’s outlook.
As the US continues to focus on controlling trade across its borders in pursuit of greater domestic
investment and production, China has instead enticed investment at home by encouraging foreign
trade. To date in 2026, China’s trade surplus has averaged US$88bn per month after holding around

US$99bn in 2025, both outcomes roughly three times the 2018-19 average of US$32bn.
The US trade position has, in contrast, deteriorated from an average deficit of US$47bn per month in
2018-19 to US$73bn in 2025-26. This US data admittedly pre-dates the surge in energy exports seen
through April and May, but China has also temporarily pulled back on their supply of energy goods to
other nations, reducing export revenue.
With future export opportunities remaining the focus, Chinese fixed asset investment continues to grow

after rapidly scaling through 2020-2025. Of particular note, transport and storage-related infrastructure
spending surged in early-2026, and utilities investment has continued to compound around 9%ytd.
Within the manufacturing sector, stronger demand for green technology goods and refined energy
products is likely to elicit a sustained upturn in capital expenditure through 2026, with the key
investment sub-categories of electrical machinery, automobiles (EVs) and chemicals all showing

evidence of stabilisation in Q1, and global demand receiving strong support from elevated energy
prices and open-ended uncertainty over Middle East supply.
In contrast, in the US, investment remains highly concentrated in AI-related infrastructure and
conversely is weak in areas related to trade and the domestic real economy. Lingering uncertainty
related to tariffs and elevated long-term yields are also at play, in addition to businesses’ focus on

technology – US for-profit entities need greater surety over expected returns than China’s state-owned
and state-linked entities.
An additional element to consider is the benefit China may receive from the US’ souring relationship
with other nations, particularly Europe. This month, President Trump has continued to spar with
European leaders, threatening to pull US troops from Germany and other major nations in the region.
He then threatened a 10 percentage point increase in the US tariff rate for European cars and trucks,

purportedly because the EU had failed to live up to their side of the agreed trade deal.
The EU labelled the US as an “unreliable” trading partner and vowed to respond. Ahead of this
development, Chinese authorities were acting to strengthen ties with European leaders, publicly via a
number of high-profile visits from European leaders, and behind the scenes by encouraging Chinese
firms to invest in Europe and vice versa. There is strong evidence of an integrated, mutually-beneficial

trade relationship taking shape between China and Europe.
As we have highlighted frequently, Chinese investment is not concentrated in one jurisdiction, however.
It has also spread widely across Asia, Latin America and Africa, targeting not only the production of
finished goods, but also the production of supply inputs – from raw materials to high-tech components.

===== Page 201 =====

Related articles
While not their initial intent, over time this project will justify a material increase in the use of the
Renminbi in trade, and will also strengthen demand for real and financial investment within China.
These trends will see greater depth and liquidity for China’s onshore financial markets, as well as
scope to offer global investments to Chinese investors through the issuance of Renminbi denominated
debt and equity instruments. The larger these flows become, the greater the opportunity for Chinese

banks and financial entities to facilitate flows, provide capital and manage risk, both on and, more
importantly, offshore.
Overall then, in trade, investment and, with time, via financial flows, China has a considerable long-
term competitive advantage that is set to benefit their real economy and national wealth.
This analysis initially appeared in Westpac Economics’ May Market Outlook.
Stay informed with  Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.

Subscribe
#china

===== Page 202 =====

China is set to benefit from global energy unrest
April 20 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke
China offers global growth a well-timed boost
April 16 2026 • 5 mins
#china
By Elliot Clarke

===== Page 203 =====

The world needs a strong and connected China
March 16 2026 • 5 mins
#china
By Elliot Clarke
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

===== Page 204 =====

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

===== Page 205 =====

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

===== Page 206 =====

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

===== Page 207 =====

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

===== Page 208 =====

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

===== Page 209 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIA &
NEW ZEALAND
WEEKLY
Week beginning 18 May 2026
In this week’s edition:
Economic Insight: Budget delivers downpayment on reform agenda.
The Week That Was: Beyond the horizon.
Focus on New Zealand: Under the pump.
For the week ahead:
Australia: Westpac-MI Consumer Sentiment, RBA minutes, labour force survey.

New Zealand: Q1 real retail sales, Q1 PPI, trade balance, retail card spending.
Japan: Q1 GDP, CPI.
China: retail sales, industrial production, fixed asset investment.
Euro area: CPI, consumer confidence.
United Kingdom: CPI, unemployment rate, retail sales, consumer sentiment.
United States: FOMC minutes, regional manufacturing surveys, housing starts, UoM consumer sentiment.
Global: S&P Global PMIs.
Analysis and forecasts for this week’s key releases.

Information contained in this report current as at 15 May 2026.

===== Page 210 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
A range of other small measures complement the productivity 
agenda by encouraging new businesses. These include reforms 
to R&D tax incentives, loss carry-back for small businesses and 
refunds of tax losses for early-stage start-up firms. While it 
received less coverage on budget night, the savings mooted in the 
NDIS also add up to a significant reform, if they can be realised.  
Most of the tax and productivity measures will have a slow-
burn impact on the economy. Fuel security is a shorter-term 
priority, which the government has address with a range of 
initiatives to secure fuel supply and increase local inventory 
holdings. Here, too, though, there are longer-term measures 
working in the same direction. These include making the 
tax breaks for EVs permanent and regulatory measures and 
funding for charging infrastructure to encourage electrification 
of other parts of the transport system.
Do the measures take pressure off demand?
This year’s budget occurs in the context of an economy that 
was already contending with high inflation. Boosting demand 
further would have made the RBA’s inflation-control task 
even harder. The budget does have a positive fiscal impact 
– the headline deficit increases across years in FY2026 and 
FY2027 – but it is moderate. Expressed as a per cent to GDP, 
the underlying cash deficit is flat at 1.0% between FY2026 
and FY2029, before narrowing to 0.7% in FY2030. Estimates 
of the structural deficit show gradual improvement both in the 
forward estimates and through the medium-term forecasts.
This bottom-line result stems from the fact that the policy 
decisions are adding to the underlying cash deficit by 
considerably less than the economic environment is reducing 
it. In the short run, the cycle is helping the budget bottom 
line. Revenues have increased relative to the expectations at 
MYEFO as higher energy and other commodity prices have 
boosted corporate tax revenue. FY2026 and FY2027 also see 
positive parameter variations, dominated by higher receipts. 
Further out in the forward estimates, policy decisions are 
expected to reduce spending relative to the MYEFO projections. 
The principal save comes from recently announced reforms to 
the NDIS. By contrast, spending continues to rise across health, 
education and childcare, with limited evidence of system-
wide review into whether outcomes are improving in line with 
resources or whether NDIS-style savings can be achieved.

ECONOMIC INSIGHT
The seeds for this Budget were planted in late last year, 
when the government convened a series of economic reform 
roundtables. Since then, it has consistently framed reform as 
central to lifting productivity and increasing the economy’s 
speed limit. It has also focused on intergenerational equity 
and ensuring more Australians can enter the housing market.
The Middle East conflict has, if anything, accelerated that 
agenda. It has broadened from a productivity focus to 
encompass energy and fuel security, reinforcing economic 
resilience as a core policy objective.
Swathe of reforms adds up to material total
Measures to boost housing supply and level the playing field are 
meaningful, particularly on tax settings. Concessional capital 
gains tax (CGT) has long been recognised as encouraging 
leveraged investment in rental properties, particularly in 
the way it interacts with negative gearing. Reforming this 
part of the tax system had previously been considered too 
controversial. Despite that, this year’s budget tackles both CGT 
and negative gearing, as well as taxation of trusts, and does so 
in a way that still encourages new construction. 
The Budget papers anticipate that these reforms will enable 
an additional 75,000 Australians to buy their own home 
over the next decade and support the construction of up 
to 30,000 new homes over the same period; this is modest 
relative to the roughly 11 million dwellings in Australia, with 
more than 160,000 added each year. The grandfathering of 
existing holdings means that the implications for the housing 
market will be drawn out. In the short term, the interest rate 
environment will be a more consequential influence.
The government has also progressed its productivity reform 
agenda. Announced measures address the myriad of little 
things that hold the economy back, rather than a few headline-
grabbers. Importantly, and appropriately, the government did 
not claim the tax reforms as productivity measures. The net 
impact of the productivity measures adds up to potentially 
significant change. Red-tape reductions and harmonisation of 
regulation across states and territories feature prominently, 
including national licencing of key occupations; this follows 
previous efforts to create an automatic mutual recognition 
regime, which Queensland did not sign up to. The Budget also 
announces funding to support previously announced reforms, 
for example streamlining environmental assessments.
Budget delivers downpayment on reform agenda
Luci Ellis
Chief Economist, Westpac Group

===== Page 211 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
THE WEEK THAT WAS
Cliff Notes: beyond the horizon
The April CPI then came in as expected at 0.6%, 3.8%yr. The
headline outcome reflected a further 5.4% gain for gasoline
prices after March’s 21.2% surge. An outsized 0.6% increase in
the shelter component was also observed, reportedly biased

up by a delayed sample reset following the government
shutdown late last year. Abstracting from these two effects,
underlying inflation was modest in the month. Energy was
also a major contributor to import prices in April, up 1.9%
(0.7% ex-petroleum) to be 4.2% higher over the year. Seeing
as the US is an energy product exporter, export prices have
also strengthened of late, up 3.3% in April to be up 8.8%yr.
US consumers look to be weathering the surge in energy

prices well so far, headline and control group retail sales up
0.5% in April, a solid gain.
China’s price data was also stronger than expected in April
because of energy prices. Consumer inflation lifted to 1.2%yr,
while producer prices were up 2.8%yr. Producer price gains
were concentrated in the most energy-intensive sectors such
as metals, while sectors more vulnerable to excess capacity
saw price declines. While recent data has been encouraging for

China’s deflationary cycle, it is worth noting that it’s the supply-
side driving the outcomes, not demand. Further fiscal support
will be required to sustainably lift China out of deflation.
Of course, the main event in China this week was not a data
release but instead the meeting between President Xi and
President Trump. While limited in terms of the detail, the
outcomes were productive. The US has reportedly agreed
to reduce its controls over China’s access to technology; and

in return, China will buy more commodities from the US. A
“Board of Trade” is also to be set up to allow trade disputes
to be resolved through bilateral negotiation. President Trump
also reportedly emphasised the need for China to help bring
the conflict in the Middle East to an end and re-open the Strait
of Hormuz. Whether progress is seen on that front is an open
question. President XI has been invited to Washington in
September to continue in-person discussions.

The 2026/27 Federal Budget was the main event in Australia
this week. Our bulletin provides a detailed view of the
Government’s fiscal position, policy measures and economic
expectations over the forward estimates. Compared to
the projections from MYEFO, the budget bottom line has
improved owing to commodity price windfalls, with the
deficit now expected to hold steady around 1.0% of GDP.
Larger improvements in the Government’s finances are
anticipated in the outer years as the Government’s major

saving measures deliver. Of particular note is the clamp-down
on NDIS spending announced in April, which is expected to
relieve budget pressure from payment cost inflation and help
keep Federal net debt low versus other OECD countries.
The tax reform proposed in the Budget was also consequential
and broad-based, impacting negative gearing, the capital gains
tax discount and discretionary trusts. Our conversation with
Chief Economist Luci Ellis explores these proposed changes

and the other key measures for households. Budget night
also saw a number of initiatives put forward for business and
SMEs, alongside a range of reforms that should help foster
productivity growth in the long run. While meaningful, these
measures are not expected to materially add or detract from
the fiscal impulse over the next couple of years, thereby having
little impact on the RBA’s policy calculus.
Our Q1 Westpac-DataX Consumer Panel  meanwhile showed

that consumers are having to reduce savings and discretionary
consumption to absorb the spike in fuel and electricity prices
(the latter now due to the roll-off of government rebates).
Mortgage holders are well placed in aggregate to weather
the shock from the Middle East and interest rate rises; but the
distribution of buffers is varied, leaving some more exposed.
Wages growth remains robust and is only slowing gradually,
offering support to consumer demand without posing an

immediate threat to inflation. That said, the pass-through
of non-labour input cost inflation was a key message in this
week’s NAB business survey, giving the RBA cause to remain
cautious of inflation’s potential persistence.
Last Friday in the US, nonfarm payrolls beat expectations,
rising 115k in April with only a small -16k revision to the
previous two months. This left the three-month average
at 48k, consistent with labour demand and supply being in

balance. The unemployment rate remained steady at 4.3% as
the participation rate edged down 0.1ppts. On a multi-month
view, the labour market can be characterised as a ‘low hire,
low fire’ environment, a sentiment echoed by FOMC member
Schmid this week. This backdrop should result in moderate
wage growth over the coming year.
Elliot Clarke, Head of International Economics
Illiana Jain, Economist
Ryan Wells, Economist
“Tax refunds have supported spending

of late, and established households
continue to benefit from fixed interest
rates and wealth gains”

===== Page 212 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOCUS ON NEW ZEALAND
Under the pump
The New Zealand economy has entered a far more
challenging phase than expected earlier in the year.
Momentum that had been building through late -2025 and
early-2026 has been disrupted by the Iran conflict, which

has delivered a sharp energy price shock, lifted inflation
pressures and renewed uncertainty for households,
businesses and policymakers alike. While a recession is not
our central expectation, the outlook now points to another
year of subdued growth, elevated inflation and a delicate
balancing act for monetary and fiscal policy.
At the heart of the shift in outlook is the surge in global oil and
refined fuel prices following the prolonged disruption in the

Middle East. Real petrol and diesel prices in New Zealand are at
multi-decade highs. Even if the conflict were to ease suddenly,
damage to infrastructure and strained refinery capacity mean
fuel costs are likely to remain elevated for some time. The result
is a broad-based cost shock that is filtering through transport,
production and distribution channels, weighing on spending
power and lifting inflation well above comfortable levels.
That said, this week’s selected prices data for April showed

weaker inflation pressures than we had pencilled in. Hence
there is some modest downside risks to our June quarter CPI
pick of 4.4% y/y. Food and fuel prices didn’t rise by quite as
much as anticipated.
Economic growth has slowed as these pressures intensify.
We now expect GDP growth of around 1.5% over 2026, a
disappointing outcome given the more optimistic view we held
in early 2026. Higher living costs are eroding real household
incomes, while uncertainty is encouraging both households

and firms to delay discretionary spending and investment
decisions. The services sector, retail trade and hospitality are
bearing the brunt of this adjustment, reflecting their sensitivity
to household budgets. Tourism, which had been recovering
strongly, is also expected to pause as higher airfares and global
uncertainty dampen long-haul travel demand.
This week's manufacturing PMI survey showed a modest pull
back of the aggregate index to around 50.5 and a sharper

decline in the new orders component to 48.2. On balance, these
results look broadly consistent with our view that we will see
a small decline in GDP in the June quarter. Early days on that
assessment though.
Households are facing a renewed squeeze on finances. Fuel
prices have risen by more than 30% since the conflict began,
compounding earlier increases in essentials such as food,
electricity and insurance. At the same time, the labour market
remains soft. Unemployment, while dipping marginally in

early-2026, is expected to rise again to around 5.6% as firms
respond cautiously to weaker demand and higher costs. Wage
growth will hopefully remain muted relative to inflation but will
limit households’ ability to absorb the shock.
Interest rate dynamics add another layer of strain. Over the past
two years many borrowers benefited from falling mortgage
rates, but that easing phase is ending. Mortgage rates have
begun to edge higher again, meaning households refixing loans

will see smaller reductions in repayments, and eventually
gradual increases. Together, higher living costs, a soft jobs
market and less interest-rate relief point to a sharp slowdown in
household spending through the remainder of this year, before
conditions gradually improve as cost pressures ease.
The labour market story is one of fragility rather than collapse.
Prior to the Iran conflict, signs were emerging that employment
growth was stabilising. However, hiring intentions have

since weakened as firms grapple with higher input costs and
uncertain demand. We now expect to see little employment
growth in 2026, with unemployment peaking later this year.
While there may be isolated pockets of skill shortages, overall
labour market slack will restrain wage bargaining power,
preventing a rapid acceleration in wage inflation despite rising
living costs. Right now, we see few signs of a discontinuous
labour market reaction to the war. Weekly filled jobs trends are

tracking typical seasonal patterns while job advertisements for
April fell just 1.7%.
Housing, which had shown tentative signs of recovery early
in the year, has been knocked off course. Low interest rates,
Kelly Eckhold
Chief Economist NZ

===== Page 213 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
5
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
improving confidence and a stabilising labour market had
supported modest house price gains in the first quarter.
These supports have largely evaporated. We now expect flat
to slightly declining house prices over 2026 as confidence
weakens and the prospect of higher interest rates re-emerges.

Strong net migration will provide some underlying demand, but
it is unlikely to offset the broader drag from weaker incomes and
sentiment. Data this week confirmed that view with a 0.4% fall
in house prices in April – albeit with a small fall in the average
time to sell a home.
In the construction sector, recent momentum is unlikely to be
sustained. Residential building activity is set to lift modestly
in the near term as earlier consent approvals translate into

work on the ground. However, rising fuel and materials costs,
higher financing costs and elevated uncertainty are expected to
curb new project initiation as we move into 2027. Commercial
construction remains subdued, with office and industrial projects
holding steady but little evidence of renewed expansion,
particularly in retail and hospitality-related developments.
Business investment decisions are being deferred rather
than abandoned. Surveys suggest firms have become more

cautious, scaling back near -term capital expenditure plans
while uncertainty around the conflict persists. Encouragingly,
capital imports were strong in early -2026, indicating that
momentum had been building prior to the shock. Over time,
postponed investment — particularly in areas such as IT
and software linked to the AI investment cycle — is likely to
resume once conditions stabilise and confidence returns.
As we set out in more detail in our preview of Budget 2026

this week, the fiscal outlook has also been impacted by the
Middle East conflict. Higher inflation and interest rates are
set to place upward pressure on government spending,
particularly on social assistance and debt servicing, while
weaker economic activity is weighing on revenue growth.
As a result, the Treasury is likely to forecast a further lift
the Government’s borrowing requirement in Budget 2026
(perhaps $7-9bn across the four-year forecast horizon).

While an operating surplus in the final year of the forecast
period remains possible, achieving it will require sustained
fiscal discipline. Even greater discipline will be required if the
Government is to achieve its goal of a surplus a year earlier in
2028/29. And credible progress towards fiscal consolidation
will be required if Moody’s and Fitch are to remove the
negative outlook that they have placed on New Zealand’s
sovereign credit rating.

The primary sector remains a relative bright spot. Export
commodity prices are expected to stay elevated, supported by
strong global protein demand and a supportive exchange rate.
Higher energy, fertiliser and feed costs will squeeze margins
in the near term, but prolonged price pressures offshore
increase the likelihood of these costs being passed through to
export prices. Dairy incomes are expected to remain resilient,
helping to support rural regions and partially offset weakness

elsewhere in the economy.
New Zealand’s balance of payments looks set to deteriorate
temporarily as higher fuel prices lift the import bill. At the
same time, services exports — especially tourism — are set
to slow. We expect the current account deficit to widen in the
near term before narrowing again in 2027 as energy prices
ease and tourism activity recovers.
Inflation is the central challenge. Headline inflation is
expected to rise into the mid -4% range and remain above 3%

until mid-2027. The energy price shock has spilled into a much
broader range of costs, and ongoing increases in administered
prices are reinforcing underlying inflation pressures. While
economic slack should limit the extent of second -round
effects, the risk remains that businesses begin to embed
higher inflation expectations into pricing behaviour.
For monetary policy, this environment presents an
uncomfortable trade -off. The 2.25% OCR was set assuming

a much more benign inflation outlook. The OCR now looks
too low given the scale of the coming cost and inflation shock.
We expect the Reserve Bank to begin lifting the OCR to 3%
and more neutral levels, most likely from September, but with
the potential for a start as early as this month given it seems
clear the key question is when not if the OCR needs to rise.
How far and how fast the OCR ultimately rises will depend
critically on the duration of the conflict and the persistence of

inflation pressures.
Overall, the economy is navigating rocky waters. Growth is
subdued, inflation is uncomfortably high, and confidence has
taken a hit. However, there are grounds for cautious optimism
once energy prices ease and uncertainty recede.

===== Page 214 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUS: May Westpac-MI Consumer Sentiment (index)
May 19, Last: 80.1
Consumer sentiment fell heavily in April, declining 12.5% to
80.1 from 91.6 in March. Consumers are being hit by another
‘cost of living’ shock as a spike in fuel prices combines with

rising interest rates. The April sentiment drop was the biggest
monthly decline since COVID. At 80, the Index is back near
historical lows, albeit above the extremes seen during the
pandemic and the recessions of the early 1990s and 1980s.
The May survey is in the field over the week ending May 16.
It will capture reactions to the Federal budget and the RBA’s
latest 25bp rate increase. Local fuel prices have declined
materially (~30 ¢ /litre since the April survey) due to the

temporary halving of fuel excise tax and waiving of GST. This
is despite no meaningful progress towards restoring supply
out of the Middle East. Housing-related sentiment will be of
particular interest given the major tax changes in the budg et.
AUS: Apr Labour Force – Employment Change (000s)
May 21, Last: 14.9, Westpac f/c: 10.0
Market f/c: 17.5, Range: 10.0 to 28.0
The March Labour Force Survey (LFS) showed that the overall
labour market was in decent shape. Employment grew by

+17.9k in March, lifting the annual growth pace up to 1.5%yr
on a three-month average basis.
While it is still too early to detect any material shifts in the
labour market stemming from the Middle East conflict or
recent interest rate rises, we have pencilled in only a modest
lift in employment for April, up 10k.
This captures some downside risk associated with the timing
of the survey and Easter holidays. Our preview walks through
this in more depth, but in short, this month's survey completely

overlaps both Good Friday and Easter Monday – a 'seasonal
abnormality' that could over-emphasise seasonal weakness.
AUS: Apr Labour Force – Unemployment Rate (%)
May 21, Last: 4.3, Westpac f/c: 4.3
Market f/c: 4.3, Range: 4.2 to 4.4
Last month's labour market data challenged the RBA’s earlier
assessment that “the labour market has tightened a little
recently”. The fall in the unemployment rate to 4.1% around
the turn of the year proved temporary, as it lifted back to 4.3%

in February and held at that level in March.
For April, we think the participation rate and unemployment
rate will hold steady at 66.8% and 4.3% respectively. As far
as the RBA is concerned, the most immediate and pressing
concern is inflation, so this round of labour market data
(given there is no major surprise) is unlikely to shift the policy
calculus materially.

===== Page 215 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
NZ: Apr Retail Card Spending (%mth)
May 19, Last: 0.7, Westpac f/c: 1.2
We expect the April spending update will show that nominal 
retail spending was up 1.2% over the past month. That’s 
mainly due to the 15% rise in fuel costs over the past month, 
along with increased spending on groceries. However, 
spending in discretionary areas like apparel and hospitality is 
expected to be more muted. The fuel price spike is squeezing 
households’ purchasing power, and households are winding 
back their discretionary spending. Of note, travel related 
spending (like airfares) has fallen sharply. However, much of 
that spending is not included in ‘retail’ spending categories. It 
is, however, captured in the ‘total’ spending category, which 
we expect will be down around 2% this month.
NZ: Q1 Retail Trade Survey (%qtr)
May 22, Volumes, Last: 0.9, Westpac f/c: 0.2
The March quarter is expected to see a muted 0.2% rise in 
real retail sales. The latter part of March saw fuel prices rising 
sharply, and that has been a drag on spending. But we’ve 
also seen price rises in other areas like food. As a result, we 
expect a firmer 0.9% rise in nominal spending. One key area 
of uncertainty is vehicle spending, which can be lumpy on a 
quarter-to-quarter basis. Distributors reported a lift in sales of 
EVs late in the month, though we expect that will be balanced 
out by lower sales for combustion engine vehicles. 
AUS: Q1 Westpac Now (%qtr)
May 22, Last: 0.6
Westpac-Now points to moderating GDP growth of around 
0.6%qtr in Q1 2026 (range: 0.55–0.75%qtr). The second 
estimate showed that monthly activity levels edged lower in 
March after moving sideways through January and February. 
Overall, activity was flat across the March quarter, ending 
an upswing that began in May 2025, even before the recent 
tightening in monetary policy could take effect.

We expect our final estimate for Q1 2026 to continue to 
suggest that activity eased into the first half of 2026. The 
sharp falls in consumer and business confidence that were 
largely looked through in our second estimate are likely to 
weigh on the growth impulse going forward.

===== Page 216 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
8
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOR THE WEEK AHEAD
What to watch
For Data/Event Unit Last
Market
f/c
Westpac
f/c Risk/Comment
Mon 18
NZ Apr BusinessNZ PSI index 46 – – Has been soft, even prior to the Iran conflict.
Chn Apr Retail Sales ytd %yr 2.4 – – Tentative signs of a stabilisation in consumer demand but ...

Apr Industrial Production ytd %yr 6.1 – – ... trade’s contribution to growth has further to run as ...
Apr Fixed Asset Investment ytd %yr 1.7 1.7 – ... green technology demand accelerates in light of US–Iran.
Tue 19
Aus RBA Assist’ Governor (Economic) – – – – Hunter speaking at Bloomberg Forum, 9:30am AEST.
May RBA Minutes – – – – To provide more colour on the Board’s deliberations.
May Westpac–MI Consumer Sentiment index 80.1 – – Will provide a read post Federal budget and 25bp rate hike.

NZ Apr Retail Card Spending %mth 0.7 – 1.2 Increased spending on essentials.
Jpn Q1 GDP %qtr 0.3 0.4 – Heading into the global energy shock with GDP near–stagnant.
UK Mar ILO Unemployment Rate % 4.9 4.9 – Dip in unemployment rate may prove short–lived.
US Apr Pending Home Sales %mth 1.5 1.6 – Early guide to established home sales, which is low and stable.
Wed 20
Eur Apr CPI %ann 3.0 3.0 – Final estimate to provide full component detail.
UK Apr CPI %ann 3.3 3.0 – Inflation centred on fuel; core inflation broadly stable, for now.

US Apr FOMC Meeting Minutes – – – – More colour on the balanced baseline and risk outlook.
Fedspeak – – – – Paulson.
Thu 21
Aus Apr Employment Change 000s 17.9 17.5 10 Still too early to see weakness from Middle East or recent ...
Apr Unemployment Rate % 4.3 4.3 4.3 ... rate rises, but April ‘abnormal seasonality’ could surprise.
NZ Apr Trade Balance $mn 698 – 845 A seasonal surplus, weighed down by higher fuel imports.
Jpn May S&P Global Manufacturing PMI index 55.1 – – Pull–forward of output and new orders before conflict impacts ...

May S&P Global Services PMI index 51.0 – – ... services activity is delicately positioned.
Eur May S&P Global Manufacturing PMI index 52.2 51.5 – European manufacturing resilient for similar reasons ...
May S&P Global Services PMI index 47.6 48.0 – ... but the gap lower in services is a concerning signal.
May Consumer Confidence index –20.6 –20.0 – Starting to probe pandemic–era lows as inflation lifts.
UK May S&P Global Manufacturing PMI index 53.7 53.1 – Orders brought forward to get ahead of price lifts ...

May S&P Global Services PMI index 52.7 51.8 – ... but firmer services activity certainly a welcome sign.
US Initial Jobless Claims 000s 211 – – Still at a very low level versus history.
May Phily Fed Manufacturing index 26.7 15.0 – Phily’s momentum is enviable, but is at clear risk of easing ...
May Kansas City Fed Manufacturing index 10 – – ... as headwinds start to materialise across the nation.
Apr Housing Starts %mth 10.8 –5.5 – Sense of caution underlies the monthly volatile data as ...

Apr Building Permits %mth –11.4 2.7 – ... permit issuance slows amid high new home inventory.
May S&P Global Manufacturing PMI index 54.5 53.6 – Industry remains on a solid footing, like the ISM, but ...
May S&P Global Services PMI index 51.0 51.3 – ... momentum in services at risk if consumer weakens.
Fri 22
Aus Q1 Westpac-Now %qtr 0.6 – 0.6 Final estimate will provide a near complete read on Q1 activity.
NZ Q1 Real Retail Sales %qtr 0.9 0.5 0.2 Price rises weighing on volumes growth.

Jpn Apr CPI %ann 1.5 1.6 – Focus is on trend excl. food and energy for now.
Ger May IFO Business Climate Survey index 84.4 84.6 – Will souring expectations bleed into current situation view?
UK May GfK Consumer Sentiment index –25 –27 – Falling, but not ‘collapsing’ like in some other countries ...
Apr Retail Sales %mth 0.7 – – ... aiding growth in retail sales, even after excluding petrol.
US May Uni. Of Michigan Sentiment index 48.2 48.2 – Final estimate will provide full reaction to recent updates.

===== Page 217 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
9
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
LOOKING FURTHER AHEAD
Interest rate forecasts
Australia Latest (15 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Cash 4.35 4.35 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.60 4.35
90 Day BBSW 4.44 4.55 4.90 4.90 4.95 4.95 4.95 4.80 4.55 4.30

3 Year Swap 4.64 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
3 Year Bond 4.63 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
10 Year Bond 4.96 5.00 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.00 4.95 4.90 4.90
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 57 65 65 60 55 50 40 30 20 15
United States
Fed Funds 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625
US 10 Year Bond 4.39 4.35 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.60 4.65 4.70 4.75
New Zealand
Cash 2.25 2.25 2.50 3.00 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.25 4.25

90 Day Bill 2.66 2.50 2.95 3.40 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.45 4.45 4.45
2 Year Swap 3.61 3.75 4.05 4.30 4.40 4.40 4.40 4.35 4.30 4.25
10 Year Bond 4.72 4.85 4.95 5.00 5.05 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 23 50 55 55 55 55 50 45 40 35
Exchange rate forecasts
Latest (15 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar-28 Jun-28
AUD/USD 0.7171 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.73
NZD/USD 0.5905 0.59 0.59 0.62 0.64 0.66 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67

USD/JPY 158.55 157 156 154 152 150 148 146 144 142
EUR/USD 1.1646 1.18 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.22
GBP/USD 1.3354 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.41
USD/CNY 6.7999 6.80 6.75 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35
AUD/NZD 1.2217 1.22 1.22 1.18 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.10
Australian economic forecasts
2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
% change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
GDP %qtr 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 – – – –

%yr end 2.1 2.6 2.6 1.9 1.6 1.0 0.9 1.1 2.6 1.0 1.6 2.8
Unemployment rate % * 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.4 4.6 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.3 4.9 4.9 4.5
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 – – – –
%yr end 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.2 3.0 3.4
Headline CPI %qtr 1.3 0.6 1.4 1.5 1.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 – – – –
%yr end 3.2 3.6 4.1 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.1 3.2 3.6 4.9 2.5 2.2
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr 1.0 0.9 0.8 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 – – – –
%yr end 3.0 3.4 3.5 3.9 4.0 4.0 4.0 3.6 3.4 4.0 3.0 2.4

* Quarter–average.
Economic & financial forecasts
New Zealand economic forecasts
2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
% Change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
GDP %qtr 0.9 0.2 0.8 –0.3 0.4 0.6 1.1 0.6 – – – –
Annual avg change –0.6 0.2 0.6 1.2 1.3 1.3 1.6 1.8 0.2 1.3 2.7 3.4
Unemployment rate % 5.3 5.4 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.6 5.5 5.3 5.4 5.6 4.9 4.4
CPI %qtr 1.0 0.6 0.9 1.8 1.2 0.4 0.5 0.0 – – – –
Annual change 3.0 3.1 3.1 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.0 2.1 3.1 4.4 1.6 2.1

===== Page 218 =====

===== Page 219 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 220 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 221 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIA &
NEW ZEALAND
WEEKLY
Week beginning 11 May 2026
In this week’s edition:
Economic Insight: Rate call tweak: August & September not June & August; Three challenging trends and
the opportunities they present for Australian women.
The Week That Was: Dynamic risks.

Focus on New Zealand: All right so far.
For the week ahead:
Australia: 2026/27 Federal Budget, Q1 housing finance approvals, Q1 WPI, NAB business survey.
New Zealand: RBNZ inflation expectations, house prices & sales, selected price indices.
Japan: Household spending, current account balance.
China: CPI, PPI.
Euro area: ZEW survey of expectations, Q1 GDP (second estimate), industrial production.
United Kingdom: Q1 GDP.
United States: CPI, retail sales, NFIB small business optimism, PPI, industrial production, import prices.

Analysis and forecasts for this week’s key releases.
Information contained in this report current as at 8 May 2026.

===== Page 222 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
We therefore push the timing of these two hikes out to
August and September. We think the Q2 and Q3 inflation
data will be something of a ‘wake-up call’ on the willingness
of firms to pass on increases in non-labour costs into their
own prices (though this is something we would be glad to be

wrong about). Subsequent quarters may also show a lack of
unwinding of recent downstream price increases as fuel costs
ease. The Governor may come to regret stating that passing on
costs arising from fuel price increases was “reasonable”, if this
is interpreted to mean full pass-through with no reversal later.
This change in our rates view is a tactical change reflecting
our assessment of the RBA’s appetite to continue the current
pace of tightening in the current uncertainty, coupled with its

evidently less stark view about pass-through to other prices.
It is not a fundamental shift in our view of the outlook. We
will continue to monitor developments in the Middle East and
domestic cost pass-through, and adjust our view as appropriate.
ECONOMIC INSIGHT
We still expect two more RBA rate hikes after the one
this week. However, as we flagged as a consideration on
Tuesday, we now think that the Monetary Policy Board
(MPB) will want to pause in June. In the post-meeting

media conference, Governor Bullock characterised the three
rate hikes so far as dealing with the high inflation issue
that already existed before the conflict in the Middle East
started, and that this “gives space” for the MPB to see how
the conflict plays out. Together with the dissenting vote, we
read this as saying that another back-to-back hike in June is
no longer a better-than-50% chance. It is not a zero chance,
either, but it should not be the base case.

We do not think the MPB will have much time to catch breath,
though. Today we publish fresh forecasts in our May Market
Outlook, based on a revised timeline for the reopening of the
Strait of Hormuz. This includes a revised inflation forecast
that, while only a little higher than our previous profile,
involves noticeably higher trimmed mean inflation in the
second half of 2026 than the RBA’s forecasts.
The RBA acknowledges indications that “higher fuel prices are

likely to have second-round effects on prices for goods and
services more broadly”. Our assessment is that there will be
more of this than the RBA forecasts imply, especially in areas
such as home-building costs. It should also be noted that our
inflation forecasts are based on our own forecasts for oil and
fuel prices, which track somewhat higher than the futures curve
that the RBA uses as a technical assumption in its forecasts.
Our rates view is, as always, based on our assessment of what

the RBA will do if things turn out as we expect, in line with our
own forecasts. We therefore retain our view that two further
hikes are more likely than one. It will take some time before
the need for the additional hikes becomes apparent in the
data and spurs a MPB decision, though. Key events between
now and the June meeting, including the Federal budget and
National Wage Case decision, are unlikely to turn the dial on
the RBA forecasts. The RBA’s reaction to the second-round

inflation will thus be a bit later than we previously assumed.
Rate call tweak: August & September not June & August
Luci Ellis
Chief Economist, Westpac Group
“We adjust the timing of our rates
view given the RBA’s language and
forecasts.”
Forecast changes
• A full update to our forecasts will be published in our
Market Oulook publication on May 8.

===== Page 223 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Three challenging trends and the opportunities they
present for Australian women
• Three big trends – the ageing population, the rise of AI,
and the growing perception that people expect more
of government – pose challenges for Australia and
government policy.

• However, they also present opportunities for Australian
women that might not be fully appreciated.
• How might the federal budget – and government policy more
generally – help ensure that these opportunities are taken?
Thanks to the Women in Economics Network for the
opportunity to speak to you today and share the stage with
such accomplished professional colleagues. I am grateful
for the important work WEN does. Economics is a science of
human behaviour. Our endowments, our priorities and – in some

circumstances – our physiology can all matter for our choices
and our economic outcomes. If economics does not incorporate
those diverse perspectives, it loses the ability to explain human
behaviour. A profession that is more balanced across both sexes
is critical to getting that diversity of perspectives.
With so much going on in the world, it is all too easy to fixate
on immediate problems, ignoring the longer-term issues – and
opportunities. Today I want step back and talk about those

longer-term trends. I will:
• outline three big trends shaping current and future outcomes
• highlight the opportunities these trends present for
Australian women – not just the downsides
• suggest some ways that the federal budget, and
government more broadly, might promote those
opportunities, rather than focus only on the downsides.
These three trends are:
• The ageing population
• The AI technology revolution – and it is a revolution
• Rising expectations of government – perceived or real

Ageing population, growing workforce
Many in the room will be under the impression that population
ageing means a shrinking workforce. I am here to tell you that
this is not true. Work with my Westpac colleague Ryan Wells
back in September shows that in most Western economies, the
labour force participation rate is in fact rising. In Australia it is on
a five-decade up-trend, reaching historical highs in recent years.
Yes, the share of older people in the population is increasing.

Population ageing happens because we are living longer,
healthier lives. People will make different choices when
lifespans lengthen. They will work for longer and retire later.
Part of this stems from policy changes, such as higher pension
eligibility ages. But much of it is the choices people make,
knowing that they would otherwise need to fund very long
retirements, and knowing that they do not need to retire early
due to ill-health in the same numbers as previous generations

did. Thus participation rates within age groups rise, especially
the 55–64 age group. This can be (and for Australia, so far is)
enough to offset the rising share of older people.
The reason for this counter-intuitive result is an example of
first-round thinking not being enough. We need to account
for people’s responses changing as circumstances change.
Just as Toyota taught us to ask “why” five times to get to
the root cause, we must ask, “and then what?” five times to

understand how a longer-term trend will play out. Changes in
age mix do not happen in isolation. The “and then what” is that
participation rates within age groups rise and can more than
offset an ageing population mix.
I suspect that people also missed this trend because it is not
happening in the United States. US life expectancy has not
really increased in the past couple of decades; premature
death is much higher than in peers such as Australia and

Europe. And so participation of the 55–64 age group, and even
the prime-age 25–54 group, in the US lags other advanced
economies. The gap is now such that overall participation
in Japan is noticeably higher than in the US, despite Japan’s
population being much older on average.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women
Population ageing does present opportunities for women.
First, some of the increase in overall participation stems from
still-rising participation by women in the 25–54 age group,

not just from older workers. There will always be some jobs
– say, furniture removal – where male upper body strength
will remain an advantage. As the workforce changes, though,
job design will need to evolve to fit those changes, and the
changes driven by an ageing workforce and a more female
workforce are likely similar.
In addition, as lifespans and working lives lengthen, career breaks
for family reasons become less of a setback in the accumulation

of retirement savings. Since women are more likely to take such
breaks than men, this eases a current disadvantage.
How the federal budget might support this
If government wants to realise the opportunities created by an
ageing population and an expanding workforce that is older and
more female, it should do everything it can to smooth the path
for women to enter the workforce, re-enter the workforce after
a break, and stay in the workforce as long as they feel able.

===== Page 224 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Getting the NDIS on a sustainable footing and back to its core
purposes of supporting the severely disabled and reducing
family members’ caring burden is a singular example of what is
needed. The “sandwich generation” task of caring for children
and elderly parents simultaneously is a disproportionately

borne by women. Well-funded support in schools, with
support and training for teachers and parents alike, may
support some families with children currently on the NDIS
better than a system that creates more life admin by funding
appointments with service providers, which parents need to
attend with their children.
More broadly, designing every program with the principle of
reducing life admin for families should be a red thread through
all federal and state initiatives.

Tax and retirement policy could be reshaped to ensure women
who took career breaks are not held back by cliff effects and
complexity from accumulating the needed retirement savings.
I note also that much of Australia’s economic policy apparatus
has been built on the false assumption that ageing results
in a shrinking workforce. Separately, therefore, budgets,
the Intergenerational Review and other policies should be
revisited so forecasts and program design can be based on

actual trends, not first-round thinking.
AI and the new technology wave
Turning to the AI revolution – I use that word intentionally. The
scope and capability of this new general-purpose technology
have expanded enormously, with a pace that defies belief.
Anything you thought about this technology based on what
you knew six months ago is obsolete. There is a lot we do not
know about how this will play out. Still, we can think through
some implications, again beyond the first round of responses.

How this is an opportunity for Australian women
I see three opportunities from the AI revolution that might
specifically benefit women. Firstly, with everything being so new
and moving so quickly that almost nobody knows anything, it is
easier to step into a field, or back into the workforce after a pause.
Seismic breaks in the landscape of work mean past career breaks
in a CV should be less of a disadvantage.
Secondly, AI might weaken the hold of what Harvard

economics professor Claudia Goldin termed “greedy jobs”,
those where long, continual hours are expected and frenetic
pace early on builds experience and skills that allow career
progression later. If agents can instead carry the context and
assist with some tasks, “always on” continuity becomes less
of an imperative. The jobs may become greedier of cognitive
skills and the ability to orchestrate all those agents. Relative
to careers that demand sheer “presence” and long, frenetic

hours early in your career, though, this should help level the
playing field between the two sexes, provided institutional
norms also change. (I recognise this is a critical assumption.)
Thirdly, granted there is still much uncertainty and debate
about which jobs will remain in demand and which will be less
prevalent as this technology percolates. There is, however,
good reason to believe that those least prone to full automation
include those in-person, so-called ‘caring’ occupations that have

provided so many job opportunities for women.
I note also that Australia is well-placed more broadly to take
advantage of this new technology. Contrary to the stereotype
of Australia being mostly about resources and financial
services, this country has a burgeoning software industry that
is already taking advantage of the newest tools. Coming from
almost nothing a decade ago, Australia now boasts a software
licensing export industry that brought in $9½ billion of export

revenue in 2025. For perspective, this is bigger than aluminium
or copper, and almost as big as last year’s wheat exports.
I would also note that concerns about unequal returns to the
AI boom are less relevant in Australia. Even if all the profits
accrue to a few tech firms – a debatable proposition – almost
all Australians will have exposure to this upside through their
superannuation funds.
How the federal budget might support this
Of course, there was no government program or special initiative

to create a software export industry. And this points to what the
budget, and government, can and should do in this space – don’t
get in the way of the good bits or think that it is the government’s
role to lead and guide in every realm of endeavour.
There are of course privacy, child protection and national
security angles to AI tools that warrant intervention and an
appropriate regulatory framework. Just don’t get in the way of
allowing women to lean into this future.

I note reports of government concern that AI might fuel work
intensification, which would be creating “greedy jobs” by other
means. Before rushing to regulate in this sphere, though, we
should check that intensification is a material issue. There
is reason to think the opposite might end up being true. As
agents become more reliable partners to hand off work to,
human cognitive contribution becomes both more important
and less time-bound. Just as the assumption that population

ageing would shrink the workforce turned out to be wrong, so
might the idea that AI necessarily intensifies work beyond an
initial period of experimentation.
Growing perception that people expect more of
government
The third big trend I want to address today might or might not
be real, but it is certainly a growing perception in policy circles:
that people expect more of government nowadays, and that
governments should therefore deliver on those expectations.

We see a rising call for government support in more
circumstances. The rapid growth in scope and cost of the NDIS
is the canonical example in a traditional area for government
involvement. Expanding industry policy shows how the scope
of policy can broaden as well as deepen.

===== Page 225 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
5
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Regulation and governance now touch an increasing set of
activities, and the nature of that regulation is expanding.
Whether it is the number of agencies firms need to seek
approval from to build something, or the number of pages
in the Income Tax Assessment Act (just one of current 12

volumes has a similar page count to the 1997 version), I am
reminded of that well-known feminist philosopher Avril
Lavigne’s lyric, “why’d you have to go and make things so
complicated?” The answer is, of course, that there was always
one more thing that someone with the best of intent thought
should be added.
The consequences of this belief about public expectations are
evident in the rising share of household income being paid
in income tax, rising regulatory footprint, and, as with some

of the public programs I have already mentioned, a rising life
admin burden that falls disproportionately on women.
I also worry that decisions to intervene shape decisions in
ways that harm future resilience. If every adverse event is met
with a government intervention to cushion the blow, a kind of
“learned helplessness” can emerge, for firms and industries as
well as individuals.
How this is an opportunity for Australian women
The consequences of this belief are not all bad, though. An

area where the footprint of government has expanded to the
benefit of women has been greater scope of crisis payments,
especially for women and children escaping domestic and
family violence. To the extent that this means more women can
escape violence in the first place, it is surely a good outcome.
In addition, as I noted earlier, the expansion of the “care
economy” and the regulatory footprint more broadly has been
positive for women’s employment. Especially in a relatively

sex-segregated occupational job market like Australia’s,
health, education and social care roles are disproportionately
female-coded. Using the industry of a person’s main job
to categorise, women and girls make up 48% of total
employment, but more than 70% of employment in health,
social care and their sub-industries. Public administration
and financial services also have above-average female
employment shares.
How the federal budget might address this

Still, it would be good if these benefits could be reaped
without all the admin, the complexity and the cost of our
current system. If there is one thing I would hope for from this
and future budgets, it is to take Ms Lavigne’s words to heart
and make things less complicated.
Every intervention deserves scrutiny on this front. Without
advocating specific changes, I instead offer the principle that
governments should hesitate and ideally refrain from policies

and programs where the answer to any of the following
questions is “yes”.
• Does the intervention take away choice?
• Does the intervention promote learned helplessness?
• Has the support been overcomplicated?
• Does the intervention involve re-litigation of a safety standard
or an evidence base that has already been established
elsewhere?
On the last of these, the axiom I have in mind is “if it is safe
enough for Europeans, it should be safe enough for Australians”.

There are some exceptions, such as the need to build differently
in a bushfire-prone continent. But from car booster seats to
bike helmet laws for adults, Australia has shown a consistent
tendency to go further on perceived safety than its European
counterparts. Similarly, if evidence reviews by the health
authorities of enough peer European nations show that a
particular medical intervention is ineffective, we do not need
to redo the analysis on smaller Australian datasets to stop

performing and funding that intervention here.
Conclusion
To sum up, it is an uncertain world, though nobody ever says
things are less uncertain than usual. All the more reason to
keep sight of the big trends that will shape our futures even
when current volatility is past. The good news is that these
trends present opportunities for Australian women, but only
if we ensure that other priorities – real or perceived – do not
prevent us from making use of these opportunities. Thank you.

===== Page 226 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
THE WEEK THAT WAS
Cliff Notes: dynamic risks
buckled into deficit  in March for the first time since 2017.
Higher fuel import costs (+37.4%) and volatility in gold played
important roles. But the chief culprit behind the surprise was
a remarkable surge in data processing machine imports, up

$2.9bn or 300% in the month. While noisy and likely a wash
for GDP – being offset by inventories or investment – this
is clear evidence of the global AI investment drive reaching
Australia’s shores.
Offshore, markets have been pre-occupied by developments
in the Middle East. At the beginning of the week, President
Trump announced Project Freedom, an initiative to provide
safe passage through the Strait of Hormuz to ships stuck in the
Persian Gulf. As soon as the operation commenced though,

skirmishes were seen between the US and Iranian military.
UAE energy infrastructure was also targeted.
The US did not retaliate, however, instead referencing an end
to the offensive portion of this war. And, within two days,
Project Freedom was suspended indefinitely to make way for
further intermediated negotiations. Reports suggest progress
has been made, albeit without detail. Iran is arguably coming
under greater pressure to make a deal, with China’s Foreign

Minister emphasising this week the need for a quick end to
the conflict and re-opening of the Strait while meeting Iran’s
Foreign Minister. The timing of this development is not a
surprise considering President Trump and President Xi are due
to meet mid-month.
Data releases were uneventful this week. The ISM services
index for April eased slightly to 53.6. The new orders index fell
7.1pts to 53.5, slightly below its 10-year pre-COVID average,
and the employment indicator rose 4pts but remained weak

versus history. The latest JOLTS job openings data and ADP
private payrolls release were broadly consistent with balance
between labour demand and supply. For the FOMC, this will
keep the focus on inflation risks. Guidance given by FOMC
members this week was consistent with this view.
A full update on our expectations for the global economy,
Australia and New Zealandis available on Westpac IQ in our
May Westpac Market Outlook .
In an 8-1 vote, the RBA Monetary Policy Board (MPB)

delivered its third consecutive rate hike , raising the cash
rate by 25bps to its prior peak of 4.35%. The MPB stated
that “the conflict in the Middle East has resulted in sharply
higher fuel and related commodity prices” and that “this
is likely to have second-round effects on prices for goods
and services more broadly.” Inflation is now expected “to
remain above target for some time”. The MPB are also
attune to the risk of “price rises get[ting] built into longer

term inflation expectations” in the event of a longer, or more
severe, conflict.
In a video update midweek, Chief Economist Luci Ellis  noted
that Governor Bullock’s press conference was a bit more
dovish than we had anticipated, with the last three hikes
framed as giving some space for the MPB to assess how
the risks evolve. That said, the staff’s forecasts – which are
predicated on an assumption of around one-and-a-half more
rate hikes – have underlying inflation peaking at 3.8%yr in Q2

2026 and not returning to target until the end of its forecast
horizon at June 2028. Inflation risks are firmly skewed towards
a higher peak and potentially a slower return to target. We
therefore continue to expect another two rate hikes from
the RBA in coming months. But, given Governor Bullock’s
somewhat more cautious tone, we admit the case for June is
now more finely balanced.
Rate hikes already look to be having an effect on the housing
market, with national dwelling price growth  slowing from a

monthly pace of 0.6% in January to 0.2% in April. Performance
across the capital cities is mixed, with prices down in Sydney
and Melbourne prices but still rising in Brisbane, Adelaide and
Perth. While a firming uptrend for dwelling approvals  bodes
well for supply, cost pressures stemming from the Middle East
conflict will likely cause delays and some second thoughts on
projects planned but not commenced.
Trends across other parts of the economy are also starting to

shift. The ABS’ nominal household spending indicator bounced
1.6% in March on account of higher fuel costs, mirroring our own
consumer card activity data. Abstracting from price effects, we
expect real consumption to gain 0.6% in Q1; however, outside of
fuel and electricity (buoyed by the rebate roll-off), the spending
pulse looks faint. This speaks to the more challenging economic
outlook taking hold across the nation, particularly in non-mining

states where revenue constraints and higher expenses provide
less scope for fiscal support.
Before moving offshore, a final note on trade. Unlike the
shocks of recent years which benefitted Australia’s net trade
position, recent data revealed the nominal goods trade surplus
Elliot Clarke, Head of International Economics
Illiana Jain, Economist
Ryan Wells, Economist

===== Page 227 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOCUS ON NEW ZEALAND
All right so far
Michael Gordon
Senior Economist
The March quarter labour market surveys continued a
refrain that we’re probably going to be hearing for a few
more months: the New Zealand economy was starting to
find its footing again prior to the Iran conflict. Whether

subsequent events prove to be a delay to the recovery
process, or something more serious, remains to be seen. But
it’s important to note that New Zealand was coming into this
shock with different inflation dynamics to our Australian
cousins, with activity only just starting to gain momentum
and a significant degree of slack in the labour market.
The Household Labour Force Survey (HLFS) showed the
unemployment rate ticking down from 5.4% to 5.3% in

the March quarter, its first decline after four straight years
of increases. This was better than the flat result that we
and the market were expecting, but it was in line with the
RBNZ’s (now somewhat dated) February Monetary Policy
Statement forecasts.
The number of people employed rose by 0.2% over the March
quarter, following a 0.5% rise in the previous quarter. This was
broadly in line with the Monthly Employment Indicator (MEI),
a more comprehensive measure that is based on income tax

data but does have some definitional differences. The level
of employment is now up 0.4% on a year ago – though that’s
still behind the rate of growth in the working-age population,
which was up 1.1% despite the subdued migration trends over
the last year.
The evidence of a lift in activity was consistent across a range
of measures. The HLFS found a 0.8% rise in total hours worked,
on top of the 1.2% rise in the December quarter. ‘Usual’ hours
rose by a more modest 0.4%, indicating that employers are

continuing to try to get more out of their existing workers before
resorting to hiring again. Meanwhile the business-focused
Quarterly Employment Survey (QES) reported a 0.7% rise
in full-time equivalent workers and 0.6% gains in filled jobs
and paid hours. All of these are supportive of our forecast of a
0.8% rise in March quarter GDP (which we expect will also be
boosted by seasonal distortions).
Beneath these generally positive results, there are some clear

indications of the unevenness of economic conditions to date.
One is that the unemployment rate has broadly levelled out in
the South Island over the last two years, while steadily rising in
the North Island. The strong returns to the agricultural sector
are likely to have been a factor in this divergence, although not
the only one.
Another is the quarterly flows between labour force status,
which starkly demonstrate the “no-fire, no-hire” jobs market.

The rate of job losses, which never rose particularly high during
the downturn, has now fallen back to levels that in the past
would’ve been consistent with a tight labour market. But for
those who do find themselves out of work, it's harder to get
back in than it has been for decades.
Given the rapid escalation of the conflict in the Middle East,
any economic data relating to the March quarter is inevitably
going to come across as dated. (The March month is too soon

to expect to see a labour market response, as it tends to be
one of the more lagging aspects of the economic cycle.) We’ll
be keeping an eye on higher-frequency data for any signs of
emerging stress, such as the weekly filled jobs snapshots

===== Page 228 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
8
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
provided by Stats NZ. The timeliest of these measures, which
goes up to the week ended 12 April, suggests that things are
holding in so far, with the number of jobs continuing to track
slightly above year-ago levels.
Wage pressures – which are even more of a lagging indicator

– remained subdued in the March quarter. The Labour Cost
Index (LCI) rose by 0.5% for the quarter, leaving annual growth
unchanged at 2.0%. The distribution of pay increases continues
to converge on the 2-3% range, compared to the larger
increases that had become more common in previous years.
This is unsurprising given the degree of spare capacity in the
labour market that has accumulated over the last few years: an
unemployment rate of 5.3% is some way above the ‘neutral’

or non-inflationary rate, which we would put in the range
of 4-4.5%. This is a crucial difference between now and the
post-Covid inflationary surge, where an extremely tight labour
market created the conditions for a feedback loop between
wage and price inflation.
Given the slightly better than expected starting point for the
March quarter, we will be reviewing our near term labour market
forecasts in our latest Economic Overview next Wednesday.

===== Page 229 =====

Past performance is not a reliable indicator of future performance. The forecasts given above are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, 
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
9
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUS: March Wage Price Index (%qtr)
May 13 Last: 0.8, Westpac f/c: 0.8 
Mkt f/c: 0.8, Range: 0.8 to 0.9
The Wage Price Index (WPI) rose 0.8% in December, on par 
with Westpac and the market estimate. The annual pace lifted 
from 3.3%yr to 3.4%yr but this was largely due to regular 
revisions of seasonal factors which revised down September’s 
print. More Importantly, we have two quarters of 0.8%, a step 
down from the 0.9%qtr prints in the first half of 2025. 
We continue to see a step down in Individual Arrangements 
wages offsetting a pick-up in Awards and Enterprise 
Bargaining wages holding our March quarter increase to 0.8% 
which will see the annual pace ease back to 3.3%yr. 
All eyes will be on the upcoming Minimum Wage/Award rates 
of pay decision. Our current forecast for a 0.8% increase in the 
September quarter incorporates a 4.25% decision.  
AUS: 2026/27 Federal Budget
May 12
The energy supply shock arising from the Middle East conflict 
is the dominant influence on next week’s Budget. Recent 
messaging highlights a dual focus on near-term cost-of-living 
and business support, alongside medium term reforms aimed at 
strengthening economic resilience and productivity.

Parameter variations, largely driven by higher commodity 
prices, are expected to deliver a net boost of around $27bn 
over the four years to FY2029. Policy decisions are modest, 
and front loaded, subtracting around $2bn over the same 
period. Underlying measures, however, are significant, 
including increased defence investment, health funding and 
energy security initiatives. Execution will be critical to avoid a 
deterioration in the fiscal position, particularly amid ongoing 
inflation pressures. For more detail, see our full preview.
AUS: Q1 Housing Finance Approvals (%qtr)
May 13 Last: 9.5, Westpac f/c: 7.0 
Mkt f/c: 0.1, Range: –3.0 to 7.0
The total value of housing finance approvals rose 9.5% in 
Q4, lifting annual growth to 23.5%yr after upward revisions. 
Owner-occupiers drove the surge, with first home buyers 
particularly active following the expanded 5% deposit 
guarantee scheme. Investor lending was also strong, up 
7.9%qtr and 31.8%yr.
The Q1 update is expected to show another robust gain.  
Credit growth accelerated in early 2026 with another notable 
step up in investor housing credit growth to 9.6%yr. The 
expanded First Homebuyer Guarantee scheme is also likely to 
have had a continued boost. Against this, turnover and price 
growth in the established softened a touch in Q1. All up, we 
expect the total value of finance approvals to post a 7% gain.

===== Page 230 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
10
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
NZ: Q2 RBNZ Survey of Inflation Expectations (%yr)
May 13, Two years ahead last: 2.37
This is one of several surveys the RBNZ will be watching to
see if the current uplift in inflation is contributing to a more
enduring uplift in pricing pressures. The survey’s measures of

inflation expectations, including the closely watched two-year
ahead measure, had already picked up even before the recent
uplift in oil prices. With signs of increasingly widespread
cost pressures emerging in recent weeks, the risks are tilted
towards another step higher in the latest survey. Other recent
surveys of expected inflation and pricing intentions have
already taken a step higher.
NZ: Apr REINZ House Sales and Prices (%yr)
May 14, Sales last: -0.1, Prices last: 0.2

March proved to be a slightly perkier month for the housing
market, with house prices picking up for a second straight
month. However, the trend in sales has remained largely
sideways, and there are indications of a softening in activity
in April (even after accounting for the public holidays during
the month). Aside from the uncertainty engendered by the
Iran conflict, mortgage rates have been lifting off their lows
for several months now. We’re forecasting a 1% fall in prices

over 2026.
NZ: Apr Monthly Selected Prices  (%mth)
May 15
Petrol prices are expected to be up 16%. However, the
bigger focus will be on any downstream impacts that are
emerging. At this stage, such impacts will most likely be seen
in transport related costs, such as airfares. Other related cost
increases are likely to become more evident over the next few
months. We also expect another firm 2% rise in electricity
prices. While such cost increases will be the focus, there

could be some softness in areas like holiday accommodation.
Housing rents (the single biggest component of the CPI)
are also likely to remain soft – we’re expecting another flat
result (in contrast to the usual seasonal lift). Food prices are
expected to be up 0.5%, with the rise in the minimum wage
likely to boost hospitality prices modestly.

===== Page 231 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
11
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
US: Apr CPI (%mth)
May 12 Last: 0.9, Westpac f/c: 0.8
Mkt f/c: 0.6, Range: 0.4 to 0.7
In March, the first consequences for US consumer inflation
from the Middle East conflict became clear as headline
prices rose 0.9% in the month. Notably though, there was no

evidence of secondary effects, with food prices flat and core
inflation benign at 0.2%.
A similar breakdown is likely in April. We forecast a 0.8% gain
in headline prices, but only a 0.3% lift excluding food and
energy. Secondary passthrough is likely to take time to show
itself, particularly given the deceleration in consumer demand
growth to a below-trend pace evident over the past year.
Still, along with tight capacity, the margin compression being

experienced is an additional reason to believe US inflation will
remain above target for the foreseeable future.

===== Page 232 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
12
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOR THE WEEK AHEAD
What to watch
For Data/Event Unit Last
Market
f/c
Westpac
f/c Risk/Comment
Mon 11
Chn Apr CPI %ann 1.0 0.9 – Energy costs providing a boost to inflation ...
Apr PPI %ann 0.5 1.8 – ... but spare upstream capacity remains.
US Apr Existing Home Sales %mth –3.6 2.4 – Low turnover in established market reflects rate pressures.

Tue 12
Aus Apr NAB Business Conditions index 6 – – Conditions stable despite a collapse in confidence.
2026/27 Federal Budget – – – – Commodity price windfalls will support the bottom-line.
Jpn Mar Household Spending %ann –1.8 –1.3 – Households on fragile footing, even before Middle East.
Eur May ZEW Survey Of Expectations index –20.4 – – Views on economic growth have deteriorated materially.
US Apr NFIB Small Business Optimism index 95.8 96.0 – Small businesses showing concern, but not outright stress yet.

Apr CPI %mth 0.9 0.6 0.8 Energy buoys headline, capacity constraints keep core elevated.
Fedspeak – – – – Goolsbee.
Wed 13
Aus Q1 Wage Price Index %qtr 0.8 0.8 0.8 Individual bargained wages have been moderating.
Q1 Housing Finance Approvals %qtr 9.5 0.1 7.0 Investors and FHB schemes to boost lending activity.
NZ Q2 RBNZ Inflation Expectations %ann 2.4 – – RBNZ will be watching for signs of lift at longer horizons.
Jpn Mar Current Account Balance ¥bn 3932.7 3884.9 – Yen appreciation and financial market volatility at play.

Eur Q1 GDP %qtr 0.1 0.1 – Second estimate will provide more detail around drivers.
Mar Industrial Production %mth 0.4 – – Slipping back into contraction as cost pressures lift.
US Apr PPI %mth 0.5 0.5 – Clear evidence of upstream price pressures coming through.
Fedspeak – – – – Kashkari.
Thu 14
Aus May MI Inflation Expectations %ann 5.9 – – Will the fuel excise cut re-anchor near-term expectations?
NZ Apr REINZ House Prices %yr 0.2 – – Sale prices have ticked up in recent months…

REINZ House Sales %yr –0.1 – – …but rising mortgage rates likely to weigh on turnover.
Mar Net Migration no. 3970 – – Balance turning more positive as departures slow.
UK Q1 GDP %ann 0.1 – – Growth jump may prove fleeting as war impacts emerge.
US Apr Import Price Index %mth 0.8 1.0 – Surge centred squarely on petroleum imports.
Initial Jobless Claims 000s 200 – – Still at a very low level versus history.
Apr Retail Sales %mth 1.7 0.5 – Another step-down in consumer momentum likely in Q2.

Mar Business Inventories %mth 0.4 0.3 – Inventory-to-sales falling as inventory rebuild persists.
Fedspeak – – – – Hammack.
Fri 15
NZ Apr Manufacturing PMI index 53.2 – – Solid in March but Iran conflict may weigh more heavily now.
Apr Selected Price Indices - Food %mth –0.6 – 0.5 Modest boost from minimum wages in the hospitality sector.
Apr Selected Price Indices - Rents %mth 0.0 – 0.0 Rental growth weak in the face of ample supply.
US Apr Industrial Production %mth –0.5 0.2 – Regional surveys point to a solid month of factory output ...

May Fed Empire State Manufacturing index 11 8 – ... but uncertainty over the outlook is starting to weigh.

===== Page 233 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
13
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
LOOKING FURTHER AHEAD
Interest rate forecasts
Australia Latest (8 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Cash 4.35 4.35 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.60 4.35
90 Day BBSW 4.44 4.55 4.90 4.90 4.95 4.95 4.95 4.80 4.55 4.30

3 Year Swap 4.64 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
3 Year Bond 4.63 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
10 Year Bond 4.96 5.00 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.00 4.95 4.90 4.90
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 57 65 65 60 55 50 40 30 20 15
United States
Fed Funds 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625
US 10 Year Bond 4.39 4.35 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.60 4.65 4.70 4.75
New Zealand
Cash 2.25 2.25 2.50 3.00 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.25 4.25

90 Day Bill 2.63 2.50 2.95 3.40 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.45 4.45 4.45
2 Year Swap 3.55 3.75 4.05 4.30 4.40 4.40 4.40 4.35 4.30 4.25
10 Year Bond 4.67 4.85 4.95 5.00 5.05 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 28 50 55 55 55 55 50 45 40 35
Exchange rate forecasts
Latest (8 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar-28 Jun-28
AUD/USD 0.7203 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.73
NZD/USD 0.5934 0.59 0.59 0.62 0.64 0.66 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67

USD/JPY 156.89 157 156 154 152 150 148 146 144 142
EUR/USD 1.1730 1.18 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.22
GBP/USD 1.3552 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.41
USD/CNY 6.8023 6.80 6.75 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35
AUD/NZD 1.2139 1.22 1.22 1.18 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.10
Australian economic forecasts
2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
% change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
GDP %qtr 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 – – – –

%yr end 2.1 2.6 2.6 1.9 1.6 1.0 0.9 1.1 2.6 1.0 1.6 2.8
Unemployment rate % * 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.4 4.6 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.3 4.9 4.9 4.5
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 – – – –
%yr end 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.2 3.0 3.4
Headline CPI %qtr 1.3 0.6 1.4 1.5 1.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 – – – –
%yr end 3.2 3.6 4.1 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.1 3.2 3.6 4.9 2.5 2.2
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr 1.0 0.9 0.8 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 – – – –
%yr end 3.0 3.4 3.5 3.9 4.0 4.0 4.0 3.6 3.4 4.0 3.0 2.4

* Quarter–average.
Economic & financial forecasts
New Zealand economic forecasts
2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
% Change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2024 2025 2026f 2027f
GDP %qtr 0.9 0.2 0.8 –0.4 0.5 1.9 2.5 3.7 – – – –
Annual avg change –0.6 0.2 0.6 1.2 1.3 1.5 1.9 2.4 0.2 1.5 3.5 3.3
Unemployment rate % 5.3 5.4 5.3 5.6 5.6 5.4 5.1 4.9 5.4 5.4 4.6 4.2
CPI %qtr 1.0 0.6 0.9 1.9 0.9 0.3 0.3 0.1 – – – –
Annual change 3.0 3.1 3.1 4.5 4.4 4.1 3.4 1.5 3.1 4.1 1.7 2.6

===== Page 234 =====

===== Page 235 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 236 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 237 =====

1
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
WESTPAC
MARKET
OUTLOOK
May 2026
Your monthly report on Australia and the global economy.

===== Page 238 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Australia 3
Financial markets:
Global markets navigate ongoing conflict  4
Australian economy:
Energy shock slows growth, lifts inflation  6
The World
Middle East:
A slower normalisation in shipping flows  8
Commodities:
Oil prices remain bounded by headlines 10

Global FX:
FX markets waiting for clear air  12
New Zealand:
Early impacts of Iran war as expected 14
China:
Playing comparative 16
United States:
Economic opportunity  18
Japan:
A coordinated policy response needed  20
Europe & UK:
Keep calm 22
Summary forecast tables
Australia – financial 24
Australia – economic 25
New Zealand 26
Commodity prices 27
United States 28
Europe 29
Asia 30
Global growth 31
Westpac Market Outlook is a monthly publication

produced by Westpac Economics.
Internet: www.westpac.com.au
Email: economics@westpac.com.au
This issue was finalised on 8 May 2026.
westpaciq.com.au
WESTPAC MARKET OUTLOOK
May 2026
CONTENTS

===== Page 239 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
EXECUTIVE SUMMARY
Developments coming out of the Middle East have largely
been touch-and-go over recent weeks, with brief stints of
optimism over progress towards a resolution punctuated
by breakdowns and occasional skirmishes. That continues
to produce sharp swings and contrasts across core asset

markets: US and Asian equities pushing above pre-conflict
levels despite Brent oil hitting a new cycle high and while
yields remaining elevated but range bound. We have again
refreshed our baseline scenario to incorporate recent
developments but this time with minimal changes to our key
economic forecasts.
With less scope to ‘look through’ the shock, policymaker
assessments have started to shift. Both monetary and
fiscal arms are moving to incorporate higher inflation, lower

growth, and weaker labour markets into their ‘baseline’
forecasts, while flagging that more adverse scenarios could
make it even tougher for policies to balance inflation and
growth risks.
But with so much uncertainty hanging over the course of
the conflict, policy is effectively in ‘no man’s land’. Central
banks are left having to navigate with extreme caution – the
Fed, ECB, BoE, BoJ and BoC all opting to keep policy on
hold for now and the RBA raising rates but looking for some

breathing room to pause as well. Different starting points
and exposures to the shock will likely necessitate distinct
paths over time. For the record, we still expect another two
rate hikes from the RBA this year, but with a slightly later
timing – August and September. In contrast, the US is in a
better position to weather inflation risks and unlikely to see
the Fed alter its policy stance for some time.
The upcoming 2026/27 Federal Budget faces a similar

balancing act. As our preview sets out, the government will
have some windfall gains to work with but support measures
will need to be carefully calibrated given the backdrop of
inflation risks. Wilfred Owen – the quintessential wartime poet
– once described no man’s land as “like the face of the moon,
chaotic, crater-ridden, uninhabitable, awful, the abode of
madness.” Ideally policymakers will navigate this threatening
terrain in a coordinated rather than haphazard way.

Australia: The RBA hiked the cash rate this month, and
while it seeks some breathing space, we expect further hikes
later, in August and September. The more hawkish policy
environment here is evident in both bond and FX market
developments. The real economy is heading for an abrupt
slowdown, with higher unemployment but also higher
inflation in the near term.
Middle East: The normalisation of shipping traffic through
the Strait of Hormuz will be more drawn out than we

previously assumed. Our revised baseline assumptions point
to a more persistent energy price shock, with tighter demand
and supply balances extending into 2027 and beyond, and
Brent crude oil prices remaining elevated for longer.
Commodities: April was a mixed month with our broadest
commodities index down 1% since our last update. We have
revised up our forecasts for crude (US$110/bbl for Q2 2026,
US$87/bbl for Q4 2026) and lifted the profile by around 20% to

30% through 2027, finishing at a quarter-average of US$67/bbl.
Global FX Markets: When we released the April edition of
Market Outlook, the DXY index sat at 98.2. Today it is also at
98.2 and, in the intervening period, the index traded a 1 point
range – the definition of marking time.
New Zealand: Surveys point to a large fall in optimism as
firms and households grapple with the impact of higher fuel
prices on profitability and disposable income. Over coming

months, higher fuel prices will lead to a sharp lift in CPI
inflation and the RBNZ will need to be vigilant for signs of
second-round price increases that cause inflation to persist
over the medium term. We continue to expect the OCR to rise
in September.
United States: Earnings beats have seen equities rebound
to record levels. At the same time, though, consumption growth
has fallen below trend and housing investment is contracting.
In many respects, the economic outlook is highly uncertain.

China: Presidents Xi and Trump are due to meet to discuss
China/US relations in May. Data point to a stark difference in
perspectives which will shape risks and opportunities.
Japan: Japan’s domestic fundamentals make a compelling
case for the BoJ to continue normalising policy, even as the
Middle East conflict and a weakening yen threaten to turn
demand-pull inflation into cost-push.
Europe & UK: Major central banks in Europe maintained a
balanced stance this month. But with a definitive end to the

Middle East conflict out of sight, the ECB and Bank of England
looking increasingly likely to hike sooner than later.
No man’s land

===== Page 240 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FINANCIAL MARKETS
Until this week, the US–Iran ceasefire had held remarkably
well. In particular, there had been no further destruction of
oil and gas infrastructure in other Gulf nations. The effects of
the latest attacks are unclear, but it remains the case that the

main issue for the global economy is how long the Strait of
Hormuz remains effectively shut. While some ships are able
to exit the Gulf, few are entering. Our previous assumption of
eight weeks of full closure and a recovery in May to around
20% of normal traffic has had to be revised, and the ultimate
recovery is slower. There is nonetheless a potential upside
scenario to our baseline as well as a downside.
Markets have continued to look through the downside risk

to global growth and have instead tended to price in rate
hikes for a number of central banks, and price out the earlier
expected cuts by the Federal Reserve. We had already
factored in this less dovish path for the Fed funds rate, given
the underlying capacity pressures in the US economy.
Senior central bank officials from the Bank of England, ECB
and Bank of Canada have tended to push back on the more
hawkish pricing, preferring a more wait-and-see approach.

Accordingly, these central banks all kept policy rates on hold
in recent weeks, though they have contemplated possible
responses to a more protracted conflict.
Meanwhile, bond markets have mostly been in a holding
pattern in recent weeks. At both ends of the curve, sovereign
yields are little changed since late March. There has been a
bit more amplitude in yield movements for US Treasuries and
UK gilts than other comparable markets. Since the last Market

Outlook was published, 3-year yields in these two markets
have lifted around 15bps from what turned out to be a brief
trough, and 10-year yields have lifted a little less than this.
Exchange rates have also been in something of a holding
pattern since the last Market Outlook, in contrast to the large
moves in the first few weeks of the conflict. DXY has been
little changed, with the USD also largely unchanged against
the euro  and RMB over this period, though it has depreciated

against several currencies in the Asia–Pacific region, including
AUD, NZD and yen. The AUD now looks richly priced on a real
effective basis, reflecting the higher rates outlook. Less certain
is whether there has been any additional role for the earlier
sell-off in the USD. On a real effective basis, though, the USD
is only about 1½% lower since the end of last year.
As expected, the RBA Monetary Policy Board (MPB) raised
the cash rate 25bps to 4.35% following its May 2026 meeting.

The vote was again split, this time 8–1, after the 5–4 vote in
March. In explaining the decision, the MPB cited the higher
inflation stemming from the Middle East conflict, including
second-round effects, with risks tilted to the upside. These
Global markets navigate ongoing conflict ...
Luci Ellis
Chief Economist, Westpac Group

===== Page 241 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
5
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FINANCIAL MARKETS
... while RBA tries to make space in inflation fight
added to the inflationary pressures already arising from what
it sees as capacity pressures. It also noted indications that
“higher fuel prices are likely to have second-round effects on

prices for goods and services more broadly”.
We still expect two more RBA rate hikes after the one this
week. However, we now think that the MPB will want to
pause in June. In the post-meeting media conference, Governor
Bullock characterised the three rate hikes so far as dealing
with the high inflation issue that already existed before the
conflict in the Middle East started, and that this “gives space”
for the MPB to see how the conflict plays out. Together with

the dissenting vote, we read this as saying that another back-
to-back hike in June is no longer a better-than-50% chance. It
is not a zero chance, either, but it should not be the base case.
The MPB will not have much time to catch breath, though. Our
assessment is that second-round pass-through will be stronger,
and oil prices higher, than the RBA’s forecasts imply.  Our
forecasts for trimmed mean inflation are therefore higher than
the RBA’s in the near term. Once it peaks, though, we expect

a faster unwind. Extending our forecast to end-2028 shows a
material risk that trimmed mean inflation will undershoot the
2½% midpoint of the RBA’s 2–3% target range.
Our rates view is, as always, based on our assessment of what
the RBA will do if things turn out as we expect, in line with our
own forecasts. We therefore retain our view that two further
hikes are more likely than one. It will take some time before
the need for the additional hikes becomes apparent in the data

and spurs a MPB decision, though.
We therefore push the timing of these two hikes out to August
and September. We think the Q2 and Q3 inflation data will be
something of a ‘wake-up call’ on the willingness of firms to
pass on increases in non-labour costs into their own prices.
Five rate hikes in less than nine months will bring monetary
policy to an explicitly restrictive stance. One perspective on
the RBA’s approach can be inferred from real bond yields,

which widened significantly relative to US equivalents late
last year, and briefly again when the Middle East conflict
began. While a spread of this size was also seen in the depths
of the pandemic and was normal in the early 2010s in the
wake of financial crisis, the divergence in direction has been
striking recently.
Once it becomes clear that inflation is on a better trajectory,
the MPB will be in a position to withdraw some of that
restrictiveness. We expect it will do so cautiously, however,

given the experience of 2025, where inflation rebounded
almost immediately after it started cutting the cash rate.
While the lag was too short and the upside surprise to activity
was too focused on business investment to be attributable to
monetary policy, the experience is likely to make the MPB a
little gun-shy.

===== Page 242 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY
After a relatively strong finish to 2025, the Australian
economy is heading for an abrupt slowdown in 2026 and
into 2027. Much of this is already in train – the re-tightening
in monetary conditions in the first few months is now
combining with a large global supply shock centred on energy

that is set to see some combination of higher inflation and
weaker growth. Key assumptions on the conflict remain
broadly unchanged: we continue to assume a very gradual
normalisation process for global energy supply. That points
to a more persistent and problematic rise in inflation locally
with the RBA expected to respond with two more 25bp
rate hikes, aimed at preventing a sustained rise in inflation
expectations. The bottom line is a very difficult year for the

economy: trimmed mean inflation lifting to 4% by year-end,
GDP growth stalling to just 1%yr and the unemployment rate
rising towards 5%.
Since our update last month, the flow of data and events has
largely evolved largely as expected. Domestically, partial
economic indicators have been mixed. The Q1 figures suggest
there was some ongoing residual strength in the economy from
the cyclical upturn that formed in the second half of 2025. The
ABS household spending indicator recorded a clear boost from

fuel in the March month, the 0.7%qtr gain in total real spend in
Q1 coming in stronger than expected, down only slightly from
the 1%qtr gain in Q4. However, there may be some technical
issues around how fuel price rises have been incorporated.
Additionally, year-ended growth in private credit rose a solid
8.1%yr in March 2026, exceeding 8.0%yr for the first time
since late 2022. Imports of capital also surprised on the
upside with imports of automated data processing machines

(i.e. computers and associated products, including NVIDIA’s
high-end AI chips) recording a remarkable four-fold increase
in the month of March, suggesting the data centre investment
boom has accelerated materially. And finally, monthly financial
accounts shows that the Federal government budget is running
around $17bn ahead of profile because growth in income-
based tax revenues (coming from wages and profits) has been
stronger than expected back in the December 2025 MYEFO.

However, the tail-end of Q1 and early Q2 figures are looking
materially softer. The income squeeze from higher fuel prices
and interest rates looks to be impacting the consumer more
heavily. Our Westpac-DataX Card Tracker suggests growth in
non-fuel spending is stalling with outright weakness starting
to emerge in discretionary services categories. Meanwhile
our Westpac Consumer Panel shows a similar story for the
month of March, with a clear moderation in the pace of savings

accumulation and a more pronounced shift across customers
with high energy spend relatively to total consumption.
Energy shock slows growth, lifts inflation ...
Pat Bustamante
Senior Economist
There have also been some notable shifts in the housing
market. Price growth nationally remained positive in April but
the pace is slowing with preliminary estimates pointing to a
decline in turnover as well. The turn is more pronounced in the
Sydney and Melbourne markets which are now in a correction

phase, prices down 0.9%qtr and 1.5%qtr in April, respectively.
Note that we have published updated state -based economic
and employment forecasts that are consistent with our
national forecasts. These point to a renewed divergence
in state performances as national growth slows. The
consumer-led states of NSW and Victoria are set to
experience the sharpest weakening, while the mining -based
economies of Queensland and WA are set to outperform,
supported by elevated energy prices and associated income

windfalls. South Australia also appears relatively well
positioned, underpinned by strength across both public and
private sector activity (see here).

===== Page 243 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIAN ECONOMY
... and narrows fiscal path
With another budget season underway, government finances
are back in the spotlight.
For state governments, the Middle East conflict has come
at a particularly bad time. Rather than a recovery in private

sector activity, we now expect a sharp slowdown as monetary
conditions re-tighten. This shift has material implications for
the states’ key tax bases, including payroll tax, stamp duty
and gambling taxes. Based on Westpac Economics’ outlook,
and our mapping from macro parameters to fiscal outcomes,
we estimate the combined state cash deficit will deteriorate by
around $50bn over the five years to FY2030 (see here).
The backdrop differs materially at the Federal level. As a

net energy exporter, Australia is benefiting from a surge in
commodity prices, particularly LNG and coal, lifting national
income. As we outlined back in March (see here), stronger
commodity prices and elevated inflation are expected to
generate a sizeable revenue windfall for the Commonwealth,
with around $20bn attributable to the Middle East conflict in
the near term. This should see the underlying cash balance
improve by around $13bn in 2025-26 relative to MYEFO, as

outlined in our final Budget preview ( here).
These upfront windfalls complicate the policy environment
heading into the May/June budget cycle. As we showed
in our April preview (see here), discretionary fiscal policy
in Australia has tended to be somewhat pro-cyclical,
becoming more activist as labour market risks rise but with
peak support landing well after it is most needed. From a
cyclical perspective, there is limited case for a large net fiscal

expansion. The fiscal impulse is already expansionary, with a
cumulative lift of around 3.5ppts of GDP over the three years
to FY2026, comparable to that seen during the GFC. Notably,
states have driven a disproportionate share of this expansion,
particularly early on in the cycle.
While the impulse is moderating, it remains slightly
expansionary into FY2027 even before incorporating
additional measures expected in upcoming budgets. Against
this backdrop, there is limited scope, or need, for a further

material increase. A more appropriate approach is targeted
redistribution within the existing fiscal envelope, supporting
households and businesses without amplifying the cycle.
In the near term, however, the risk is policy becomes too
expansionary. Recent budget announcements, particularly
from WA and Victoria, point to sizeable discretionary
measures at the state level, on top of some already announced
Federal cost-of-living support. While supportive for activity,

they risk leaving aggregate demand stronger than is
consistent with the RBA’s inflation target.
The broader lesson from past cycles is that fiscal policy tends
to be pro-cyclical and slow to unwind, with peak effects often
arriving after the economy has already turned. That risk is
heightened in the current environment, where a negative real
shock is coinciding with a positive nominal shock.

===== Page 244 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
8
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
MIDDLE EAST
It has become increasingly clear that the normalisation of
shipping traffic through the Strait of Hormuz will be more
drawn out than we previously assumed. We now expect
flows to take until mid-2027 to fully normalise. Given the
sustained disruption to both energy production in the

Middle East and shipping through the Strait of Hormuz, we
have raised our Q4 2026 Brent crude oil forecast to US$95/
bbl from US$75 previously. Prices are also expected to
remain higher in 2027, averaging US$68/bbl in Q4.
The ceasefire between the US and Iran announced on 8 April
has held, with no significant additional damage to energy or
port infrastructure since then. However, as expected it has not
led to a meaningful reopening of the Strait of Hormuz. The US is

maintaining pressure on Iran through a blockade on shipping to and
from Iranian ports, while Iran continues to use control of the Strait
as leverage. As such, flows through the Strait remain minimal.
In recent days the US has tabled a one page memorandum
of understanding aimed at breaking the shipping impasse.
Reportedly it includes Iran easing its grip on the Strait and the
US gradually lifting the naval blockade over a defined period.
However, even if agreed to this is not a permanent resolution

and the risk of ongoing episodes of tactical escalations leading
to short disruptions over the coming months remains high.
Moreover, as we have previously highlighted, even if the
Strait was to fully reopen tomorrow, a return to normal traffic
flow will take time, reflecting vessel repositioning, contract
realignment and elevated insurance costs. Against this
backdrop, we have revised our assumptions for the timing of
normalisation of flows through the Strait.

A slower normalisation in shipping flows ...
Sian Fenner
Head of Business & Industry Economics
We now assume a more modest lift in traffic from current lows,
reaching around 10–15% of pre-conflict levels through June,
with a return to normal flows not expected until mid-2027. This
compares with our previous assumption (published 30 March)
of flows of around 20% in May and June with a gradual recovery
to normal by end-2026. We continue to assume no additional

damage to regional energy infrastructure. We also assume that
Saudi Arabia and the UAE continue to divert around 7mb/d of
crude and refined products through pipelines to Yanbu on Saudi
Arabia’s Red Sea coast and to Fujairah in the UAE.
Global energy buffers falling sharply
Our assumption of a more sustained period of disruption
to shipping through the Strait means it will take longer for
smaller Gulf producers, including Kuwait, that have faced
some production ‘shut ins’ due to storage capacity constraints,

to return to normal. Given the depletion in global energy
buffers, we also expect a more modest offset from other
sources over the rest of 2026 than in recent months.
Indeed, while global oil stocks were ample at around 8.2bn
barrels heading into the conflict, the release of IEA strategic
reserves, estimated at around 400 million barrels, alongside
stronger Russian and US exports, has already led to a sharp
deterioration in global inventories, with these flows drawing

on floating storage as well as commercial and strategic
reserves. The IEA estimates that observed oil stocks fell by
85mb in March with private estimates pointing to a much
larger decline in April. Indeed, the US Strategic Petroleum
Reserves is on track to fall to the lowest level since 1992.
The drawdown in global oil inventories has helped cushion
the global supply shock in Q2, leaving a net supply shortfall
of around 6mb/d. But this is still around 8mbd lower than our

pre-conflict estimates.
There is, however, a critical level which provides a floor to how
much inventories can continue to be drawn down. As a result,
global supply is expected to fall by around 2.5% this year, with
the scope to offset the underlying shortfall through inventories
now limited despite a partial resumption in flows. In 2027, we
expect a more significant recovery in supply as Middle East oil
production and flows return to normal with the UAE expected

to boost production above pre-conflict projections given it is
no longer constrained by OPEC quotas.
On the demand side, meanwhile, we continue to estimate
some demand destruction due to the surge in prices. However,
the conflict has also highlighted the vulnerability of a number
of countries, particularly across Asia, given their greater
dependency on Middle East oil imports and more limited

===== Page 245 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
9
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
MIDDLE EAST
... will keep energy prices higher for longer
We have made only modest revisions to our Japanese LNG
price projections despite global gas supply being highly
exposed to an extended disruption. This largely reflects a
recalibration to recent gas price outcomes, which have not

risen as much as we had expected to date. However, with
no viable route that bypasses the Strait, and damage to
Qatar’s Ras Laffan LNG plant potentially taking up to five
years to fully repair, prices are still expected to remain above
pre-conflict levels through to the end of 2027, with prices
averaging US$13/mmbtu, around US$2 above pre-conflict
levels in Q4 2027.
... with upstream impacts on other prices
Given the prolonged closure, we also expect some further

supply chain pressures, particularly for fertilisers, chemicals,
polymers and metals. However, higher fuel costs are expected
to push freight rates up modestly in the near term. The impact
is still expected to be limited relative to previous shipping
disruptions and is unlikely to constrain supply, leaving freight
as a secondary contributor to supply-side cost pressures, with
energy costs remaining the dominant channel.
Modest impact on economic outlook

Based on our modelling the impact of a more persistent
constraint on energy supplies points to some modest
downward pressure on economic growth in Australia and New
Zealand, alongside higher inflation. However, these estimates
reflect the modelled impact of higher energy and commodity
prices in isolation. Final forecasts incorporate a broader set of
interacting forces, which may offset these effects.
strategic reserves. This reinforces the case for building

resilience against future oil supply shocks.
While the timing of any response remains uncertain and is
unlikely to be even, we include a more decisive, policy driven
push to rebuild reserves from mid-2027, lifting demand across
most advanced and Asian economies by around 0.5%. This is
materially above the historical average pace of reserve builds
and provides some price support in the medium term.
Overall, the revised assumptions point to a more persistent

energy price shock than previously assumed with tighter
demand and supply balances extending into 2027 and beyond.
Energy prices elevated for longer ...
Consequently, we now expect Brent crude oil prices to remain
elevated for longer. Under our revised baseline scenario, we
calibrate our baseline to dated Brent. Dated Brent has been
trading at a premium to spot Brent prices for much of the
conflict. This premium reflects the cost of securing physical

barrels and is expected to unwind only gradually as flows
normalise and inventories stabilise.
Consistent with this, we now expect dated Brent to average
around US$125/bbl in Q2, compared with spot Brent at
around US$110/bbl, implying a an average premium of around
$15/bbl, before narrowing over the coming quarters.
Under our revised base case, prices are expected to decline
more slowly than previously. By end-2026, Brent is forecast at
$95/bbl, $20 above our previous baseline. A wedge persists

into 2027, with Brent averaging around US$68/bbl in Q4 2027.
We have also made allowance for refinery margins to remain
higher for longer. Australian diesel and petrol prices continue
to ease over 2027 but not only remain above pre conflict levels
but are slightly higher at $2.10/L and $1.82/L by the end of
the year than previously expected.

===== Page 246 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
10
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
April was a mixed month with our broadest commodities index
down 1% since our last update. Of course, with the Strait of
Hormuz still effectively closed, crude oil grabbed the headlines
rallying close to 14%. Iron ore also firmed lifting a bit more

than 3%, while lithium gained on renewed electrification
momentum. Copper and aluminium softened and gold is down
more than 3%. With the conflict in the Middle East continuing,
we have revised up our forecasts for crude (US$110/bbl for the
June quarter, US$87/bbl for Dec 2026) and lifted the profile
by around 20% to 30% through 2027 to post a December
quarter average of US$67/bbl. With iron ore continuing to be
supported, our December 2026 forecast is now US$97/t, 15%

higher than our April estimate.
Note all prices in the following text are quarter averages.
Oil prices steady but risks skewed to upside
A fragile ceasefire in the Middle East continues, with a
combination of restricted shipping flows and limited kinetic
escalation capping both oil supply and further price gains. As a
result, Brent futures have held steady in the US$100-120/bbl
range, with dated Brent continuing to trade at a meaningful
premium. Note our analysis places greater weight on these

physical crude prices, reflecting the ongoing tightness in
underlying market conditions. Supply remains constrained
by production shut ins, infrastructure damage and persistent
shipping dislocation, with many vessels continuing to avoid
the Strait of Hormuz. This has resulted in sustained logistical
bottlenecks, with an estimated ~20mb/d of crude flows
through the Strait disrupted. While global inventories provide
some buffer, they represent a finite source of supply, implying

that competition for available barrels is likely to remain
elevated, placing upward pressure on prices.
Our baseline assumes traffic through the Strait of Hormuz
returns to around 10-15% of pre-conflict levels through June,
with a full normalisation of flows not expected until mid-
2027, reflecting ongoing security and insurance constraints.
Accordingly, we now expect Brent prices to average US$110/
bbl in Q2 2026, around 5% above our April forecast, before

easing as geopolitical risks unwind and higher prices induce
demand destruction. Brent is forecast to moderate to an
average around US$87/bbl by Q4 2026, with further easing
through 2028 as supply and shipping conditions normalise.
New US and African supply temper Asian prices
LNG markets remain acutely exposed to the conflict, with an
estimated 300mcm/day – around one fifth of global supply
– disrupted from Qatar and the UAE. Ras Laffan in Qatar, the

Oil prices remain bounded by headlines ...
Justin Smirk
Senior Economist
Luka Belobrajdic
Economist
COMMODITIES

===== Page 247 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
11
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
... with electrification driving lithium demand
COMMODITIES
world’s largest LNG export complex, has remained offline since
early March, while global storage levels were already depleted
exiting the Northern Hemisphere heating season. Asia remains
particularly exposed, with an estimated 80–90% of LNG volumes

transiting the Strait of Hormuz destined for Asian markets, driving
a sharp rise in Japanese LNG prices. However, gains have been
tempered by a combination of ceasefire optimism, demand side
adjustments including fuel switching across asia, and crucially,
new supply from North America and Africa.
Reflecting these offsetting forces, we have revised lower our
expected peak in Japanese LNG prices to an average of US$22.5/
mmbtu in the September quarter, with prices expected to

average above US$20/mmbtu through year end. Given the scale
of infrastructure disruption and the absence of viable alternative
export routes, LNG markets are expected to remain tight, with
prices unlikely to return to pre conflict levels until 2028
This does not mean we have seen the same impact on local
Australian gas prices. This year the market has remained
reasonably well supplied with prices remaining under the
Goverments proposed $12 gigajoule cap. Additionally, the

government is also proposing the 20% of the uncontracted export
gas should be reserved for the local market. With the ongoing
political pressure to tax gas exports we would expect to see the
Australian gas market not repeat the pattern of the Russian gas
crisis with local prices held down due to ample supply.
A softer global outlook caps copper gains
Copper prices have eased modestly into May but remain
elevated, finding a footing above US$13,000/t with concerns

around demand destruction, driven by higher energy costs and
a softer global growth outlook, capping further gains. Despite
this, underlying fundamentals remain supportive. Inventory
drawdowns through late March and into April, reflected in
Shanghai Futures Exchange data, point to a recent stabilisation
in demand, supported by renewed focus on electrification amid
rising energy costs. At the same time, shortages of sulphuric
acid, critical to copper production, is emerging as a constraint,

with around one third of global sulphur supply sourced from
the Gulf. Against this backdrop, we expect copper prices
to test higher levels, with a local peak expected in the
March quarter of 2027 at an average of $13,350/t, before
consolidating. Further growth is expected later in the forecast
period as net zero targets approach, accelerating EV and
renewable deployment, and data centre build outs intensifies.
EV uptake to support lithium
The lithium market has transitioned toward a more balanced

position. Spodumene (6% FOB Australia) prices have
stabilised around the US$2,00-2,500/t range, with recent
gains reflecting a drawdown in inventories. In the near term,
this trend is expected to persist as downstream users maintain
lean inventory positions amid price volatility. Additional
support will come from accelerating EV adoption, particularly
as higher fuel prices and supply insecuriuty, improve relative
economics. Unlike previously, the EV market is now sufficiently

mature for fuel dynamics to meaningfully influence purchasing
decisions as lower cost Chinese EVs gain market share.
Over the medium to long term, lithium demand will continue
to be underpinned by structural electrification trends. EVs
remain the primary demand driver, while growth in battery
energy storage systems is expected to accelerate alongside
expanding renewable generation. The growing role of data
centres is also likely to support demand for storage solutions,

as systems are deployed to relieve transmission constraints
and enable peak shaving. On the supply side, expanding
production, particularly from Australia, is expected to place a
cap on price upside.

===== Page 248 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
12
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
When we released the last edition of Market Outlook in
mid-April, the US dollar DXY index sat at 98.2. Today it is
also at 98.2 and, in the intervening period, the index traded
a 1 point range – the definition of marking time. Participants
have not been short of headlines, rumours and data to

assess. Instead, the sum of available information has been
heightened uncertainty over the immediate and medium-
term outlook, leading participants to refrain from trading.
Assessing the market moves that have occurred and the
information which inspired them, there is evidence to suggest
most participants are waiting for the current crisis to end
so they can pursue opportunities outside the US dollar.
Supporting this view, risk-off moments have resulted in

very limited upside for the US dollar – Project Freedom’s
announcement and the ensuing skirmishes between Iran and
the US in the Strait of Hormuz are a good example of this.
Meanwhile, signs of stability and reports of dialogue have
buoyed equities globally and seen pro-risk currencies test
the upper end of recent ranges against the US dollar – the
Australian dollar is a prime example, having traded up through
USD0.72 in recent days.
Of the DXY constituents, Japan’s yen has led the way.

Authorities’ concern over the cross breaking above JPY160
was followed by multiple rounds of intervention from late-
April, a decision not taken since 2024; along with global
developments, these actions have resulted in a sustained
recovery from an intra-day high of JPY160.7 to near JPY157 (a
near 2.5% appreciation for the yen).
An immense degree of pressure remains on the yen – it is
currently more than 40% below the average of 2018 and
2019, prior to the pandemic. That said, with the Bank of Japan

expected to raise rates in June while the FOMC holds still, and
if concerns over conflict in the Middle East and related energy
supply begin to subside, a sustained appreciation for the yen
against the US dollar and, to a lesser degree, other major
trading partners is probable.
Based on our expectation for a protracted recovery in energy
markets, we look for the yen to slowly appreciate through
2026-2028, USD/JPY declining from JPY157 today to
JPY150 at mid-2027 and JPY142 come mid-2028. A stronger

appreciation is possible if Japanese growth outperforms and/
or the Bank of Japan takes a more hawkish stance. However,
the reality is that Japan is more exposed to imported energy
inflation, affecting real incomes and spending, and arguably
lags major neighbours with respect to technological progess
and efficiency – China, Taiwan and South Korea are all in a
stronger position.
FX markets waiting for clear ...
Elliot Clarke
Head of International Economics

GLOBAL FX

===== Page 249 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
13
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Moreover, investors are increasingly recognising the growth
potential of south-east Asia, in part due to foreign investment
by the aforementioned north-Asian nations. Investment flows
should follow the activity undertaken more than the country
of residence of the main investor, and so support for Asia FX

against the US dollar is likely to spread out across the region.
Of the countries mentioned, we look for China’s Renminbi and
Taiwan’s dollar to show the most persistent strength. USD/
CNY is expected to continue trading down from CNY6.80 to
CNY6.50 in mid-2027, then CNY6.35 by mid-2028. USD/TWD
meanwhile is forecast to fall from TWD31.4 to TWD29.2 in
a year’s time, then TWD28.2 come mid-2028. Opportunity is
also apparent for South Korea’s won and Singapore’s dollar,

although at SGD1.27 the latter cross is already at the lower
end of the historic range versus the US dollar.
For the rest of Asia, economic and industrial development is
expected to win out in time; however, the shadow cast over
energy security by recent developments in the Middle East
and the impact of higher prices on household and businesses’
finances will likely see investors remain focused on risks to
the outlook for the foreseeable future. Countries such as the

Philippines and Indonesia are most exposed, while Vietnam
is arguably best postioned to receive aid from China given its
importance to China’s manfacturing and logistics networks,
and as Chinese firms are already working at scale on
infrastructure projects across Vietnam, with more to come.
Coming back to Europe and the UK, the state of play against
the US dollar is little changed over the past month. Our
views on the region’s outlook are also largely unrevised. As

discussed on page 22, recent communications from the ECB
and Bank of England point to a modest policy tightening in
coming months to guard against inflation risks. However, both
central banks are also keeping a close eye on downside risks
for activity – a greater risk for the UK given labour market
slack was already building ahead of the current conflict.
Participants are likely to take confidence from policy
makers direction and will also expect that, as the drag on

discretionary incomes lifts, activity growth in each jurisdiction
should strengthen. Hence, we look for EUR/USD to appreciate
from USD1.17 today to USD1.21 in mid-2027 and USD1.22
come mid-2028. Sterling is seen appreciating from USD1.36
to USD1.39 then USD1.41 over the two-year forecast horizon.
In closing, it is worth noting that, at least initially, euro,
sterling and yen are most likely to benefit if downside risks for
the US crystalise. In time though, investors are likely to see

greater opportunity in Asia, and capital will be repositioned to
take advantage.
... air to position for growth
GLOBAL FX

===== Page 250 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
14
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
The domestic focus since our last Market Outlook has
remained on gathering up-to-date information on how the
New Zealand economy is being impacted by the Middle East
conflict and assessing the RBNZ’s likely response. To date
the main impact continues to be felt through higher prices

for refined oil products. The supply of fuel has continued
uninterrupted, and the Government has taken steps to
modestly boost resilience by funding a roughly one-third
increase in in-country diesel storage. This resilience will be
tested if the Middle East conflict continues.
Unsurprisingly, both business and consumer confidence have
taken a significant hit with surveys for April confirming the
decline in optimism that had been evident in late responses

back in March. For example, the ANZ’s headline business
confidence index slumped to –10.6 in April from 32.5 in March
– the first negative reading since 2023. Encouragingly, firms
remain more optimistic about their own situation. Even so, the
net proportion of firms expecting their own trading activity to
rise over the next year halved to 19.6% in April. Uncertainty is
curbing firms’ willingness to expand, with net hiring intentions
turning modestly negative in April and net investment

intentions sliding to barely positive levels. This is consistent
with the picture we expected to see when we downgraded
our near-term outlook for growth in late March. However, we
are reviewing our forecasts considering prospects for a slower
resolution of the Middle East conflict than previously assumed.
Meanwhile, the first-round impact of high energy prices is
beginning to pass through the economy. A small portion of
the direct impact of the Middle East conflict came through in

the March quarter CPI, with a 3.5% lift in petrol prices helping
to leave annual headline inflation stable at a higher-than-
Early impacts of Iran war as expected ...
expected 3.1%yr. Measures of core inflation generally nudged
lower, with the RBNZ’s sectoral factor model estimate edging
down to 2.7%yr, the 30% trimmed mean falling to 2.3%yr
and the weighted median edging down to 1.6%yr. But the full
brunt of the energy shock will begin to be felt in the current

quarter. Sharply higher fuel prices are leaving many firms
operating in the transport industry with little choice but to
raise prices, mainly through surcharges, to help defray their
increased costs. We currently expect annual headline inflation
will rise to around 4.5%. How long it remains at such elevated
levels – or indeed whether this is even the peak – will depend
mostly on the path that the Middle East conflict takes.
Appropriately, the RBNZ remains vigilant for any signs that a

higher near-term trajectory for inflation will raise the outlook
for inflation over the medium term. Recently, Governor Breman
participated in a regional engagement event in which she
largely reiterated the key messages conveyed at the RBNZ’s
8 April OCR Review. But she also commented on the recent
release of the Q1 CPI report. While noting that headline
inflation was slightly higher than expected, she added that “…
measures of core inflation, which look through this volatility,

have remained stable within the target band.”
Looking ahead, Breman said “…the Reserve Bank remains
focused on balancing inflation control with supporting
economic recovery.” But she also reiterated that “…monetary
policy can and should ensure that a temporary increase in
inflation does not turn into enduring inflationary pressures.”
In particular, she emphasised that the Bank was focused on
the prospect of second-round inflation effects, specifically

transmitted through the labour market, rather than the first-
round impact of higher fuel prices. She also emphasised that
the Bank will pay close attention to measures of medium-term
inflation expectations. Next week the RBNZ will release the
first of three different measures of inflation expectations,
which mostly covers the views of professional economists and
a small number of people from the business sector.
At present, the market is pricing just under a 30% chance of

a 25bp rate hike at the RBNZ’s 27 May meeting. Westpac
continues to forecast a first lift in the OCR at the 2 September
Monetary Policy Statement meeting, but we do not rule out
the possibility that the RBNZ acts sooner. In this environment,
we expect the NZ dollar to remain stable in the near-term.
Thereafter, as the RBNZ tightening cycle begins and the US
dollar continues its weakening trend, the NZ dollar is expected
to gradually appreciate (including regaining some of the

ground lost this year against the Australian dollar).
NEW ZEALAND
Darren Gibbs
Senior Economist

===== Page 251 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
15
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
While it is too early for the Middle East conflict to have
impacted the labour market, data released this week provided
an important update on conditions as New Zealand faced into
this shock. According to the household survey, employment
rose 0.2% during the quarter to be 0.4% higher than a year

earlier. Measures of hours worked from both the household
and employer surveys grew slightly more quickly, consistent
with our view that the economy grew solidly in during the
quarter (we currently estimate GDP growth of 0.8%qtr).
Somewhat unusually, the labour force participation rate
nudged lower despite the rise in employment. As a result,
the unemployment rate edged down to 5.3% despite slightly
firmer growth in the working age population. Labour cost

growth was subdued as expected, with annual growth
in private sector wages slowing to 3.2% (2.0% once
… with confidence down and prices up
NEW ZEALAND
productivity-related increases are excluded, as published in
the headline index). These results were much as the RBNZ
had forecast in the February Monetary Policy Statement
(employment growth was just slightly weaker) and so are
unlikely to have much impact on the RBNZ’s deliberations.
Finally, the Middle East conflict is also set to impact the

Government’s financial accounts. Prior to the war, the
Government was on course to announce an upgrade to the
fiscal outlook at Budget 2026 (released on 28 May). But higher
than previously forecast inflation and interest rates are set
to raise the cost of welfare spending and debt financing, and
weaker economic growth will undermine previous forecasts
of tax revenue. Therefore, it now seems likely that Budget
2026 will reveal a modest lift in the Government’s borrowing

requirement, even though higher inflation will help lift some
types of tax revenue given the lack of indexation of the tax
system. We will publish our Budget preview following next
week’s release of government spending and tax data for March.
Reflecting the weaker fiscal outlook, last month Moody’s
joined Fitch in attaching a negative outlook to New Zealand’s
sovereign credit rating. Moody’s model assigns a rating one
notch lower than the current final Aaa rating, with the final

rating reflecting a discretionary uplift based on an assessment
that the recent weakening of fiscal metrics would improve
over time (an uplift based on New Zealand’s past success in
correcting fiscal imbalances). The move to a negative outlook
clearly indicates that Moody’s are considering removing that
uplift due to the ongoing delay in returning to books back
to surplus. Avoiding a downgrade sometime next year will
require the Government to demonstrate its commitment to

fiscal consolidation.
2025 2026
Monthly data May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr
REINZ house sales %mth –2.1 –3.9 2.6 –2.7 –1.5 6.3 0.4 1.0 –5.2 5.2 –4.4 –
Residential building consents %mth 10.8 –5.2 6.3 5.2 7.5 –0.7 2.7 –4.4 1.8 2.7 –1.2 –
Electronic card transactions %mth –0.1 0.5 0.2 0.6 –0.4 0.3 1.3 –0.1 –1.0 1.4 0.7 –
Private sector credit %yr 3.0 3.2 3.5 3.8 4.2 4.6 4.4 4.6 4.6 4.7 4.9 –
Commodity prices %mth 1.9 –2.4 –1.8 0.7 –1.1 –0.3 –1.6 –2.1 2.0 4.2 4.2 –0.8

Trade balance $mn –256 –527 –371 –110 269 –248 –352 –183 –299 –863 –200 –
Quarterly data Q4:23 Q1:24 Q2:24 Q3:24 Q4:24 Q1:25 Q2:25 Q3:25 Q4:25 Q1:26
Westpac McDermott Miller Consumer Confidence 88.9 93.2 82.2 90.8 97.5 89.2 91.2 90.9 96.5 94.7
Quarterly Survey of Business Opinion 9 –27 –25 –29 –27 –22 –21 –15 –3 0
Unemployment rate % 4.0 4.4 4.7 4.9 5.1 5.1 5.2 5.3 5.4 5.3
CPI %yr 4.7 4.0 3.3 2.2 2.2 2.5 2.7 3.0 3.1 3.1
Real GDP %yr 2.2 1.8 1.1 0.5 –0.3 –0.9 –1.1 –0.6 0.2 –

Current account balance % of GDP –6.3 –5.7 –5.5 –5.2 –4.7 –4.2 –3.7 –3.5 –3.7 –
Sources: Government agencies, Bloomberg, Macrobond, Westpac Economics. Some data omitted from certain series due to Lunar New Year distortions. *4qma

===== Page 252 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
16
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
CHINA
This month, President Xi and President Trump are due to
meet to discuss China/US relations, developments in the
global economy and, barring a resolution before, likely the
conflict in the Middle East. This meeting will not materially
change the status quo, being one of a number of in-person

meetings planned for this year, but it will guide on the
opportunities and risks ahead. Available data points to a
stark difference in perspective and outlooks.
As the US continues to focus on controlling trade across
its borders in pursuit of greater domestic investment and
production, China has instead enticed investment at home
by encouraging foreign trade. To date in 2026, China’s trade
surplus has averaged US$88bn per month after holding
around US$99bn in 2025, both outcomes roughly three times

the 2018-19 average of US$32bn.
The US trade position has, in contrast, deteriorated from an
average deficit of US$47bn per month in 2018-19 to US$73bn
in 2025-26. Admittedly, this US data pre-dates the surge in
energy exports seen through April and May, but China has
also temporarily pulled back on their supply of energy goods
to other nations, reducing export revenue.
With future export opportunities remaining the focus, Chinese
fixed asset investment continues to grow after rapidly scaling

through 2020-2025. Of particular note, transport and storage-
related infrastructure spending surged in early-2026, and
utilities investment has continued to compound around 9%ytd.
Within the manufacturing sector, stronger demand for green
technology goods and refined energy products is likely to elicit
a sustained upturn in capital expenditure through 2026, with
the key investment sub-categories of electrical machinery,
automobiles (EVs) and chemicals all showing evidence of

stabilisation in Q1 and global demand receiving strong support
from elevated energy prices and open-ended uncertainty over
Middle East supply.
In contrast, in the US, investment remains highly concentrated
in AI-related infrastructure and conversely is weak in areas
related to trade and the domestic real economy. Lingering
uncertainty related to tariffs and elevated long-term yields
are also at play, in addition to businesses’ focus on technology

– US for-profit entities need greater surety over expected
returns than China’s state-owned and state-linked entities.
An additional element to consider is the benefit China may
receive from the US’ souring relationship with the world,
particularly Europe. This month, President Trump has
continued to spar with European leaders, threatening to pull
US troops from Germany and other major nations in the region.
Playing comparative ...
Elliot Clarke
Head of International Economics

===== Page 253 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
17
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
He then announced a 10 percentage point increase in the US
tariff rate for European cars and trucks, purportedly because
the EU had failed to live up to their side of the agreed trade
deal – without providing specific evidence.
The EU labelled the US as an “unreliable” trading partner

and vowed to respond. Ahead of this development, Chinese
authorities were acting to strengthen ties with European
leaders, publically via a number of high-profile visits from
European leaders, and behind the scenes by encouraging
Chinese firms to invest in Europe and vice versa. There is
strong evidence of a high-integrated, mutually-beneficial trade
relationship taking shape between China and Europe.
As we have highlighted frequently, Chinese investment is

not concentrated in one jurisdiction, however. Instead, it
has spread widely across Asia, Latin America and Africa
(in addition to Europe), targeting not only the production of
finished goods, but also the production of supply inputs – from
raw materials to high-tech components.
While not their initial intent, over time this project will justify
a material increase in the use of the Renminbi in trade, and
will also strengthen demand for real and financial investment

within China.
This will see greater depth and liquidity for China’s onshore
financial markets, as well as scope to offer global investments
to Chinese investors through the issuance of Renminbi
denominated debt and equity instruments. The larger these
flows become, the greater the opportunity for Chinese banks
and financial entities to facilitate flows, provide capital and
manage risk, both on and, more importantly, offshore.
Overall then, in trade, investment and, with time, financial

flows, China has a considerable long-term competitive
advantage that is set to benefit their real economy and
national wealth.
... advantage
2025 2026
Monthly data %yr May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr
Headline CPI %yr –0.1 0.1 0.0 –0.4 –0.3 0.2 0.7 0.8 0.2 1.3 1.0 –
M2 money supply %yr 7.9 8.3 8.8 8.8 8.4 8.2 8.0 8.5 9.0 9.0 8.5 –
Manufacturing PMI (official) 49.5 49.7 49.3 49.4 49.8 49.0 49.2 50.1 49.3 49.0 50.4 50.3
Fixed asset investment ytd %yr 3.7 2.8 1.6 0.5 –0.5 –1.7 –2.6 –3.8 –3.8 1.8 1.7 –

Industrial production %yr 5.8 6.8 5.7 5.2 6.5 4.9 4.8 5.2 5.2 6.3 5.7 –
Exports %yr 4.6 5.7 7.0 4.2 8.2 –1.3 5.8 6.5 10.0 39.6 2.5 –
Imports %yr –3.3 1.3 4.2 1.6 7.8 1.4 2.0 5.7 25.7 13.9 27.8 –
Trade balance USDbn 102.7 113.9 97.4 101.2 89.2 88.9 111.1 113.7 122.4 90.8 51.1 –
Quarterly data Dec–24 Mar–25 Jun–25 Sep–25 Dec–25 Mar–26
Real GDP %yr 5.4 5.4 5.2 4.8 4.5 5.0
Nominal GDP %yr 4.6 4.6 3.9 3.7 3.9 4.9
Sources: Government agencies, Bloomberg, Macrobond, Westpac Economics. Some data omitted from certain series due to Lunar New Year distortions. *4qma

CHINA

===== Page 254 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
18
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
The US has exhibited both strength and frailty over the past
month. Backed by earnings beats and despite a new cycle high
for Brent oil, its equity markets have rebounded strongly to
record levels. At the same time though, growth in consumer
demand has fallen below trend and housing investment is

contracting. In many respects, the outlook is highly uncertain.
Beginning with the positives. The confidence financial markets
have shown amid open-ended uncertainty for energy supply,
the pass-through to consumer inflation and elevated yields is
jarring. Participants’ responses to recent earnings results and
news of the build out of AI infrastructure helps to make sense
of these outcomes, however.
Simply, there is a dominant belief that the US’ real economy

can be protected from the worst of the supply disruptions by
its domestic energy production and refining capacity. And, both
now and in the long run, is at the forefront of productivity and
profitability enhancement through technology. The surge in
energy exports as well as intangibles and equipment investment
supports both notions. The strength of these investment
sub-types arguably also warrants expectations of sustainable
income gains and an ability to, in time, contain inflationary

pressures, providing scope for persistent, robust returns.
We do not doubt the strength of tech-related investment or
the capacity it is creating. But we see a need to caution on
the sustainability of its contribution to GDP growth because
momentum tends to moderate as an industry matures, and
owing to the concern being shown by investors over the
financing terms and lifecycle of assets within the sector. We
also believe it is important to recognise that, outside of AI

infrastructure and related equipment investment, business
investment is soft. Indeed, at circa 6%yr, annual growth in
total business investment is broadly in line with the historic
depreciation rate for the capital stock, implying no net increase
in functional capacity. In the public sector, while activity
rebounded in Q1 2026 following Q4’s shutdown, the level of
spending is unchanged over the year.
At the same time, the pulse of consumer demand has

continued to soften, from an above-trend annualised
pace of 3.2% through 2023 and 2024 to a sub-par 2.1%
annualised in 2025, and now 1.6% in Q1 2026. This is
despite the unemployment rate remaining consistent with
full employment, the drag on real discretionary income fading
and as real wealth accrues. Also affected by elevated term
interest rates, housing construction continues to contract to
now be down more than 18% since early 2021, even with solid

population growth.
Economic opportunity ...
Elliot Clarke
Head of International Economics
UNITED STATES

===== Page 255 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
19
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
It is extremely difficult, if not impossible, for an economy
to grow at or above trend when sectors representing 72%
of total activity are experiencing a sub-par performance, or
contracting outright. The import component of the above
activity is an additional headwind for GDP growth which is

unlikely to subside, even if President Trump finds a way to
permanently impose tariffs and entice new investment.
Our take on the above positives and negatives is that the
US economy finds itself with the capacity to grow at or
near trend through 2026-2028, but momentum is likely to
be concentrated amongst businesses and higher-income
households, with volatile outcomes around a broadly flat
trend anticipated in other sectors. Meanwhile, limits on

capacity outside of technology is, all else equal, likely to hold
inflation consistently above target. As we have emphasised
repeatedly, the adoption of AI and related technology offers
the opportunity for greater productivity from labour. But limits
on migration are likely to create offsetting wage pressures and
frictions in production.
For US monetary policy, known risks are therefore set to
remain skewed towards misses on inflation versus a material

increase in labour market slack. The market is likely to price in
at least a chance of a rate hike over the forecast period, and
term interest rates a lasting hawkish tilt. For the long end of
the yield curve, the effect of higher inflation expectations will
be magnified by the implications for Government servicing
costs – a higher share of expenditure going to interest
payments, increasing the stock of debt and reducing the
Government’s capacity to invest for growth. In our view,

this uptrend for interest rates is unlikely to boost the US
dollar, being paired with modest US economic growth and
comparably favourable opportunities in other parts of the
world, for businesses and investors alike.
... narrow and brittle
2025 2026
Monthly data Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr May
PCE deflator %yr 2.5 2.6 2.6 2.7 2.8 2.7 2.8 2.9 2.9 2.8 3.5 –
Unemployment rate % 4.3 4.1 4.3 4.3 4.4 4.4 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.4 4.3 –
Nonfarm payrolls chg ‘000 13 –20 64 –70 76 –140 41 –17 160 –133 178 –

House prices* %yr 2.8 2.1 1.8 1.6 1.4 1.3 1.5 1.5 1.2 0.9 – –
Durables orders core 3mth %saar 2.6 –0.9 8.4 4.0 10.9 9.8 9.8 8.9 5.5 8.5 20.0 –
ISM manufacturing composite 48.6 49.0 48.4 48.9 48.9 48.8 48.0 47.9 52.6 52.4 52.7 52.7
ISM non–manufacturing composite 50.2 50.8 50.5 51.9 50.4 52.0 52.4 53.8 53.8 56.1 54.0 53.6
Personal spending 3mth %saar 4.7 3.6 5.1 7.3 6.6 5.5 4.5 4.7 4.5 5.9 8.0 –
UoM Consumer Sentiment 52.2 60.7 61.7 58.2 55.1 53.6 51.0 52.9 56.4 56.6 53.3 49.8

Trade balance USDbn –70.6 –57.6 –74.2 –56.0 –49.2 –31.1 –56.0 –72.9 –54.7 –57.8 –60.3 –
Quarterly data Mar–25 Jun–25 Sep–25 Dec–25 Mar–26 Jun–26(f)
Real GDP % saar –0.6 3.8 4.4 0.5 2.0 1.6
Current account USDbn –438.3 –247.8 –239.1 –190.7 – –
Sources: Government agencies, Bloomberg, *S&P Case–Shiller 20–city measure.
UNITED STATES

===== Page 256 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
20
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
A coordinated policy response needed to ...
Illiana Jain
Economist
JAPAN
At the heart of it, the Bank of Japan’s (BoJ) policy board
has one objective: to restore the effectiveness of the
policy rate lever while continuing to support demand-pull
inflation. If these two are in opposition to one another, the

BoJ will choose to halt the hiking cycle to support domestic
demand. The cost of not doing so was laid bare in 2014,
when a consumption tax hike from 5% to 8% saw private
consumption contract by nearly 19% annualised in Q2,
breaking the reflationary momentum Abenomics had built.
Today, domestic data warrants another hike. Three consecutive
years of 5%+ Shunto wage results, corporate profit margins at
60-year highs, and a broadening of wage increases to SMEs all

point to a virtuous cycle taking hold. The Middle East conflict
is a complication, however, threatening to turn demand-pull
inflation into cost-push, squeezing the demand growth the BoJ
is trying to nurture.
Domestically driven inflation starts with healthy wage growth.
FY2026’s (ending March 2027) Rengo wage outcome came in
at 5.08%, just below last year’s 5.25%. Major companies like
Toyota and Suzuki reportedly met union demands in full. The
unions were also successful in encouraging SMEs to increase

wages by 4.84%. The SMEs wage commitment in particular
reflects the difficulty of finding labour and Japan’s limited
spare capacity. In their press conference, Rengo affirmed
that recent results suggest robust wage rises are becoming
entrenched across the economy. Structural factors like an
ageing population and the expansion of the services sector
have also helped maintain upward pressure on wage growth.
Strong corporate profitability has also been important,

offering scope for business to deliver.
While the BoJ’s most recent Outlook highlighted risks to
corporate profitability, it is worth noting that this measure
remains near historic highs. The operating profits-to-sales
ratio is currently 6.01%, a high back to the 1960s. In contrast
to the 1960’s, the strength has also been broad-based across
manufacturers and service providers.
Primary risks to Japan’s economy are instead found offshore.
In particular, cost-push inflation from energy and a weak yen

risks a squeeze in real incomes and consequently demand.
Authorities showed their concern this month, USD/JPY’s rise
above JPY160 in late April triggering the first intervention since
mid-2024. Several instances of intervention through early-
May has helped USD/JPY remain below JPY160. Although, it
is worth noting that, per IMF rules, the MoF can only intervene
in the FX markets twice more over the next six months for the
yen to be considered a free-floating currency. This highlights

the predicament facing Japanese officials. The yen is

===== Page 257 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
21
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
... ensure the policy lever is returned to the BoJ
ASIA
weak due to structural factors like offshore investment by
Japanese manufacturers and adverse rate differentials with
other developed markets. Intervention can only be effective
temporarily and at the margin. Policy makers must therefore

continue to deliver on rates and economic growth.
At its April meeting, the policy board decided to keep rates
steady in a 6-3 vote, with the three dissenters (Tamura,
Nakagawa and Takata) voting to hike. The accompanying
statement put the Middle East conflict front and centre. In
their central scenario, they downgraded the GDP forecast to
below 1.0% for the projection period and lifted the inflation
profile. Higher oil prices are now more than offsetting the

deceleration in food prices – core inflation for FY26 was
revised up from 1.9% to 2.8%. While domestic conditions still
indicate the economy can sustain another step up in rates, the
BoJ remains cautious about the impact of external risks on
domestic demand. Highlighting this, Governor Ueda placed
a condition on the Board’s hawkish forward guidance, noting
rates could only rise if downside risks remain limited.
On the fiscal side, Prime Minister Takaichi’s budget for FY26

should deliver near-term support for growth. The budget
passed in early April with a 6.2% increase in spending
versus FY25. Key items included spending on defence and
investment into high value sectors such as semiconductors
to aid economic growth over the medium term. Higher social
spending and cost-of-living relief measures should also help
cushion the impact of higher energy prices and second-round
pass-through. More importantly, the shift from targeting the

primary balance surplus – which constrains annual spending
regardless of the cycle – to a medium-term debt-to-GDP ratio
target allows greater flexibility to front-load spending when
necessary while maintaining fiscal discipline.
All told, enduring strength in the domestic economy thanks to
wage increases, a vibrant corporate sector, and a supportive
fiscal backdrop should give the BoJ sufficient confidence to
move again in June. The 6-3 vote split and Governor Ueda’s

conditional guidance suggests the Board is already leaning in
that direction.
To confirm the appropriateness of the decision between
now and then, greater clarity is necessary on two fronts: the
trajectory of the Middle East conflict and, more concretely, the
Financial Statements data due in early June, with the latter to
show how firms are absorbing higher input costs and whether
margins are holding up. If profitability shows resilience and
downside risks to growth remain contained, the case for a

25bp hike to 1.0% is straightforward. Beyond June, however,
an extended pause is likely while the lagged impact of global
developments and the significant change in the stance of
policy over the past year is assessed.

===== Page 258 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
22
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
While the RBA continued tightening monetary policy this
month, major central banks in Europe maintained a more
balanced stance. But with a definitive end to the Middle
East conflict still out of sight, both the European Central
Bank and the Bank of England are looking increasingly likely

to hike sooner than later.
At the end-of-April meeting, the ECB Governing Council
opted to maintain its current policy stance and largely met
expectations with their tone. The uncertainty stemming from
the Middle East conflict remains the primary concern, the
monetary policy statement reiterating that the implications
for the euro area economy and, consequently, monetary policy
will depend on both the intensity and duration of the war.
Indeed, the ECB believe “upside risks to inflation and

downside risks to growth have [both] intensified”. Arguably,
the lack of a clear tilt in the distribution of risks warranted
policymakers wait-and-see approach, with the decision to hold
unanimous.
The coming months will provide evidence of second-round
effects, allowing for a clearer assessment. The next meeting
in June will also incorporate a refreshed set of forecasts and
scenarios to provide perspective.
In its previous meeting in March, the ECB presented two

downside scenarios alongside its baseline. In her speech
in Berlin two weeks before the April meeting, President
Lagarde implied the conflict’s dynamics and energy prices had
deteriorated relative to their baseline view, but were not yet
aligned with the adverse scenario.
Following the ECB’s April meeting, President Lagarde seemed
reluctant to discuss the details of the adverse scenarios, but
again stressed that conditions have diverged from March’s

baseline. She noted that the upcoming six weeks “will be
the right time” to assess the economy “in order to make an
informed decision” in June. Her comments appeared carefully
chosen to signal an openness to a rate increase at the next
meeting, if data and assessed risks warrant it. Notably, a rate
hike was discussed by the Governing Council as a policy option
for the April decision. Therefore, barring any major changes
in the dynamics of the Middle East conflict, we continue to

believe that a 25bp policy rate hike is the most probable
outcome at the June meeting.
In the UK meanwhile, with BoE Governor Bailey having
recently pushed back against market expectations for
aggressive policy tightening, participants anticipated the April
meeting would conclude without drama.
Keep calm ...
Mantas Vanagas
Senior Economist
EUROPE & UKEUROPE & UK

===== Page 259 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
23
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
That proved to be the case, with the majority of the eight
committee members voting to keep the policy rate at 3.75%.
Chief Economist Huw Pill was the sole dissenter, voting for a
hike to 4.00%, preferring “a prompt but modest hike in Bank
Rate” to contain the risk of second-round inflationary effects.

The policy statement maintained a hawkish bias, emphasising
the impact of the energy price shock – both its scale and
duration – on UK inflation as well as the Committee’s
readiness to act to ensure inflation returns sustainably to the
2% target in the medium term. Committee members also
showed considerable concern over activity growth, however. If
it remains sub-par, underlying inflationary pressures may ease
over time. Loose conditions in the labour market were also

called out given slack was building before the conflict began.
Risks to inflation were illustrated using three scenarios,
differentiated primarily by oil and gas price assumptions and
the persistence of second-round effects.
In the first two scenarios, the Brent oil price averages US$108
in Q2 2026 and then decreases at different speeds. The
aggregate result is headline inflation above 3.5%yr this
year, but it abates through 2027. Importantly, the Governor

emphasised that, if the economy evolves in line with these
scenarios, further policy tightening may not be required as
financial conditions have already been affected by the removal
of circa 50bps of easing priced before tensions flared.
The committee judged that the most severe scenario – where
Brent averages US$127 this quarter and remains above
US$100 well into 2028 leaving inflation as high as 6.2%yr
in 2027 – would instead require “a forceful tightening in

monetary policy”. The BoE published policy rules suggest
that Bank Rate might need to go as high as 5.0% in these
circumstances.
Overall, the MPC communication suggest Bank Rate hikes this
year are far from guaranteed, with the current “active hold”
approach potentially sufficient to bring inflation to target.
Though, with Brent oil peaking at US$126 on the day the MPC
met, and holding above US$100 since, conditions are clealy
volatile and inflation risks acute. The persistence of inflation

and slowly eroding stockpiles of energy products globally may
be too great a risk for the MPC to ignore.
As such, we maintain our base case for a Bank Rate hike at the
next policy meeting in June, with further tightening possible
in Q3 if price uncertainty intensifies. Note though, downside
risks to the labour market and economic activity are unlikely to
improve, and so the Bank of England may instead attempt to
look through current price dynamics, holding fire on rates. Any

rate hikes in 2026 are also likely to be reversed in 2027.
... and trust in guidance’s effect
EUROPE & UK

===== Page 260 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
24
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FINANCIAL FORECASTS
Australia
Interest rate forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Cash 4.35 4.35 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.60 4.35
90 Day BBSW 4.44 4.55 4.90 4.90 4.95 4.95 4.95 4.80 4.55 4.30

3 Year Swap 4.64 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
3 Year Bond 4.63 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
10 Year Bond 4.96 5.00 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.00 4.95 4.90 4.90
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 57 65 65 60 55 50 40 30 20 15
Currency forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
AUD vs
USD 0.7203 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.73
JPY 113.02 113 112 112 111 111 110 108 105 104

EUR 0.6141 0.61 0.61 0.61 0.61 0.61 0.61 0.61 0.60 0.60
NZD 1.2139 1.22 1.22 1.18 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.10
CAD 0.9840 0.99 0.98 0.98 0.98 0.99 0.98 0.98 0.96 0.95
GBP 0.5315 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.52 0.52 0.52
CHF 0.5623 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55
DKK 4.5890 4.56 4.56 4.58 4.55 4.57 4.53 4.53 4.49 4.49
SEK 6.6854 6.64 6.64 6.68 6.62 6.66 6.60 6.60 6.54 6.54
NOK 6.7018 6.66 6.66 6.69 6.64 6.67 6.62 6.62 6.56 6.56
ZAR 11.86 11.9 11.9 11.9 11.9 12.0 12.0 12.0 12.1 12.1

SGD 0.9144 0.91 0.91 0.92 0.92 0.93 0.93 0.93 0.92 0.92
HKD 5.6424 5.62 5.61 5.68 5.66 5.74 5.74 5.74 5.66 5.66
PHP 43.87 42.5 42.1 42.3 42.0 42.2 41.4 40.7 39.4 39.4
THB 23.27 22.8 22.6 22.8 22.6 22.8 22.6 22.3 22.0 22.0
MYR 2.8213 2.84 2.84 2.85 2.85 2.85 2.85 2.85 2.77 2.77
CNY 4.9193 4.90 4.86 4.89 4.82 4.81 4.77 4.74 4.64 4.64
IDR 12485 12240 12096 12118 12045 12136 12062 11988 11680 11680
TWD 22.62 22.5 22.1 22.0 21.7 21.6 21.2 21.0 20.6 20.6

KRW 1053 1058 1051 1051 1037 1036 1021 1006 978 978
INR 68.41 67.0 65.5 65.7 65.0 65.9 65.1 65.1 63.5 63.5

===== Page 261 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
25
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Australia
Activity forecasts
2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
%qtr / %yr end Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
Household consumption 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.0 0.2 0.4 0.5 0.5 2.4 1.2 2.1 3.3
Dwelling investment 2.0 0.6 1.4 1.3 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.8 5.5 4.7 3.2 5.5

Business investment * 3.8 0.5 0.9 0.3 0.4 0.3 0.3 0.4 4.4 1.8 2.0 3.5
Private demand * 1.3 0.4 0.7 0.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5 3.2 1.7 2.2 3.5
Public demand * 1.3 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.5 0.5 0.6 0.6 2.1 2.5 2.4 2.6
Domestic demand 1.3 0.5 0.8 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 2.9 1.9 2.3 3.3
Stock contribution –0.5 0.4 –0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 –0.1 0.1 –0.2 –0.1 0.1
GNE 0.8 0.9 0.6 0.4 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5 3.0 1.8 2.2 3.3
Exports 1.4 1.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.7 5.2 1.6 2.5 2.4
Imports 2.0 1.8 1.0 1.2 1.3 1.4 1.2 1.2 6.7 4.9 5.1 4.5

Net exports contribution –0.1 –0.1 –0.1 –0.2 –0.2 –0.2 –0.1 –0.1 –0.3 –0.8 –0.6 –0.5
Real GDP %qtr / %yr avg 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4 2.0 1.8 1.2 2.4
%yr end 2.1 2.6 2.6 1.9 1.6 1.0 0.9 1.1 2.6 1.0 1.6 2.8
Nominal GDP %qtr / %yr avg 1.9 1.8 3.0 1.5 1.6 0.5 0.6 0.7 4.7 7.8 3.4 0.0
%yr end 5.4 6.0 7.7 8.5 8.2 6.8 4.3 3.5 6.0 6.8 3.1 0.0
Real household disp. income 0.8 1.0 –0.6 –0.8 0.0 0.2 0.4 1.0 3.7 –1.2 2.3 3.4
Other macroeconomic variables

2025 2026 2027 Calendar years
% change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
Employment %qtr ** 0.2 0.2 0.7 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.4 0.5 – – – –
%yr end ** 1.4 1.1 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.3 1.1 1.2 1.1 1.3 1.7 2.2
Unemployment rate % ** 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.4 4.6 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.3 4.9 4.9 4.5
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8 – – – –
%yr end 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.2 3.0 3.4
Headline CPI %qtr 1.3 0.6 1.4 1.5 1.4 0.5 0.6 0.6 – – – –

%yr end 3.2 3.6 4.1 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.1 3.2 3.6 4.9 2.5 2.2
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr 1.0 0.9 0.8 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7 – – – –
%yr end 3.0 3.4 3.5 3.9 4.0 4.0 4.0 3.6 3.4 4.0 3.0 2.4
Current account $bn, qtr –18.3 –21.1 –18.9 –20.5 –23.3 –27.1 –29.7 –31.1 – – – –
% of GDP –2.6 –2.9 –2.5 –2.7 –3.0 –3.5 –3.9 –4.0 –2.6 –3.5 –4.2 –4.0
Terms of trade %yr avg –3.3 –2.3 0.0 2.0 3.1 4.0 1.8 –0.4 –2.3 4.0 –4.0 –2.5
Population %yr end 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.6 1.5 1.4 1.4

Calendar year changes are annual through–the–year percentage changes unless otherwise specified.
* Business investment, private and public demand are adjusted to exclude the effect of private sector purchases of public sector assets. ** Quarter–averages.
ECONOMIC FORECASTS
Macroeconomic variables – recent history
2025 2026
Monthly data May Jun Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr
CPI %yr 2.1 1.9 3.0 3.2 3.6 3.8 3.4 3.8 3.8 3.7 4.6 –
Employment '000 chg –5.9 –5.0 35.2 –13.7 11.2 34.2 –34.6 64.3 25.6 49.7 17.9 –

Unemployment rate % 4.1 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.5 4.3 4.3 4.1 4.1 4.3 4.3 –
Westpac–MI Consumer Sentiment 92.1 92.6 93.1 98.5 95.4 92.1 103.8 94.5 92.9 90.5 91.6 80.2
Household spending %mth 1.1 0.3 0.4 0.0 0.3 1.4 1.0 –0.5 0.2 0.3 1.6 –
Dwelling approvals %mth 3.4 13.1 –8.1 –4.3 11.7 –6.8 15.2 –14.1 –6.9 31.0 –10.5 –
Private sector credit %mth 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.7 0.8 0.5 0.6 0.7 –
Trade in goods balance AUDbn 1.7 4.7 6.3 0.9 3.4 4.5 2.2 3.2 2.1 5.0 –1.8 –

===== Page 262 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
26
WESTPAC ECONOMICS26
FORECASTS
New Zealand
Interest rate forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Cash 2.25 2.25 2.50 3.00 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.25 4.25
90 Day Bill 2.63 2.50 2.95 3.40 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.45 4.45 4.45
2 Year Swap 3.55 3.75 4.05 4.30 4.40 4.40 4.40 4.35 4.30 4.25

10 Year Bond 4.67 4.85 4.95 5.00 5.05 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10 5.10
10 Year Spread to US 28 50 55 55 55 55 50 45 40 35
10 Year Spread to Aust -29 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20 20
Sources: Bloomberg, Westpac Economics.
Currency forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun-26 Sep-26 Dec-26 Mar-27 Jun-27 Sep-27 Dec-27 Mar-28 Jun-28
NZD vs
USD 0.5934 0.59 0.59 0.62 0.64 0.66 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67
JPY 93.11 93 92 95 97 99 99 98 96 95
EUR 0.5059 0.50 0.50 0.52 0.53 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55 0.55

AUD 0.8238 0.82 0.82 0.85 0.87 0.89 0.90 0.91 0.91 0.91
CAD 0.8107 0.81 0.80 0.83 0.85 0.88 0.89 0.88 0.87 0.87
GBP 0.4379 0.44 0.43 0.45 0.46 0.47 0.48 0.48 0.47 0.47
CNY 4.0413 4.01 3.98 4.15 4.21 4.29 4.31 4.29 4.23 4.23
Sources: Bloomberg, Westpac Economics.
Activity forecasts
2025 2026 2027  Calendar years
% change Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
Private consumption 0.1 –0.1 0.5 –0.6 0.3 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.4 0.6 4.7 4.3
Government consumption 1.4 2.2 –1.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.3 2.4 1.7 1.4 2.2

Residential investment 1.1 –0.1 1.5 1.0 1.0 1.0 2.0 3.0 –6.0 2.7 8.3 10.5
Business investment 2.9 –3.1 3.7 –0.3 1.6 2.2 2.5 2.0 0.4 3.6 7.3 4.0
Stocks (ppt contribution) –0.5 0.8 0.3 –0.3 0.0 –0.1 0.2 0.0 –0.1 0.6 0.0 –0.1
GNE 0.6 0.5 1.1 –0.6 0.6 1.2 1.6 1.3 0.8 2.1 4.7 4.0
Exports 3.0 0.1 0.5 –0.3 –0.4 0.2 1.0 1.1 2.7 2.4 2.1 2.7
Imports 2.3 1.0 2.1 –1.1 0.1 1.2 1.8 2.7 3.4 2.8 6.3 5.2
GDP (production) 0.9 0.2 0.8 –0.4 0.5 1.9 2.5 3.7 0.2 1.5 3.5 3.3

Employment annual % –0.7 0.2 0.4 0.6 1.0 1.2 1.9 2.8  0.2 1.2 3.1 2.0
Unemployment rate % s.a. 5.3 5.4 5.3 5.6 5.6 5.4 5.1 4.9  5.4 5.4 4.6 4.2
LCI, all sect incl o/t, ann % 2.1 2.0 2.0 1.9 2.2 2.3 2.3 2.2 2.0 2.3 2.2 2.3
CPI annual % 3.0 3.1 3.1 4.5 4.4 4.1 3.4 1.5 3.1 4.1 1.7 2.6
Current account % of GDP –3.5 –3.7 –3.9 –4.1 –4.3 –4.3 –4.1 –4.0 –3.7 –4.3 –4.0 –4.2
Terms of trade annual % 5.2 3.5 0.8 –3.3 0.0 1.2 5.3 6.3 3.5 1.2 5.0 0.4
Sources: Statistics NZ, Westpac Economics.

===== Page 263 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
27
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FORECASTS
Commodity prices
End of period Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Australian commodities index# 411 415 426 417 399 388 380 370 362 351
Bulk commodities index# 402 410 380 360 350 340 340 340 350 350

iron ore finesTSI @ 62% US$/t 112 104 101 95 87 83 83 84 84 85
Premium low vol met coal (US$/t) 231 230 220 200 201 203 204 205 207 208
Newcastle spot thermal coal (US$/t) 141 150 135 120 121 121 122 123 124 124
crude oil (US$/bbl) Brent 104 112 95 83 84 74 73 64 63 60
LNG in Japan US$mmbtu 17.01 18.2 24.6 20.0 16.6 16.4 14.2 12.4 12.2 11.2
gold (US$/oz) 4,682 4,800 4,930 5,000 5,000 4,950 4,900 4,850 4,700 4,400
Base metals index# 267 265 270 274 274 269 264 247 241 235

copper (US$/t) 13,236 13,100 13,250 13,350 13,350 13,250 13,150 12,340 12,240 11,950
aluminium (US$/t) 3,560 3,600 3,800 4,000 4,000 3,850 3,650 3,500 3,350 3,300
nickel (US$/t) 19,179 18,750 18,500 18,250 17,950 17,850 17,550 17,000 16,000 15,750
zinc (US$/t) 3,408 3,370 3,380 3,390 3,390 3,380 3,360 2,960 2,920 2,790
lead (US$/t) 1,974 1,950 1,950 1,940 1,940 1,900 1,800 1,530 1,500 1,420
Rural commodities index# 148 149 148 149 147 142 137 130 128 123

NZ commodities index ## 407 409 415 415 413 414 415 416 417 418
dairy price index ## 338 340 342 342 345 349 353 357 359 361
whole milk powder USD/t 3,687 3,500 3,450 3,400 3,500 3,600 3,670 3,750 3,790 3,830
skim milk powder USD/t 3,381 3,150 3,050 2,950 3,000 3,050 3,100 3,150 3,180 3,210
lamb price index ## 640 655 677 650 632 622 621 620 617 612
beef price index ## 400 407 427 413 404 398 398 397 396 395
forestry price index ## 165 160 158 159 159 159 160 160 160 161

levels %change
Annual averages 2025 2026(f) 2027(f) 2028(f) 2025 2026(f) 2027(f) 2028(f)
Australian commodities index# 324 414 384 350 4.2 27.7 –7.1 –8.9
Bulk commodities index# 378 397 350 353 –12.7 5.0 –11.8 0.9
iron ore fines @ 62% USD/t 102 103 85 85 –6.9 0.8 –17.2 –0.2
LNG in Japan $mmbtu 11.9 19.0 15.5 11 –8.8 60.2 –18.3 –28.2
ave coking coal price (US$/t) 166 180 174 179 –19.6 8.7 –3.6 2.9
ave thermal price (US$/t) 119 130 119 121 –12.1 9.1 –9.0 2.4

iron ore fines contracts (US¢ dltu) 143 142 125 121 –12.2 –0.5 –12.1 –2.7
Premium low vol met coal (US$/t) 188 224 203 184 –21.7 19.0 –9.5 –9.5
crude oil (US$/bbl) Brent ICE 67 93 75 60 –13.1 38.7 –19.1 –19.8
gold (US$/oz) 3,470 4,870 4,940 4,492 44.0 40.3 1.4 –9.1
Base metals index# 208 264 264 235 3.1 26.5 0.1 –11.1
copper (US$/t) 10,000 13,100 13,100 12,000 8.7 31.0 0.0 –8.4
aluminium (US$/t) 2,600 3,600 3,800 3,300 8.3 38.5 5.6 –13.2
nickel (US$/t) 15,300 18,200 17,700 15,900 –9.5 19.0 –2.7 –10.2

zinc (US$/t) 2,900 3,400 3,300 2,800 3.6 17.2 –2.9 –15.2
lead (US$/t) 2,000 1,900 1,800 1,400 –4.8 –5.0 –5.3 –22.2
Rural commodities index# 120 143 139 121 –5.0 19.4 –3.3 –12.5
NZ commodities index ## 390 409 414 418 9.2 4.7 1.4 0.9
dairy price index ## 348 409 351 361 9.7 17.3 –14.0 2.9
whole milk powder USD/t 3,902 3,529 3,594 3,829 13.5 –9.6 1.8 6.5
skim milk powder USD/t 2,702 3,085 3,054 3,216 0.6 14.1 –1.0 5.3
lamb price index ## 587 656 626 609 27.0 11.7 –4.5 –2.7

beef price index ## 337 408 400 394 19.1 21.0 –2.0 –1.4
forestry price index ## 152 157 159 161 –4.9 3.4 1.7 1.2
# Chain weighted index: weights are Australian export shares. * Australian export prices fob – ABS 5432.0 Merchandise Trade Exports. ** WCFI – Westpac commodities futures index. *** Weekly averages except
for the Bulks Index. ^ AWEX market prices. Sources for all tables: Westpac Economics, Bloomberg ##ANZ NZ commodity price index ^^ GlobalDairyTrade

===== Page 264 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
28
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
United States
Currency forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
USD vs
DXY index 98.20 97.8 97.6 96.7 95.9 95.0 94.2 93.9 94.0 93.8
JPY 156.89 157 156 154 152 150 148 146 144 142
EUR 1.1730 1.18 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.22

AUD 0.7203 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.73
NZD 0.5934 0.59 0.59 0.62 0.64 0.66 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67
CAD 1.3661 1.37 1.36 1.35 1.34 1.34 1.33 1.32 1.31 1.30
GBP 1.3552 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.41
CHF 0.7806 0.77 0.76 0.75 0.75 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.75 0.75
ZAR 16.46 16.5 16.5 16.4 16.4 16.2 16.2 16.2 16.6 16.6
SGD 1.2695 1.27 1.26 1.26 1.26 1.26 1.26 1.25 1.25 1.25
HKD 7.8327 7.80 7.79 7.78 7.76 7.75 7.75 7.75 7.75 7.75
PHP 60.41 59.0 58.5 58.0 57.5 57.0 56.0 55.0 54.0 54.0

THB 32.31 31.6 31.4 31.2 31.0 30.8 30.6 30.2 30.1 30.1
MYR 3.9170 3.95 3.95 3.90 3.90 3.85 3.85 3.85 3.80 3.80
CNY 6.8023 6.80 6.75 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35
IDR 17333 17000 16800 16600 16500 16400 16300 16200 16000 16000
TWD 31.40 31.2 30.7 30.2 29.7 29.2 28.7 28.4 28.2 28.2
KRW 1462 1470 1460 1440 1420 1400 1380 1360 1340 1340
INR 94.25 93.0 91.0 90.0 89.0 89.0 88.0 88.0 87.0 87.0
FORECASTS
Interest rate forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28

Fed Funds* 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625
10 Year Bond 4.39 4.35 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.60 4.65 4.70 4.75
Sources: Bloomberg, Westpac Economics.  * +12.5bps from the Fed Funds lower bound (overnight reverse repo rate).
Activity forecasts
2025 2026  Calendar years
% annualised, s/adj Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
Private consumption 0.6 2.5 3.5 1.9 1.6 1.6 1.7 1.7 2.6 1.9 1.9 2.1
Dwelling investment –1.0 –5.1 –7.1 –1.7 -8.0 0.0 0.0 0.8 –2.2 –3.5 0.9 2.0

Business investment 9.5 7.3 3.2 2.4 10.4 4.4 5.6 5.6 4.1 5.7 5.1 4.7
Public demand –1.0 –0.1 2.2 –5.6 4.4 2.0 0.4 0.4 1.1 0.7 0.5 0.4
Domestic final demand 1.5 2.5 2.9 0.6 3.0 2.0 2.0 2.1 2.4 2.1 2.1 2.2
Inventories contribution ppt 0.7 –0.4 –0.4 –0.1 –0.8 0.1 0.1 0.1 –0.1 0.1 0.0 0.1
Net exports contribution ppt –1.8 –0.1 0.5 0.4 1.3 -0.2 –0.8 –0.8 0.4 -0.8 –0.5 –0.5
GDP –0.6 3.8 4.4 0.5 2.0 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.9
%yr annual chg 2.0 2.1 2.3 2.0 2.7 2.1 1.4 1.7 – – – –

Other macroeconomic variables
Non–farm payrolls mth avg 68 56 11 –30 44 80 80 90 26 74 103 120
Unemployment rate % 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.4 4.3 4.5 4.5 4.6 4.4 4.7 4.8 4.7
CPI headline %yr 2.7 2.4 2.9 2.7 2.7 3.2 3.1 2.9 2.7 2.9 2.4 2.3
PCE deflator, core %yr 2.8 2.7 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.7 2.5 2.8 2.5 2.3 2.2
Sources: Official agencies, Factset, Westpac Economics.

===== Page 265 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
29
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FORECASTS
Interest rate forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Euro Area
ECB Deposit Rate 2.00 2.25 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.50 2.25 2.00 2.00 2.00
10 Year Bund 3.00 3.00 3.05 3.05 3.05 3.00 2.95 2.90 2.90 2.90

10 Year Spread to US -138 -135 -135 -140 -145 -155 -165 -175 -180 -185
United Kingdom
BoE Bank Rate 3.75 4.00 4.25 4.25 4.25 4.00 3.75 3.50 3.50 3.50
10 Year Gilt 4.95 4.90 4.95 4.95 4.95 4.90 4.85 4.80 4.75 4.75
10 Year Spread to US 56 55 55 50 45 35 25 15 5 0
Sources: Bloomberg, Westpac Economics.
Europe & the United Kingdom
Currency forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
euro vs
USD 1.1730 1.18 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.22

JPY 184.04 185 184 183 182 182 181 178 175 173
GBP 0.8655 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.87 0.86 0.86
CHF 0.9156 0.91 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.90 0.91 0.91 0.91 0.91
DKK 7.4726 7.47 7.47 7.47 7.47 7.47 7.47 7.47 7.47 7.47
SEK 10.89 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9
NOK 10.91 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9 10.9
sterling vs
USD 1.3552 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.41
JPY 212.64 213 212 211 210 209 207 206 202 200
CHF 1.0579 1.04 1.03 1.03 1.03 1.03 1.04 1.05 1.05 1.06

AUD 0.5315 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.53 0.52 0.52 0.52
Sources: Bloomberg, Westpac Economics.
Activity forecasts
Annual average % chg 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
Euro area GDP 3.7 0.5 0.9 1.5 0.7 1.1 1.5
private consumption 5.3 0.6 1.3 1.5 0.9 1.2 1.4
fixed investment 2.2 2.7 –2.6 3.1 1.1 1.3 2.1
government consumption 1.3 1.5 2.3 1.6 2.3 2.1 1.9
net exports contribution ppt –0.1 0.3 0.3 –0.5 –0.3 –0.2 –0.3
Germany GDP 1.9 –0.7 –0.5 0.3 0.6 1.1 1.7

France GDP 2.8 1.6 1.1 0.9 0.7 0.8 1.2
Italy GDP 5.0 1.0 0.6 0.7 0.6 0.7 1.0
Spain GDP 6.4 2.5 3.5 2.8 2.2 1.9 2.1
Netherlands GDP 5.0 –0.6 1.1 1.8 0.8 1.1 1.6
United Kingdom GDP 5.1 0.3 1.1 1.4 0.8 1.1 1.5

===== Page 266 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
30
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
China activity forecasts
Calendar years 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
Real GDP 8.6 3.1 5.4 5.0 5.0 4.7 4.6 4.4
Consumer prices %yr 1.5 1.8 –0.3 0.1 0.1 0.9 1.3 1.7
Producer prices %yr 10.3 –0.7 –2.7 –2.3 –2.6 0.3 0.8 1.5
Industrial production (IVA) 9.6 3.6 4.6 5.8 5.9 5.0 4.8 4.6

Retail sales 12.5 –0.2 7.2 3.5 4.1 4.4 4.6 4.8
Money supply M2 %yr 9.0 11.8 9.7 7.3 8.0 7.8 7.6 7.5
Fixed asset investment 4.9 5.1 3.0 3.2 –1.0 3.6 4.0 4.5
Exports %yr 20.9 –9.9 –2.3 10.7 5.1 3.0 2.8 2.5
Imports %yr 19.5 –7.5 0.2 0.9 0.0 1.5 1.5 1.2
Source: Macrobond, Bloomberg. Year–to–date growth unless otherwise noted.
FORECASTS
Asia
Chinese interest rates & monetary policy
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28

Required reserve ratio %* 9.00 8.50 8.50 8.50 8.50 8.50 8.50 8.50 8.50 8.50
Loan Prime Rate, 1–year 3.00 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80 2.80
* For major banks.
Currency forecasts
Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
JPY 156.89 157 156 154 152 150 148 146 144 142
SGD 1.2695 1.27 1.26 1.26 1.26 1.26 1.26 1.25 1.25 1.25
HKD 7.8327 7.80 7.79 7.78 7.76 7.75 7.75 7.75 7.75 7.75
PHP 60.41 59.0 58.5 58.0 57.5 57.0 56.0 55.0 54.00 54.00

THB 32.31 31.6 31.4 31.2 31.0 30.8 30.6 30.2 30.1 30.1
MYR 3.9170 3.95 3.95 3.90 3.90 3.85 3.85 3.85 3.80 3.80
CNY 6.8023 6.80 6.75 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35
IDR 17333 17000 16800 16600 16500 16400 16300 16200 16000 16000
TWD 31.40 31.2 30.7 30.2 29.7 29.2 28.7 28.4 28.2 28.2
KRW 1462 1470 1460 1440 1420 1400 1380 1360 1340 1340
INR 94.25 93.0 91.0 90.0 89.0 89.0 88.0 88.0 87.0 87.0
Source: Bloomberg, Westpac Economics.
Japanese interest rates & monetary policy

Latest (May 8) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Policy Rate 0.75 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00 1.00
10 Year Bond Yield 2.49 2.20 2.15 2.10 2.05 2.00 1.95 1.90 1.85 1.80

===== Page 267 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
31
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
GLOBAL SUMMARY
Worldwide
Economic growth forecasts (year average) #
Real GDP %ann 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025f 2026f 2027f 2028f
World 6.7 3.8 3.3 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.3 3.3
United States 6.2 2.5 2.9 2.8 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.9
Japan 3.6 1.3 0.7 -0.2 1.2 0.6 0.8 0.9

Euro zone 6.4 3.7 0.5 0.9 1.5 0.7 1.1 1.5
Group of 3 5.9 2.8 1.8 1.7 1.8 1.4 1.4 1.6
United Kingdom 8.5 5.1 0.3 1.1 1.4 0.8 1.1 1.5
Canada 6.0 4.7 2.0 2.0 1.7 1.2 1.8 2.0
Australia 5.4 4.2 2.1 1.0 2.0 1.8 1.2 2.4
New Zealand 5.5 2.6 2.2 -0.3 0.2 1.5 3.5 3.3
OECD total 6.2 3.2 1.9 1.8 1.7 1.5 1.5 1.7
China 8.4 3.1 5.4 5.0 5.0 4.7 4.6 4.4
Korea 4.6 2.7 1.6 2.0 1.0 2.0 2.0 1.9
Taiwan 6.7 2.7 1.1 5.3 8.7 6.5 4.0 3.0
Hong Kong 6.5 -3.7 3.2 2.6 3.5 2.9 2.5 2.3

Singapore 10.1 4.0 1.5 5.3 5.0 3.3 2.6 2.5
Indonesia 3.7 5.3 5.0 5.0 5.1 5.0 5.2 5.2
Thailand 1.6 2.7 2.2 2.9 2.4 1.6 2.3 2.6
Malaysia 3.3 9.0 3.5 5.1 5.2 4.4 4.4 4.3
Philippines 5.7 7.6 5.5 5.7 4.4 4.7 5.5 5.9
Vietnam 2.6 8.5 5.1 7.0 8.0 7.0 7.0 6.9
East Asia 7.1 3.6 4.7 4.8 4.9 4.6 4.5 4.3
East Asia ex China 4.4 4.6 3.4 4.5 4.7 4.3 4.2 4.1
NIEs* 6.1 2.3 1.6 3.4 4.0 3.6 2.7 2.3
India 9.7 7.6 7.2 7.1 7.6 6.5 6.7 6.6
Russia 5.9 -1.4 4.1 4.9 1.0 1.1 1.3 1.5

Brazil 4.8 3.0 3.2 3.4 2.3 1.7 1.9 2.1
South Africa 4.9 2.1 0.8 0.5 1.1 1.0 1.3 1.5
Mexico 6.0 3.7 3.1 1.4 0.6 1.6 2.2 2.1
Argentina 10.4 6.0 -1.9 -1.3 4.4 3.5 4.0 3.8
Chile 11.3 2.2 0.5 2.6 2.3 2.4 2.6 2.3
Middle East 2.8 2.8 2.8 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9 2.9
C & E Europe 9.1 4.3 3.0 3.2 3.0 3.1 3.5 3.7
Africa 3.9 4.4 3.8 4.2 4.5 4.3 4.4 4.5
Emerging ex–East Asia 6.8 3.7 3.7 4.7 4.4 4.1 4.3 4.3
Other countries 6.7 5.2 4.9 2.0 2.3 2.8 3.0 3.1
World 6.7 3.8 3.3 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.3 3.3

#Regional and global groupings are weighted using PPP exchange rates updated to reflect ICP 2011 benchmark revisions.* “NIEs” signifies “Newly Industrialised Economies” as defined by the IMF,
viz; Republic of Korea, Hong Kong SAR, Taiwan Province of China, and Singapore.

===== Page 268 =====

Westpac Economics / Fiji
Suva
1 Thomson Street
Suva, Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au

===== Page 269 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 270 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 271 =====

ECONOMIC OVERVIEW
Under the pump.
May 2026

===== Page 272 =====

Darren Gibbs, Senior Economist
+64 9 367 3368 | +64 21 794 292
darren.gibbs@westpac.co.nz
Paul Clark, Industry Economist
+64 9 336 5656 | +64 21 713 704
paul.clark@westpac.co.nz
A note from Kelly 3
Overview 4
Global and Iran conflict assumptions 5
Iran conflict transmission 6
Households 7
Labour market 8
Housing and migration 9
Construction 10
Business investment 11
Fiscal 12
Agriculture 13
Exports and balance of payments 14
Inflation 15
Monetary policy 16

Monetary policy scenarios 17
Foreign exchange 18
The economy in eight charts 19
Economic and financial forecasts 21
Westpac Economics Team      Connect with us

===== Page 273 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
3
A NOTE
FROM KELLY
Under the pump.
The outlook for the economy has shifted dramatically from the optimistic view we held in
February. Now we look set for another year of positive but still sub-par growth at 1.5% as the
Iran war and the associated rise in oil and refined fuel prices have their impact. Real petrol and
diesel prices are now at 50 year highs, and while global oil prices are not at record highs in real
terms, they are at levels consistent with past global recessions.

We don’t expect a recession right now. Rather the view is that the Iran war will merely cause a
pause in the economic recovery. However, these forecasts are highly uncertain as the extent
of the interruption to New Zealand’s growth will depend on the duration of the Iran war. We
assume conditions there will improve in coming months. But that’s an assumption, not a
strongly held informed view.
The expected economic hiatus will impact the services sector, retail spending and hospitality

the hardest, reflecting the implied hit to household incomes. Tourism will also be interrupted
as global uncertainty and airline fare prices remain high. The primary sector should continue
to perform relatively well as the exchange rate will remain supportive and global food prices
should be underpinned by high global fertiliser prices and reduced global food production.
A significant cost squeeze is in train that will pressure firms’ margins but also significantly lift

inflation. Annual headline CPI inflation will move into the 4-5% range for a time and lift inflation
expectations to some extent. Core inflation looks set to rise above the top of the RBNZ’s target
range and require the OCR to rise towards 3% in 2026, and higher through 2027. The duration
of the war and the extent to which firms and households try to boost prices and wages to
counteract the income shock will dictate the degree of OCR increases ultimately required.

===== Page 274 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
4
The fog of war.
• Much of the improving momentum that we saw in the early part of the year has
been temporarily derailed by the conflict in the Middle East. We now expect
subdued economic growth of 1.5% over 2026, with unemployment to rise to
5.6% from 5.3% currently.
• Large and widespread increases in costs are expected to see inflation rising to
well above the RBNZ’s target band until mid-2027. The resulting pressure on

households’ finances will be a significant drag on spending. In addition, high
uncertainty will weigh on businesses’ plans for hiring and investment.
• Continued strength in commodity prices, a supportive exchange rate and still
stimulatory interest rates are supporting incomes, especially in rural regions.
• The RBNZ faces a challenging balancing act. The hike in fuel prices is likely to
boost core inflation, requiring OCR hikes beginning in September. We expect the

OCR to rise to 3.5% in early-2027, taking it closer to ‘neutral’ levels. Beyond that
time, the OCR will likely need to move into restrictive territory, but at a more
gradual pace. We expect a peak of 4.25% by the end of 2027.
• Economic growth and the labour market are expected to improve as inflation
drops back and uncertainty reduces when the Iran war ends. However, the
timeframe for this improved environment is uncertain, raising the possibility of

persistent inflation pressures and weak growth.
OVERVIEW
“ The economy is navigating rocky waters, with
subdued economic growth, a soft labour market
and high inflation. Interest rates are set to rise –
it’s a question of ‘when,’ not ‘if’ hikes occur.”
Key economic forecasts*
2024 2025 2026f 2027f
GDP growth (% year) -1.6 1.3 1.5 3.2
Inflation (% year end) 2.2 3.1 4.4 1.6
Unemployment rate (%) 5.1 5.4 5.6 4.9
House prices (% year end) -1.0 -0.1 -0.9 2.0

Official Cash Rate (%) 4.25 2.25 3.00 4.25
* Growth rates are December quarters compared to same quarter previous year.
Total and per capita GDP growth
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 2028
%yr%yr
Per capita growth
Total growth
Westpac
forecasts
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac

===== Page 275 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
5
Energy prices assumed to remain elevated for some time.
• The future path of the Middle East conflict is very uncertain. We assume transit
through the Strait of Hormuz remains limited for a couple of months yet but
gradually improves towards pre-conflict levels in late 2026 to mid-2027.
• We optimistically assume that Brent crude declines to $US83/bbl by the end of
2026 and $US64/bbl by the end of 2027. Refined fuel prices will fall more slowly

due to damage to oil infrastructure and the rebuild of inventories.
Global growth a bit slower; central banks to lean against inflation.
• Our global growth forecasts for this year and next are modestly weaker than
in February, reflecting the war. Following growth of 3.2% last year, we expect
trading partner growth of 2.8% in 2026, 2.7% in 2027 and 2.9% in 2028.
• US growth is forecast to remain resilient but we expect slower growth in Europe
and much of Asia. Australian growth will slow as the RBA tightens policy to

restrain inflation that was too high even before the war. Global growth is
expected to be supported by the still robust artificial intelligence investment
cycle and still supportive financial conditions as equity markets remain strong.
• Generally, central bank policy rates are expected to rise modestly. While the Fed
may not raise its policy rate, rates in the UK, the euro area and Australia will rise
50bps in 2026 to lean against rising inflation from higher fuel prices.

GLOBAL AND IRAN
CONFLICT ASSUMPTIONS
“ We assume that oil flows through the Strait of
Hormuz are limited for a couple of months yet but
improve gradually thereafter. Hence energy prices
will remain elevated.”
Oil price assumptions
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
Jan-16 Jan-19 Jan-22 Jan-25 Jan-28
Singapore gasoil
Brent crude
$US/bbl $US/bbl
Assumed path
Source: Bloomberg, Westpac
Trading partner growth
-1

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Australia China United
States
Japan East
Asia
ex China
Euro
zone
NZ
trading
partners
%yr%yr
2024
2025
2026f
2027f
2028f
Average 2015-19
Sources: IMF, Westpac

===== Page 276 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
6
The Middle East conflict will lead to lower growth in the near term.
• Near-term growth prospects have been dented by the Middle East conflict.
Higher oil prices will lower discretionary incomes and firms’ profitability. In
addition, increased uncertainties about the outlook will cause households and
firms to delay spending, investment and hiring decisions.
• Households and firms offshore face the same pressures. Slower trading partner

growth will weigh on demand for some of New Zealand’s exports. For example,
tourist inflows, especially from long-haul sources, will likely be dampened.
Inflation higher in the near term, medium-term outlook less clear.
• The Middle East conflict has led to higher prices for refined fuels and other
commodities, as well as higher prices for goods for which these commodities
are significant inputs. This will drive headline inflation higher in the near term.

• A tendency to extrapolate past outcomes means that measures of inflation
expectations will rise with headline inflation. All else equal, this could lead to
‘second round’ increases in a broader range of prices, including wages.
• But weaker growth in activity will lead to greater economic slack and make
it harder for these broader price increases to occur. The implications of the
conflict for medium-term inflation will depend on the duration and path of the

conflict and on how these opposing economic forces balance.
IRAN CONFLICT
TRANSMISSION
“ The conflict will weigh on GDP growth and boost
inflation, at least for a while. The medium-term
inflation path is uncertain and critically depends
on when the war ends.”
Hiring and investment intentions
Employment
Investment
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30 Net BalanceNet Balance
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Sources: Macrobond, ANZ, Westpac

Wages and wage expectations
Next 12 months Past 12 months
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0 %yr%yr
May Sep Jan May Sep Jan May Sep Jan May Sep Jan May
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Sources: Macrobond, ANZ, Westpac

===== Page 277 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
7
HOUSEHOLDS
Mounting pressures on households’ finances.
• Households’ finances are coming under renewed pressure, and spending growth
is set to slow sharply over the coming months. That’s being compounded by low
consumer confidence.
• Cost of living pressures have intensified, with petrol prices rising by more than
30% since the start of the Middle East conflict. That’s compounded the large
increases in the cost of other essentials like food and electricity over the past

year. The coming months are expected to see increases in many other costs.
• At the same time, the labour market remains soft. Despite dipping modestly to
5.3% in the March quarter, unemployment remains elevated, and it’s likely to
push higher over the coming months, with wage growth likely to remain limited.
• An additional headwind for households is the changing interest rate
environment. Over the past few years, many borrowers have been rolling off the

relatively high interest rates that were previously on offer and onto lower ones.
While that process will continue for a few more months, mortgage rates have
been pushing higher again. As a result, borrowers who are now refixing their
mortgages are seeing smaller falls in their borrowing costs. And over the coming
year, borrowers will start to gradually roll onto higher rates.
• Spending is expected to reaccelerate through 2027 as cost of living pressures

start to ease.
“ The fall in borrowing costs seen over the past
couple of years is coming to a close. At the same
time, cost of living pressures are mounting.”
Household spending growth
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
%yr
Per-capita spending
Total spending
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecast
%yr
Global financial crisis Pandemic
Household spending on interest costs
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
0
1

2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
2007 2010 2013 2016 2019 2022 2025
%
Change in interest costs (quarterly, % of disposable incomes, right axis)
Average mortgage rate (adjusted for when borrowers fixed their rate, left axis)
Sources: RBNZ, Stats NZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts
% of disposable income

===== Page 278 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
8
LABOUR
MARKET
War impacts suggest that peak unemployment is yet to come.
• The labour market was in the early stages of a turnaround prior to the Iran
conflict. High-frequency indicators of employment and vacancies have picked
up in recent months, and the unemployment rate dipped slightly to 5.3% in
the March quarter, the first decline in four years. Beneath these encouraging
headlines though, the jobs market is gridlocked, with rates of both firing and

hiring remaining unusually low through the current cycle.
• The Iran conflict is likely to put a dampener on firms’ near-term hiring plans,
as they face rising input costs and an erosion of consumer demand. We expect
employment growth to be close to flat over the rest of this year, with the
unemployment rate rising again to a peak of 5.6%. We also expect a more
gradual improvement in 2027 and beyond compared to our February forecasts.
• Wage growth remains subdued, reflecting the existing degree of slack in

the labour market. While there are reportedly some pockets where workers
are becoming harder to find, overall conditions are quite different from the
post-Covid surge in wage and price inflation. Demands for cost-of-living pay
adjustments are likely to be more prominent over the next year, but we expect
that the relative lack of bargaining power for workers will keep wage growth
relatively muted compared to CPI inflation.
“ The Iran conflict is likely to dampen firms’ near-

term hiring plans, leading to a further rise in the
unemployment rate and limited ability to negotiate
cost-of-living pay increases.”
Employment growth and unemployment rate
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2002 2006 2010 2014 2018 2022 2026
%yr%
Employment, annual change (right axis)
Unemployment rate (left axis)
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts
Wage growth and labour market tightness
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026 2029

%yrIndex
Vacancy to unemployment ratio (left axis)
QSBO labour as main limiting factor (left axis)
Labour Cost Index, private sector (right axis)
Westpac
forecasts
Sources: Stats NZ, NZIER, Westpac

===== Page 279 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
9
HOUSING AND
MIGRATION
The Iran war will upend the housing recovery.
• Early in 2026 a stronger tone emerged in the housing market. House prices rose
0.4% over Q1 as low interest rates, a strengthening labour market and improving
household confidence began to lift prices.
• The Iran war has removed much of the support for housing. Sharply weaker
consumer confidence, weaker employment prospects and the potential for
earlier interest rate increases imply a much weaker housing outlook.

• We envisage flat to slightly lower house prices over 2026 as households
internalise the impact of the hit to incomes and balance sheets coming from
higher oil prices and weaker discretionary incomes. Another year of sub-par
economic growth is consistent with falling house prices in 2026.
Population-driven demand picking up from its lows.
• A lift in population growth, led by higher migration, should provide some
offsetting support for housing. Departures of New Zealanders are coming off

their highs, and we expect this to continue as tougher conditions in Australia
diminish its relative appeal. We also expect a lift in foreign arrivals over this
year, although much of this will come under the Parent Boost Visa, which may
shift the mix of demand towards larger properties rather than adding to demand
as a whole.
“ Despite increasing net migration, the Iran war’s
impact on household incomes and confidence
implies another year of subdued growth and falling

house prices nationally.”
Annual growth in house prices and GDP growth
Migration, annual balance
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
2003 2007 2011 2015 2019 2023 2027
000s000s
Inflows
Outflows
Net migration
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts

===== Page 280 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
10
CONSTRUCTION
Recent momentum unlikely to be sustained.
• The amount of residential building work planned has picked up over the past
year, with dwelling consent numbers rising to their highest level since 2023.
That was encouraged by last year’s falls in interest rates, and we expect to see
residential building activity turning higher through the middle part of this year.
• However, the pace of homebuilding is expected to slow again as we head into

2027. The conflict in the Middle East has resulted in a sharp rise in fuel costs,
with related increases in materials prices. In some cases those increases
have been substantial. More generally, there has been a lift in uncertainty
and upward pressure on borrowing costs. Putting that all together on top of
continued sluggish price growth, developers are likely to be cautious about
initiating new projects while war-related uncertainty persists.
• Commercial building activity dropped back over the past year, and the amount

of planned work has been tracking sideways. Office and industrial development
have continued to hold up at firm levels, but haven’t been rising. The number of
retail and hospitality projects has remained more modest.
• Looking ahead, recent business surveys have shown a drop in business
confidence and a winding back of plans for capital expenditure. Combined with
increases in materials prices and financing costs, that’s likely to put a dampener
on the amount of new projects over the coming year.

“ While homebuilding is expected to pick up over
the coming months, it’s likely to slow again as we
head into 2027.”
Residential building and consents
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
Residential building work (left axis)
Building consents (monthly, right axis)
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Number$m
Commercial building
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026

$m
Consented floor space (annual, right axis)
Value of consented work (annual, left axis)
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Floor area (mtr sq, 000)

===== Page 281 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
11
BUSINESS
INVESTMENT
Investment decisions to be delayed while war uncertainty reigns.
• Business confidence surveys show that the Iran conflict has clearly put a dent
in firms’ near-term investment plans. While business sentiment is by no means
low compared to the last few years, the momentum that was starting to build in
recent months now faces a fresh setback.
• The timing and extent of the impact on firms’ actual investment decisions

is highly uncertain. We’ll be keeping an eye on indicators such as imports of
capital equipment, although there can be a substantial lag between when
an investment decision is made and the equipment actually turns up. Capital
imports rose strongly in the first quarter of this year, adding to the evidence that
the economy was starting to regain some momentum from the second half of
2025. We expect a more subdued level of imports and investment over the rest

of this year.
• These forecasts largely represent a delay rather than a cancellation of
investment spending, with some catch-up expected over 2027 as the economy
regains momentum. The replacement cycle has likely been a major driver of the
recovery in investment to date, and we suspect that more is still needed after
a sharp drop-off in the rate of investment in 2023-24. This may be particularly
true for IT and software investment, where the replacement cycle is shorter and

firms will be looking to take advantage of developments in AI.
“ Capital imports rose strongly in the first quarter of
this year, adding to the evidence that the economy
was starting to regain momentum before the
Iran conflict.”
Business sentiment
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
2005 2009 2013 2017 2021 2025
Net %Net %
Expected activity next 3 months
Investment intentions (plant and buildings)
Source: NZIER
Plant and machinery investment
2

3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12
13
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
2010 2013 2016 2019 2022 2025 2028
$bn$bn
PME investment (left axis)
Feb QEO forecast (left axis)
PME imports, real (right axis)
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts

===== Page 282 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
12
FISCAL
The oil shock has slightly weakened the near-term fiscal outlook.
• Higher inflation and interest rates will raise social welfare and debt financing
costs. While higher inflation also tends to raise tax revenue, the weaker outlook
for activity, employment and profits work in the opposite direction.
• On balance, we think that the near-term outlook for OBEGALx and net core
Crown debt is slightly weaker than forecast in HYEFU 2025. But provided that

the oil shock is not long-lived, and that export commodity prices remain as
favourable as forecast, an OBEGALx surplus in 2029/30 remains a possibility,
even assuming higher discretionary spending from Budget 2027 onwards.
NZ’s credit rating at risk if fiscal consolidation is not achieved.
• Recently both Moody’s and Fitch have attached a negative outlook to NZ’s
sovereign credit rating. This indicates a possible downgrade in 12-24 months if
the factors leading to the negative outlook are not addressed.

• NZ’s current rating is higher than those agencies’ models recommend given
prevailing fiscal metrics, with the agencies granting NZ a discretionary ‘uplift’
based on the success of past governments at addressing fiscal imbalances.
• The negative outlook suggests that agencies are losing confidence that fiscal
consolidation will be achieved given the lack of progress made in recent years.
The Government will need to demonstrate progress to avoid a downgrade.

“ The Government is going to need to demonstrate
commitment to achieving fiscal balance in order
to avoid a credit rating downgrade at some point
in the next year or two.”
Operating balance (OBEGALx), % of GDP
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029
Actual
HYEFU
Westpac
Forecast
% of GDP % of GDP
Source: NZ Treasury, Westpac
Net core Crown debt, % of GDP
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45

50
2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026 2029
Actual
HYEFU
Westpac
% of GDP % of GDP
Forecast
Government
long-term net
debt goal
Source: NZ Treasury, Westpac

===== Page 283 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
13
AGRICULTURE
Export prices to remain resilient.
• The Iran war will likely keep prices for New Zealand’s commodity exports higher
for longer. In the near term the scope for passing through higher diesel, fertiliser
and feed costs is likely to be limited, implying some pressure on margins.
However, the longer hostilities persist, the greater the likelihood that those
costs will be passed through to output prices.
• While the global milk supply remains ample, that’s been matched by strong

demand for protein. We have lifted our farmgate milk price forecast for the
2026/27 season by 30c to $9.50/kg, noting that the range of uncertainty will be
particularly wide at this stage. We’ve maintained our forecast of $9.80/kg for
this season, which is slightly above the midpoint of Fonterra’s forecast range.
• We expect beef and lamb export prices to remain elevated. In addition to the
Iran war, our expectations are driven by how quickly the US beef herd rebuilds,

still-strong US consumer demand for protein, possible punitive tariff action by
the US, weaker consumption in China, and price resistance in the UK and EU.
• Meanwhile, kiwifruit and apple export prices are set to plateau at high levels as
supply catches up with demand in key offshore markets.
• Log export prices are expected to remain rangebound, showing little upward
momentum in the face of weak construction activity in China. Rising freight
costs as a result of the war are likely to add pressure on margins.

“ The Iran war will likely keep food prices higher for
longer and help offset increased costs from higher
energy and fertiliser prices.”
Commodity prices – World and NZ dollar denominated
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2010 2014 2018 2022 2026 2030
New Zealand prices
World prices
Westpac
forecasts
Index 2026 Q1 = 100 Index 2026 Q1 = 100
Sources: ANZ, Westpac
Commodity prices by category
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100

110
120
130
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2010 2014 2018 2022 2026
Dairy
Horticulture
Forestry
Meat, skins, woolSources: ANZ, Westpac
Index 2026 Q1 = 100 Index 2026 Q1 = 100
Westpac
forecasts

===== Page 284 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
14
EXPORTS AND BALANCE
OF PAYMENTS
Higher oil prices will widen the external deficit in the near term.
• We expect goods export volumes will maintain the gradual upward trend seen
over the past couple of years, reflecting productivity gains in the primary sector,
ongoing growth in global demand (despite the Middle East conflict) and success
in the high-tech sector. But given the constraints faced by the primary sector,

export volumes will likely continue to edge lower as a share of GDP.
• Services export volumes have been growing strongly due to the resumption of
the post-pandemic recovery in tourist arrivals and growth in exports of some
high-tech business services. We expect that growth in tourist arrivals will
slow for a period later this year due to higher airfares and general pressure
on household budgets, with the impact likely to be more pronounced on
long-  haul travel.

• In the near term New Zealand’s import bill will be higher than previously
forecast. This is mostly due to the sharp increase in the price of refined fuels,
which is only partly offset by slightly lower import volumes due to more
subdued growth in activity. That bill is expected to moderate in 2027 given our
assumption that energy prices gradually return to pre-crisis levels.
• Overall, we now expect a temporary widening of the current account deficit

to just over 4% of GDP this year. The deficit should narrow thereafter, with the
surplus on the services balance returning to pre-pandemic levels as tourist
arrivals finally surpass their previous peak.
“ New Zealand’s external deficit will rise in the
near-term due to a higher bill for imported fuel,
but a strong outlook for export prices will help
moderate the impact.”
Short term international visitor arrivals
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-20
-15

-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
Jan-05 Jan-10 Jan-15 Jan-20 Jan-25
%y/y 12-mth m.a. %y/y%
Forecast
Source: Stats NZ, Westpac
GFC
European debt
crisis/post
Christchurch
Covid
%
Current account balance, % of GDP
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
2010 2014 2018 2022 2026
% of GDP% of GDP
Balance on goods
Balance on services
Investment income balance
Current account
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac Westpac
forecasts

===== Page 285 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
15
INFLATION
The worst is yet to come.
• Inflation is set to rise to 4.5% over the coming months and is likely to remain
above 3% until mid-2027. That’s mainly due to higher global oil prices, with
domestic petrol prices up more than 30%. There have also been a range of
related cost increases, like higher transport charges and material costs. While
excess capacity is likely to limit the pass through of higher costs to final prices,

significant inflation is still likely over the coming months. As a result, core
inflation is also likely to remain high and won’t fall back to 2% any time soon.
• That firmness in underlying inflation is being reinforced by continued large
increases in administered prices, like local council rates and electricity.
• Headline inflation is expected to drop back over 2027 when the impact of recent
oil price increases eventually dissipates. However, core inflation is expected to

ease back only gradually over 2027 towards the midpoint of the RBNZ’s target
band, rather than falling to low levels.
• With an extended period of pressure on margins, there is a risk that the current
reacceleration in inflation results in a more long-lasting lift in businesses’ pricing
behaviour. Businesses may begin factoring in the risk of continued large cost
increases when they adjust their prices. That could extend the lift in inflation
even after oil prices ease. Survey measures of inflation expectations and pricing

intentions have already taken a step higher.
“ The rise in oil prices has spilled over into a much
broader lift in cost pressures that’s being felt
across much of the economy.”
Headline and core inflation
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
Headline
CPI excl fuel
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
% yr % yr
Westpac
forecasts
Inflation expectations and pricing intentions
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2005 2010 2015 2020 2025

%
% of businesses planning on
increasing prices (left axis)
Expected inflation one year ahead
(right axis)
Source: ANZ
% of businesses

===== Page 286 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
16
MONETARY
POLICY
High inflation uncertainty implies a return to neutral.
• The outlook for inflation has shifted radically since February as forecasts of a
gradual fall in inflation towards 2% have been replaced with a sharply higher
forecast profile.
• The Iran war and associated energy cost shock represents a large supply shock
that is skewering the RBNZ between concerns of very high and potentially
persistent inflation and weaker growth with greater excess capacity.

• Monetary policy needs to reset the balance of risks to the inflation outlook
as the current 2.25% OCR was set based on a very different and more benign
inflation outlook. It seems clear that the OCR will rise towards 3% and more
neutral levels by end 2026. The question is when will tightening need to start?
• High and growing levels of excess capacity give the RBNZ more room to
manoeuvre than its peers, hence a gradual return of the OCR towards the

RBNZ’s perception of neutral in the 3-3.5% range is appropriate.
• It makes the most sense for the start of the normalisation process to begin
at a Monetary Policy Statement – i.e. in May or September. We currently see
September as the best option but the choice is finely balanced.
• Beginning the process in May might allow for a more gradual normalisation
path which could be desirable given uncertainty on the duration of the war. But
tightening when confidence is fragile could exacerbate the downturn.

“ The OCR is set to rise soon but the range of
potential levels 18 months out is wide given the
uncertainties. For now, returning the OCR towards
neutral makes sense.”
Official Cash Rate forecasts
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028
%%
RBNZ Feb 2026 MPS
Market pricing 11 May 2026
Westpac forecast
Sources: Bloomberg, RBNZ, Westpac
Forecasts
Movement in the 3 month rate 2 years ahead since Iran war

===== Page 287 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
17
MONETARY POLICY
SCENARIOS
Supply chain blockages and monetary policy trade-offs.
• The conflict in the Middle East has clouded the outlook for economic activity.
A key uncertainty is how developments in the region will affect both oil prices
and global supply chains.
• If tensions in the Middle East escalate or oil prices remain elevated for longer
than we have assumed, we would see an even larger knock to households’

finances and spending. There would also be deeper downturns in both
investment spending and the labour market. At the same time, the RBNZ would
face a large and more protracted lift in inflation. That could require a faster
and more aggressive tightening of the OCR, perhaps up to 4.75%, to ensure
businesses’ price setting behaviour remained consistent with the inflation target
over the medium term. Those higher interest rates would also compound the

downward pressure on activity and employment.
• In contrast, if the situation in the Middle East is resolved faster than assumed
in our baseline scenario, oil prices and the related disruptions to supply chains
could correct sooner. In such circumstances, the risk for longer term inflation
expectations would be less pronounced, allowing the RBNZ more time to assess
how the economy is faring before raising the OCR. Even so, the OCR is currently
at a low level. As spare capacity is eroded, gradual interest rate increases would

still be required over time to limit the risk of inflation settling at high levels even
after oil prices eventually drop back.
“ The conflict in the Middle East is clouding the
outlook for economic activity and inflation,
and that leaves the RBNZ with a challenging
balancing act.”
Core inflation (excluding fuel)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028
Earlier conflict resolution,
fewer activity disruptions
Protracted conflict,

higher inflation
Baseline
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
% yr % yr
Westpac
forecasts
Official Cash Rate forecasts
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026 2028
%%
Earlier conflict resolution,
fewer activity disruptions
Protracted conflict,
higher inflation
Baseline
Sources: Bloomberg,
RBNZ, Westpac
Westpac
Forecasts

===== Page 288 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
18
FOREIGN
EXCHANGE
The NZD is likely to languish for a while yet.
• The NZD has firmed modestly since the start of this year, both against the USD
and on a trade-weighted (TWI) basis. This comes at a time when the US dollar
has been relatively stable.
• However, the NZD/AUD has declined to a 15-year low, likely influenced by the
growing divergence in interest rates between New Zealand and Australia given
the differing cyclical positions of these economies.

• The Iran war represents a negative terms of trade shock – in the near term, more
than negating the impact of the strong trend in export commodity prices – and
will likely keep the NZD in check until uncertainty about the war reduces.
• Soft economic growth and lingering excess capacity compared to similar
economies will also weigh on the NZD for some time yet.
• The risk of a further leg down in the NZD/AUD can’t be ruled out if the RBNZ lags
the global tightening cycle, perhaps because growth underperforms even our

reduced expectations.
• The NZD will continue to be the key shock absorber helping cushion the
New Zealand economy from the Iran war shock. Over the medium term, a
further weakening of the USD – which remains overvalued in our view – should
lend support to the NZD.
NZD/USD and US dollar index
70
80
90
100
110
120
1300.30
0.40
0.50
0.60
0.70
0.80
0.90
2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
NZD/USD Index
NZD/USD (left axis)
US dollar index (right axis, inverted)

Sources: RBNZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts
“ The NZD should remain weak while uncertainty
around the war and its impact on the economy
remains high.”
NZD/AUD and 2-yr swap differential
0.75
0.80
0.85
0.90
0.95
1.00
1.05
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
2010 2013 2016 2019 2022 2025 2028
NZ - AU 2yr swap differential
(left axis)
NZD/AUD (right axis)
bps NZD/AUD
Sources: Macrobond, Westpac
Forecasts

===== Page 289 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
19
THE ECONOMY
IN EIGHT CHARTS
House prices
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 2028
% yr% qtr
Quarterly % change (left axis)
Annual % change (right axis)
Sources: REINZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts
GDP growth
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 2028
% yr% qtr
Quarterly % change (left axis)
Annual average % change (right axis)
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Westpac

forecasts
Terms of trade and net exports
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
800
900
1000
1100
1200
1300
1400
2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030
SNA terms of trade
Net exports, volume (rhs)
Net exports, value (rhs)
Index $bn
ForecastFour quarter running totals
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Unemployment and wage growth
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 2028
% yr%
Unemployment rate (left axis)
Labour cost index (right axis)
Westpac

forecasts
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac

===== Page 290 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
20
THE ECONOMY
IN EIGHT CHARTS CONT.
Exchange rates
50
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
0.40
0.50
0.60
0.70
0.80
0.90
1.00
1.10
2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025 2027
Index
NZD/USD (left axis)
NZD/AUD (left axis)
TWI (right axis)
Sources: Macrobond, Westpac Westpac
forecasts
NZD exchange rate
Official Cash Rate, 2-year and 5-year swap rates
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2015 2017 2019 2021 2023 2025 2027 2029
%%
Official Cash Rate

2 year swap rate
5 year swap rate
Sources: Bloomberg,
RBNZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts
Inflation components
-3
0
3
6
9
-3
0
3
6
9
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 2028
% yr% yr
Non-tradables inflation
Tradables inflation
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac
Westpac
forecasts
Consumer price inflation
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2008 2012 2016 2020 2024 2028
% yr% yr
Sources: Stats NZ, Westpac Westpac
forecasts
RBNZ target range

===== Page 291 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
21
ECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL FORECASTS
New Zealand forecasts
Economic indicators Quarterly % change Annual % change
Dec-25 Mar-26 Jun-26 Sep-26 2024 2025 2026 2027
GDP 0.2 0.8 -0.3 0.4 -1.6 1.3 1.5 3.2
GDP (annual average) - - - - -0.3 0.2 1.3 2.7
Consumer price index 0.6 0.9 1.8 1.2 2.2 3.1 4.4 1.6
Employment change 0.5 0.1 0.1 0.1 -1.3 0.2 0.6 2.9
Unemployment rate 5.4 5.3 5.4 5.5 5.1 5.4 5.6 4.9
Labour cost index (all sectors) 0.4 0.5 0.6 0.7 3.3 2.0 2.5 2.3

Current account balance (% of GDP) -3.7 -3.8 -4.0 -4.1 -4.7 -3.7 -4.1 -4.2
Terms of trade 0.3 -1.9 0.6 2.6 8.9 3.5 1.0 3.3
House price index -0.4 0.4 -0.3 -1.3 -1.0 -0.1 -0.9 2.0
Financial forecasts End of quarter End of year
Dec-25 Mar-26 Jun-26 Sep-26 2024 2025 2026 2027
90 day bank bill 2.52 2.51 2.50 2.95 4.45 2.52 3.40 4.45
2 year swap 2.71 3.12 3.75 4.05 3.64 2.71 4.30 4.35
5 year swap 3.27 3.71 4.10 4.30 3.73 3.27 4.35 4.45
10 year bond 4.27 4.54 4.85 4.95 4.50 4.27 5.00 5.10

TWI 66.4 67.2 66.5 66.2 69.5 66.4 69.1 72.7
NZD/USD 0.57 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.59 0.57 0.62 0.67
NZD/AUD 0.87 0.85 0.82 0.82 0.91 0.87 0.85 0.91
NZD/EUR 0.49 0.50 0.50 0.50 0.55 0.49 0.52 0.55
NZD/GBP 0.43 0.44 0.44 0.43 0.46 0.43 0.45 0.48

===== Page 292 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
22
ECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL FORECASTS CONT.
New Zealand forecasts
Fiscal indicators June years
2024 2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
Core Crown tax revenue ($bn) 133 134 137 144 155 166 177
- % of GDP 30.7 31.7 30.8 30.2 30.1 30.8 31.5
Core Crown spending ($bn) 139 142 148 155 161 169 176
- % of GDP 31.7 33.0 32.6 32.8 32.1 31.0 30.1
OBEGALx (i.e., excluding ACC) ($bn) -8.8 -9.3 -13.2 -12.7 -7.6 -3.1 0.1
- % of GDP -2.1 -2.1 -2.9 -2.7 -1.5 -0.6 0.0

Net core Crown debt ($bn) 175 182 196 222 240 253 262
- % of GDP 41.7 41.9 43.2 46.5 47.2 46.9 46.0
International economic forecasts
Real GDP (calendar years) Annual average % change
2023 2024 2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
Australia 2.1 1.0 2.0 1.8 1.2 2.4
China 5.4 5.0 5.0 4.7 4.6 4.4
United States 2.9 2.8 2.1 2.0 1.8 1.9
Japan 0.7 -0.2 1.2 0.6 0.8 0.9
East Asia ex China 3.4 4.5 4.7 4.3 4.2 4.1
India 7.2 7.1 7.6 6.5 6.7 6.6
Euro zone 0.5 0.9 1.5 0.7 1.1 1.5

United Kingdom 0.3 1.1 1.4 0.8 1.1 1.5
NZ trading partners 3.0 3.0 3.2 2.8 2.7 2.9
World 3.3 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.3 3.3

===== Page 293 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
23
ECONOMIC AND
FINANCIAL FORECASTS CONT.
Interest rates and exchange rates
CPI Interest rates Exchange rates
Annual % OCR 90-day bill 2 year swap 5 year swap USD Index NZ TWI NZD/USD NZD/AUD NZD/GBP NZD/EUR NZD/CNY NZD/JPY
Mar-26 3.1 2.25 2.51 3.12 3.71 98.4 67.2 0.59 0.85 0.44 0.50 4.08 92.5
Jun-26 4.4 2.25 2.50 3.75 4.10 97.9 66.5 0.59 0.82 0.44 0.50 4.01 93.2
Sep-26 4.5 2.50 2.95 4.05 4.30 97.6 66.2 0.59 0.82 0.43 0.50 3.98 92.0

Dec-26 4.4 3.00 3.40 4.30 4.35 96.7 69.1 0.62 0.85 0.45 0.52 4.15 95.5
Mar-27 4.0 3.50 3.75 4.40 4.40 95.9 70.2 0.64 0.87 0.46 0.53 4.19 96.5
Jun-27 2.1 3.75 4.00 4.40 4.45 95.1 71.8 0.66 0.89 0.47 0.54 4.26 98.3
Sep-27 1.6 4.00 4.25 4.40 4.45 94.2 72.5 0.67 0.90 0.48 0.55 4.29 98.4
Dec-27 1.6 4.25 4.45 4.35 4.45 93.9 72.7 0.67 0.91 0.48 0.55 4.29 97.8
Mar-28 1.4 4.25 4.45 4.30 4.45 94.0 72.3 0.67 0.91 0.48 0.55 4.24 96.1
Jun-28 1.7 4.25 4.45 4.25 4.40 93.8 72.0 0.67 0.91 0.47 0.55 4.22 94.4

Sep-28 2.0 4.25 4.40 4.20 4.40 93.8 71.5 0.66 0.91 0.47 0.55 4.17 92.8
Dec-28 2.1 4.00 4.15 4.15 4.35 93.6 71.3 0.66 0.90 0.47 0.55 4.19 91.1

===== Page 294 =====

of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).
References to the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the
directors, employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know.
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy Policy here, or the Australian
Group Privacy Statement here. Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we

document are predictive in character. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that the
assumptions on which the forecasts are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected
by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate
outcomes may differ substantially from these forecasts.
times use technology to capture data about you to help us to better understand you and your
needs, including potentially for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and

offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or sell any financial instrument or to enter
into a legally binding contract. To the extent that this information contains any general advice,
it has been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice. Certain types
of transactions, including those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

Westpac or its related entities is under any obligation to update this information or correct
any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date. This information may contain
or incorporate by reference forward looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”,
“expect”, “intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”, “will”, “should”,
“shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are predictions of or indicate future events and

performance, nor are forecasts of future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to
ensure that the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the forecasts
may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The
ultimate outcomes may differ substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its
clients, the Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker,

===== Page 295 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
25
underwriter, distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect
to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the
performance of a financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client
in any financial instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based
on sources reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s
knowledge, they are not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain

inside information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to
influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability-related content: This material
may contain statements relating to environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These
are subject to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties, limitations,
risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data, scenarios, reporting and analysis on

which the statements rely. In particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and
there are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as well as uncertainty
around future related policy and legislation. Some material may include information derived
from publicly available sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability of the information. There

is a risk that the analysis, estimates, judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or
projections used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual outcomes to
differ materially from those expressed or implied. The ESG-related statements in this material
do not constitute advice, nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including as to the quality, accuracy

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No. 233714). You can access
Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or request a copy from your Westpac point of
contact. To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has been prepared
without taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which

products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
(“WNZL ”). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product.
WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential

Singapore laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore should contact
Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this
material. Westpac Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com. fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information

does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should
consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in
Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG
are available from www. westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457

141. This information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting
on it you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation.
Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac
is represented in Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its
members is limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as a federally licensed branch, regulated

by the Office of the Comptroller of the Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US
Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither registered
as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant registered with the US CFTC. The services
and products referenced above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westpac, is a

Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind
WCM other than as provided for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional investors in reliance on
the exemption from registration provided by Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not
subject to all of the independence and disclosure standards applicable to debt research

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the U.S. distributor of

===== Page 296 =====

Westpac New Zealand Economics
26
this communication and accepts responsibility for the contents of this communication.
Transactions by U.S. customers of any securities referenced herein should be effected through
WCM. All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If you would like
to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned herein, please contact WCM on +1 212
389 1269. Investing in any non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in

this communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S. issuers may not be
registered with, or be subject to the regulations of, the SEC in the United States. Information on
such non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S. companies
may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and regulatory requirements comparable
to those in effect in the United States. The value of any investment or income from any

securities or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars is
subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may have a positive or adverse effect on the value of
or income from such securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified
as a research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-
dealer under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules

or regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are
solely those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by
Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority
(FCA) and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586). The

London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the
United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s
London branch by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to,
the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to
and is directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals

(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion)
Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth
companies, unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other
persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any
persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being referred

to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or rely on
this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the information contained in
this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and “professional clients” as
defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.
Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this communication to any

third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i)
Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.
WEG has not edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its
regulation. WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche

Bundesbank’). WEG is registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483. In accordance with APRA’s
Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind
WEG other than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation
and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent

‘investment recommendation’ and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an
investment’, both as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable in the
United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant provisions of MAR, reasonable care
has been taken to ensure that the material has been objectively presented and that interests
or conflicts of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which that
information relates have been disclosed.

certain additional information requirements of MAR and associated delegated legislation and
by accepting this communication you acknowledge that you are aware of the existence of such
additional disclosure and its contents.
To the extent this communication comprises an investment recommendation it is classified as
non-independent research. It has not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements
designed to promote the independence of investment research and therefore constitutes a

marketing communication. Further, this communication is not subject to any prohibition on
dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research.

===== Page 297 =====

Westpac Banking Corporation.

===== Page 298 =====

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
Forecasts qtr average latest*** Jun-26 Sep-26 Dec-26 Mar-27 Jun-27 Sep-27 Dec-27
iron ore fines 62% fe spot US$/t 112 106 102 97 90 84 83 83
iron ore fines contracts (US¢ dltu) 138 160 160 150 140 130 130 130
Aust. hard coking coal (USD/t) 180 184 182 178 178 179 180 181

coking premium low vol USD/t 231 232 223 207 201 202 204 205
coking coal 64 mid vol USD/t 180 184 182 178 178 179 180 181
coking coal low vol PCI USD/t 155 158 150 144 145 147 149 151
coking coal semi soft USD/t 142 142 130 124 125 127 129 130
steam coal fob Newcastle (USD/t) 141 145 140 125 120 121 122 123
coal thermal contracts (USD/t) 160 127 116 116 116 121 132 132
crude oil WTI NYMEX  (USD/bbl) 95 101 93 82 79 74 71 65
crude oil Brent  (USD/bbl) 104 110 100 87 84 77 73 67

LNG Japan Corp (Aust) USDmmbtu 17.01 18.3 22.5 21.5 17.7 16.5 15.0 13.0
gold (USD/oz) 4,682 4,750 4,880 4,980 5,000 4,970 4,920 4,870
aluminium (USD/t) 3,560 3,610 3,730 3,930 4,000 3,900 3,720 3,550
copper (USD/t) 13,236 13,050 13,200 13,320 13,350 13,280 13,180 12,610
nickel (USD/t) 19,179 18,400 18,600 18,300 18,100 17,900 17,700 17,200
zinc (USD/t) 3,408 3,390 3,380 3,390 3,390 3,380 3,360 3,090
lead (USD/t) 1,974 1,950 1,950 1,940 1,940 1,910 1,830 1,620

AUD/USD 0.72 0.71 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74
Forecasts qtr average Mar–28 Jun–28 Sep–28 Dec–28 Mar–29 Jun–29 Sep–29 Dec–29 Mar–30
iron ore fines 62% fe spot US$/t 84 85 85 86 86 87 87 88 89
iron ore fines contracts (US¢ dltu) 130 130 130 130 130 130 130 140 140
Aust. hard coking coal (USD/t) 183 184 185 186 188 189 190 191 193
coking premium low vol USD/t 206 208 209 211 212 213 215 216 218
coking coal 64 mid vol USD/t 183 184 185 186 188 189 190 191 193

coking coal low vol PCI USD/t 154 156 158 160 162 164 167 169 171
coking coal semi soft USD/t 131 132 133 134 135 136 138 140 142
steam coal fob Newcastle (USD/t) 123 124 125 126 126 127 128 129 129
coal thermal contracts (USD/t) 132 129 124 124 124 124 126 126 126
crude oil WTI NYMEX  (USD/bbl) 61 59 57 57 59 63 64 65 65
crude oil Brent ICE  (USD/bbl) 63 61 59 59 61 65 66 67 67
LNG Japan Corp (Aust) USDmmbtu 12.2 11.5 10.5 10.4 9.8 9.5 10.0 10.3 10.4

gold (USD/oz) 4,750 4,500 4,360 4,360 4,460 4,600 4,660 4,680 4,710
aluminium (USD/t) 3,400 3,320 3,270 3,220 3,170 3,260 3,320 3,340 3,360
copper (USD/t) 12,280 12,050 11,820 12,040 12,700 13,660 14,140 14,350 14,560
nickel (USD/t) 16,300 15,800 15,600 15,700 16,300 17,200 17,600 17,800 17,900
zinc (USD/t) 2,930 2,830 2,730 2,720 2,790 2,900 2,950 2,960 2,970
lead (USD/t) 1,510 1,450 1,380 1,370 1,410 1,470 1,500 1,500 1,510
AUD/USD 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73

# Chain weighted index: weights are Australian export shares. * Average Australian export prices fob – Source ABS 5432.0 Merchandise Trade Exports. ** WCFI – Westpac commodities futures index. *** Weekly
averages except for the Bulks Index. ^ AWEX market prices. Sources for all tables: Westpac Economics, Bloomberg, ABS.
WESTPAC COMMODITY FORECASTS
This information is current as at 8 May 2026

===== Page 299 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 300 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the
Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated

in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may
otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being referred
to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person
should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents.
In the same way, the information contained in this communication is
intended for “eligible counterparties” and “professional clients” as
defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not

intended for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from
passing on the information in this communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)

and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin
and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-

participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG
and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution

or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.
This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

===== Page 301 =====

THE RED
BOOK
May 2026
Quarterly update on the Australian consumer

===== Page 302 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
2
CONTENTS
Overview 3
Quick run-down 4
Consumer mood: shocked 5
Special topics
Early signals from Westpac data 7
Historical fuel price surges 9
Sentiment indicators
Spending: sharp reversal 11
Interest rates: fears realised 13
Inflation: here we go again 14
Durables: aborted upturn 15
Dwellings: watch this space 16

House prices: expectations still hot 17
Risk aversion: impact still to come 18
Job security: sectoral concerns 19
The Westpac Red Book report is produced by Westpac
Economics.
Editor: Matthew Hassan
Internet: www.westpac.com.au
Email: economics@westpac.com.au
This issue was finalised on 5 May 2026.
The next issue will be published 24 July 2026.
State snapshot: Western Australia 20
Summary and forecast tables
Economic and financial forecasts 21
Consumer data and forecasts 23

westpaciq.com.au

===== Page 303 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
3
OVERVIEW
The landscape has shifted dramatically
since our January report with consumers
now facing a significant cost-of-living shock
centred on sharply higher energy costs and
a further round of interest rate rises.
The US-Israel conflict with Iran that began
on February 28 has effectively blocked
15% of oil and gas supply. An associated oil

price spike has driven a sharp jump in local
fuel costs, a 33% rise in the March month
worth 1ppt of total spending. A temporary
halving in fuel excise tax has provided some
relief since then but prices are expected to
remain elevated through to year end (see
here for our latest assessment).
This fuel price shock is coinciding with
renewed rate rises from the RBA. The three
25bp increases in February, March and May
mainly reflected concerns about a pre-crisis

lift in inflation, the ‘trimmed mean’ CPI
tracking above the Bank’s 2-3%yr target
band since late 2025. As the energy shock
filters through, we expect this measure to
see a further lift to 4%yr, holding at this
pace through to the end of 2026.
The high starting point for inflation means
there is a material risk that the energy price
surge feeds into a shift in expectations,
affecting wage and price setting decisions
and leading to persistently high inflation.

These concerns were an additional factor
in the RBA’s decision to raise the cash rate
by another 25bps at its May meeting. More
moves are likely to be required to contain
inflation risks: Westpac expects two more
25bp hikes in coming months.
This is clearly a difficult an alarming
situation for consumers. Sentiment has
already been hit hard, April recording one
of the biggest monthly falls on record. Our
Westpac Card Tracker – the most timely
read on spending trends in Australia –

suggests spending moderated in the March
quarter (see here). Our Westpac Consumer
Panel shows that the initial response in
March was associated with a slowdown in
savings flows. Importantly, the card data
suggests April has seen a move to outright
weakness, non-fuel spending tracking flat
or down slightly despite the temporary
halving in fuel excise tax.
The bottom line is that prices, interest
rates and tax increases are again
outstripping incomes and that there is a

limit to how much savings can be used to
keep up. The ‘cost of living crisis’ sequel
may not be a re-run of the 2022-24 horror
show – when prices shot up 13% over
two years and interest rates rose 4ppts
– but it is clearly shaping as another very
challenging time for consumers.
Under the pump again
-7
-5
-3
-1
1
3
5
7
9
-7
-5
-3
-1
1
3
5
7
9
Dec-00 Dec-05 Dec-10 Dec-15 Dec-20 Dec-25
ann% ann%
real consumer spending
real consumer spending per capita

Sources: ABS , Westpac Economics
*note that annual growth rates are
shown in rolling year average terms
to reduce COVID -related volatility
long run avg
Westpac f/c
to Dec-28
qtly%ch
(real per capita)
Jun-20
off scale:
-13%
1. Consumer spending: renewed squeeze
“The ‘cost of living crisis’ sequel may not be a re-
run of the 2022-24 horror show ... but it is clearly
shaping as another very challenging time for
consumers.”

===== Page 304 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
4
The Westpac–Melbourne Institute
Consumer Sentiment Index fell heavily
in April, declining 12.5% to 80.1, having
drifted slightly lower through February and
March.
The April fall was the biggest monthly
decline since COVID and takes the Index
near historical lows, albeit above the
extremes seen at the onset of the pandemic

and during the recessions of the early
1990s and 1980s.
All Index components deteriorated sharply
in the April month but the biggest falls
were across components tracking ‘current
conditions’. This clearly reflects the sharp
spike in average pump prices for fuel, the
rise in dollar terms the biggest on record
and the percentage change comparable
to the spike during the 1979 oil crisis.
Assessments also reflect the RBA’s interest
rate rises in February and March.

Risk aversion was holding at elevated levels
ahead of the April shock. The Westpac Risk
Aversion Index was 48 in March, in line
with the 49.1 in December – up marginally
from the 47.2 average over the previous
year and half but below the 51-59 range
seen during 2022-23. Aversion has likely
risen further since March.
The sentiment mix suggests spending
momentum has weakened materially. CSI±,
a modified indicator that correlates well with
per capita spending, points to a shift back to

outright contraction in coming quarters.
Consumer interest rate expectations
continue to weigh on overall expectations.
The Westpac-Melbourne Institute
Mortgage Rate Expectations Index rose
3.9% to 177.2 in April, returning to recent
cycle highs. Amongst those with a view,
just over 80% of consumers expect
mortgage rates to increase over the year
ahead (noting that this was prior to the
RBA’s 25bp cash rate increase in early May).
The ‘time to buy a major item’ index

dropped 15% in April to 83.3. This
component has been particularly sensitive
to ‘cost of living’ pressures in recent years.
The decline takes the sub-index towards,
but still slightly above, the very weak
75–80 range seen in 2022–24.
Homebuyer sentiment bucked the wider
softening trend in the April month but
remains at very pessimistic levels. The
‘time to buy a dwelling’ index rose 3.5% in
the April month but was still down 4.3%
vs January, coming off a new cycle low in

March. At 85.8 the Index is still more than
33pts below the long-run average of 120.
Consumers are becoming much less bullish
on the outlook for house prices. The
Westpac–Melbourne Institute Consumer
House Price Expectations Index posted a
sharp 10.2% fall to 153.5. That said, price
expectations are still relatively positive, the
Index well above the long-run average of
130. Over two-thirds of those with a view
expect prices to increase over the next year.

The April sentiment shock had a notably
deeper impact on consumers’ labour
market expectations than the weakness
seen during the 2022-24 ‘cost of living’
crisis. The Westpac–Melbourne Institute
Unemployment Expectations Index jumped
9.7% to 147.8 to be up 14% over the 3mths
to April (recalling that higher reads are a
deterioration that means more consumers
expect unemployment to rise over the year
ahead). Expectations are now materially
above the long run average of 129.

Quick run-down

===== Page 305 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
5
THE CONSUMER MOOD
• The inflation and interest rate concerns
that had been weighing on sentiment
around the turn of the year have given
way to more acute and immediate
shock from a sharp rise in global
energy costs.
• The US-Israel conflict with Iran that
began on February 28 has seen major
disruptions to global energy supply.

Sentiment has pulled back as the
resulting spike in fuel prices has
combined with a further re-tightening
in interest rates and growing risks
that a wider inflation threat will see
additional rate hikes in the months
ahead.
• The Westpac Melbourne Institute Index
of Consumer Sentiment dropped 12.5%
in the April month to be down 13.7%
vs January. April marked the biggest
monthly decline since COVID.
• At 80.1, the Index is back near historical
lows, albeit slightly above the low

recorded during the 2022-24 ‘cost of
living’ crisis (78) and the GFC (79) and
some way above the extreme lows seen
at the onset of the pandemic (75.6)
and during the recessions of the early
1990s (64.6) and early 1980s (75.5).
• Average pump prices hit $2.40/litre in
the first week of April, up 37¢ from
the time of the March survey and 77¢
compared to early February. This is
easily the biggest two-month rise in the
history of the survey, which goes back

to 1973, with the increase in percentage
terms comparable to the 50% annual
rise recorded during the 1979 oil
crisis (see below for a more detailed
discussion of how the current episode
compares to previous fuel price shocks).
• Note that the April survey was taken
after the Federal government’s
temporary halving in fuel excise tax
came into effect on April 1, the 26¢/litre
reduction contributing to a 12¢/litre
decline in average pump prices in the

first week of the month.
• The interest rate backdrop has also
been moving, the RBA raising the
cash rate by 25bps on February 3, and
another 25bps on March 17.
• The April survey was in the field three
weeks after the second move but was
conducted before the RBA’s third
25bp hike on May 5. The May survey
will be in the field during the week of
the Federal budget, with results to be
released on May 19.
Shocked
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
60
70
80

90
100
110
120
130
Apr-91 Apr-96 Apr-01 Apr-06 Apr-11 Apr-16 Apr-21 Apr-26
index index
Sources: Melbourne Institute, Westpac Economics
*thin dotted lines show ±1 standard  deviation
avg
2. Consumer sentiment crashes
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
Apr-17 Apr-22 Apr-17 Apr-22 Apr-17 Apr-22
std. devn std. devn
family finances
economy
last 12mths
Source: Melbourne Institute,
Westpac Economics
next 12mths  next 5yrs
*shown as standard deviations
from long run average, 3mth avg,

dotted lines are monthly obs
3. Consumer sentiment: finances, economic conditions

===== Page 306 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
6
THE CONSUMER MOOD
• Component-wise, the biggest falls
in the April month were across sub-
indexes tracking current conditions,
the ‘finances vs a year ago’ sub-index
plunging 16.7% to 66.8 and the ‘time to
buy a major item’ sub-index down 15%
to 83.3. Both levels are extremely low
but still a touch above the averages

recorded between September 2022 and
June 2024 (65 and 81 respectively).
• Near-term expectations also fell
sharply, the ‘finances, next 12mths’
sub-index down 13.9% to 84 and the
‘economy, next 12mths’ sub-index down
12.4% to 75.3. While the falls were not
quite as severe as for current conditions,
these components have deteriorated
by more vs 2025. The ‘economy, next
5 years’ sub-index recorded a more
moderate 5.1% decline to 91.4.
• The April shock was broadly based

with 90 of the 100-odd sub-groups we
track recording declines. Falls were
particularly pronounced amongst
those living in regional areas (–16%
to 73) and working in the recreational
services, manufacturing and
construction sectors – all of which have
higher exposure to rising energy costs
and/or cyclical swings in activity.
• Chart 4 and Table 5 provide some
longer term historical perspectives on
energy price shocks. Over the history of
the survey there have now been eight

episodes of sharply rising fuel costs, five
emanating from developments in the
Middle East. Durations have tended to
be shorter in recent decades, particularly
compared to the extended disruptions
during the 1970s and early 1980s.
In real, inflation-adjusted terms the
magnitude of the current oil price shock
is materially larger than those seen since
1980 but smaller than the 1970s shocks.
• Wider economic circumstances also
vary. The early 1990s shock for example

hit just as the economy was moving off
recession lows, while the 2022 shock
came on top of a global supply chain
disruption that was generating a wider
rise in prices. The interest rate context
also differs, as does the response,
particularly in the 1970s and 1980s
when today’s independent inflation-
targeting central bank regime was
not yet in place. Economies have also
become less fuel dependent over time.
• Sentiment-wise, the current shock is,

so far, comparable to 2022 and 2005,
putting it at the lower end of the range.
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
-6 -3 0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30
indexindex
1973 Oil embargo
1978 Iran revolution
1980 Iran-Iraq war
1982 AUD devaluation
1990 Iraq invasion of Kuwait
2005 Hurricane Katrina
2022 Russian invasion of Ukraine
2026 Iran war
Sources: Melbourne Institute, Westpac Economics
* rebased to 100 = 3mth average prior to
energy pric e shock; observations run from

six months prior to shock to six months
after USD oil price peaks in real terms.
months
4. Consumer sentiment: historical oil shocks
Iran war
Russian
invasion of
Ukraine
Hurricane
Katrina
Iraq
invasion of
Kuwait
AUD de-
valuation
Iran-Iraq
war
Iran
revolution
Oil
embargo
20262022200519901982198019781973onset
> 23936121224duration (months)
maximum variation, %*
60343941213121161oil (real US$/bbl)
25142421917468auto fuel (real AUD)
-13-24-193-12-1-11-15consumer sentiment

consumption, real per capita, change in annual growth following shock*
n.a.-0.3-1.2-2.5-5.1-0.1-2.4-3.3total
n.a.-0.7-7.5-4.9-4.9-6.8-0.6n.a.– operation vehicles
n.a.1.3-0.7-2.6-5.60.1-2.7n.a.– other consumption
n.a.NNYYNNYAustralian recession ^
Source: ABS, Bloomberg, Melbourne Institute, Westpac Economics* peak/low in period compared to average six months prior to shock.
5. Historical oil shocks: selected measures

===== Page 307 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
7
Early signals from Westpac data
• Consumers are at the forefront of the
energy shock. The sentiment picture
is already clear but the ‘real world’
effects on activity are only just starting
to appear. The Westpac-DataX Card
Tracker and Westpac-DataX Consumer
Panel provide the timeliest reads on
how spending, income and saving

patterns look to be evolving.
• Our Westpac–DataX Card Tracker draws
on the seven million credit and debit
card transactions that pass through
the Westpac system every day. This
rich information source now has data
covering most of April. Latest updates
show a complex mix of factors at work
but with clearer signs of a slowing in
discretionary spend starting to emerge
(see here for our latest full report).
• Quarterly growth momentum remains
subdued, holding at a 1% pace as at

late April, down a touch on the 1.2%
gain in Q1 and materially slower than
the 2% average over the previous three
quarters. However, that steady headline
conceals a big lift in fuel and a notable
slowing in non-fuel activity, the latter
tracking a much slower 0.5%qtr pace,
implying an outright contraction in real
per capita terms.
• Chart 6 unpacks this detail a bit more.
It shows levels and growth rates across
three segments: ‘operation of motor

vehicles’ (dominated by fuel); electricity,
gas & other; and the remaining 90% of
card activity (all figures are seasonally
adjusted). It highlights another factor
in play, the end of electricity rebates
which has seen a large rise in this
component in the first three months of
2026 (up 9.3%qtr and 17%yr).
• Excluding this and the fuel, growth
across ‘non energy’ segments has
shown a clearer moderation. This even
looks to have tipped into outright

declines over the last six weeks,
although this may be partly due to
residual seasonal effects from the
Easter period (this moving holiday is
more difficult for seasonal adjustment
packages to pinpoint).
• Chart 7 unpacks this broad ‘non-energy’
category into: essentials, discretionary
goods and discretionary services. It
shows there has been an outright
stalling in discretionary services, growth
now just 0.1%qtr. The segment has also
seen a more dramatic weakening over

the last six weeks (albeit with the same
Easter caveats still applying).
-5
0
5
10
15
20
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
Jul-25 Oct-25 Jan-26 Apr-26 Jun-26 Jul-25 Oct-25 Jan-26 Apr-26
%chgindex
operation of motor vehicles (8.5%)
electricity, gas & other fuels (1.7%)
other card activity (90%) Source: Westpac Group
* 2025 avg = 100;
seasonally adjusted,
rolling 8wk avg
levels* growth^
Iran
conflict +17
+0.7
last 6w ks vs
prev 6w ks
(qtly pace)
avg last

6wks
^ %chg, rolling 12wks
vs prev 12wks; –1.9
Iran
conflict
6. Westpac-DataX Card Tracker: fuel, electricity and other
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
99
100
101
102
103
104
105
106
Jul-25 Oct-25 Jan-26 Apr-26 Jun-26 Jul-25 Oct-25 Jan-26 Apr-26 Jun-26
%chgindex
essentials excl. fuel & elect. (42%)
discretionary goods (26%)
discretionary services (32%) Source: Westpac Group
* 2025 avg = 100;
seasonally adjusted,
rolling 8wk avg
levels* growth^
Iran
conflict

–0.8–0.8
last 6w ks vs
prev 6w ks
(qtly pace)
avg last
6wks
^ %chg, rolling 12wks
vs prev 12wks; –3.5
Iran
conflict
7. Westpac-DataX Card Tracker: non energy categories
SPECIAL TOPIC

===== Page 308 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
8
• The source card data provides more
granular detail down to a narrower
‘fuel’ sub-category level with both
the number and value of transactions
available by sub-region. Chart 8 shows
how the pattern of activity compares
to a year ago for the 8wks prior to the
shock, the first 4wks of the crisis and
the second 4wks of the crisis.

• Nationally, coming into the shock,
fuel transactions were down 4%yr
on lower volumes. Over the first four
weeks they were up 32%yr, 11ppts
of which came from an increase in
the number of transaction with the
remaining 21pts due to higher average
transaction values, a proxy for fuel
prices. Transaction volumes settled
down in the second four weeks, up only
1.6%yr but with the contribution from
average transaction values still very
high at +19pts.

• This volume effect is almost certainly a
‘pull-forward’ in buying as consumers
became concerned about further
sharp price rises and a lack of supply,
with many stations running dry at the
time. It looks to have been particularly
pronounced in Qld, Tas and in regional
areas.
• The Westpac-DataX Consumer Panel
provides some additional colour around
the spending, income and savings
flows. The Panel draws on account
information across over 1 million

customers with monthly updates now
available to March (see here).
• The key take-outs are similar to
the card data with big shifts in the
March month and softening evident
in discretionary services. The ‘heat
map’ in Chart 9 shows the contribution
to spending growth by different
categories, the final column showing
the March month and columns showing
rolling 3mth averages (all figures are
seasonally adjusted). For March, fuel
is up sharply, with a fall in air travel

and public transport costs seeing a
big decline in transport ex fuel. Basic
food is also up strongly but looks to be
switching from restaurants & hotels.
• The Panel detail shows spending
across ‘non-energy’ categories has
been softer amongst consumers that
have higher energy costs relative to
total spend. It also shows savings were
not actively drawn down in Q1 but
that the pace of accumulation slowed
materially.
-10
0
10
20
30
40
-10
0
10
20
30

40
1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3 1 2 3
Aus NSW Vic Qld SA WA Tas capital
cities
regional
areas
%yr %yr avg value number Source: Westpac Group
1: 8wks prior to conﬂict
2: 1st 4wks of conﬂict
3: 2nd 4wks of conﬂict
8. Westpac-DataX Card Tracker: fuel transactions
9. Westpac-DataX Consumer Panel: spending ‘heat map’
SPECIAL TOPIC

===== Page 309 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
9
Historical fuel price surges
• While we wait for the energy shock
impacts to play out, what can we tell
from history? In this section we give
a quick overview of longer run trends
in consumer spending on fuel and the
impact of previous price shocks.
• As noted on p6, there have now been
eight significant fuel price shocks since

the early 1970s. The largest of these
have been from global energy shocks,
namely: the oil embargo in 1973; the
Iranian revolution in 1979; the Iran–Iraq
war in the early 1980s; Iraq’s invasion
of Kuwait in 1990; Hurricane Katrina in
2005; Russia’s invasion of Ukraine in
2022; and the current crisis in Iran.
• The different scales and economic
contexts make these episodes difficult
to compare. Comparisons over longer
time horizons also need to allow for

changes in energy intensity and the
shrinking share of fuel in total consumer
spend.
• Chart 10 shows ABS estimates of per
capita spending on ‘operation of motor
vehicles’ in real, inflation-adjusted terms
going back to the mid-1970s. Currently,
fuel accounts for just over a third of this
category which also covers servicing,
insurance and tolls (see Chart 12).
• Measured in today’s dollars, average
spend has risen from $450 a quarter
at the start of the period to a peak of

around $760 in the early 2010s to just
over $580 currently.
• As discussed in our last Red Book, the
long structural up-trend during the
first forty years reflects strong growth
in the vehicle stock as the progressive
removal of tariffs and a secular decline
in inflation and interest rates drove a
big improvement in affordability.
• The down-trend over the decade since
then reflects slower trend growth in
the vehicle stock and a one-off change
in the prevalence of ‘work from home’

arrangements post-COVID. The take-
up of electric vehicles (EVs) has had a
more marginal impact but is likely to
become more prominent in the years
ahead (noting that ‘operation of motor
vehicles’ will include the electricity
purchases required to power EVs).
• Chart 11 reveals that spend on vehicle
operation has declined materially as
a share of total. After peaking at 8%
in 1980, it has declined gradually, for
the most part, and currently sits 4.6%,

suggesting fuel more specifically is
1.5-2% of total consumer spend.
-30
-10
10
30
50
70
90
110
250
350
450
550
650
750
850
950
1975 1985 1995 2005 2015 2025
ann%chg
Sources: ABS, Westpac Economics
* shaded periods are
major fuel price shocks
sustained strong growth in vehicle stock due
to reduced tariff s and secular decline in
inflation and interest rates
Russian invasion
of  Ukraine
early 1980s
recession
early 1990s
recession
GFC
1970s oil
shocks

AUD
devaluation
Iran
war
COVID
Iraq invasion
of Kuwait
Hurricane
Katrina
slower growth in vehicle stock,
improved efficiency and post -
COVID shift to working
from home
qtly, real $ per capita
10. Australia: operation of motor vehicles, long history
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
0
2
4
6
8
10
1975 1985 1995 2005 2015 2025
ann ppt chg
Sources: ABS, Westpac Economics
* shaded periods are
major fuel price shocks
Russian invasion
of  Ukraine
early 1980s

recession
early 1990s
recession
GFC
1970s oil
shocks
AUD
devaluation
Iran
war
COVID
Iraq invasion
of Kuwait
Hurricane
Katrina
% total spend
11. Australia: operation of motor vehicles, detailed spending patterns
SPECIAL TOPIC

===== Page 310 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
10
• The 1970s oil price shocks were the
largest in real price terms and had
somewhat clearer impacts. Consumer
sentiment declined materially with
consumption growth slowing by 2.5–
3ppts, the wider economy ultimately
entering recessions in the mid-1970s
and early 1980s although in both
periods there were several other

factors at play.
• Energy shocks since then have been
milder (particularly when viewed in
real, inflation adjusted terms). There
are again extenuating circumstances
that limit their relevance to 2026:
the invasion of Kuwait came just as
the economy was moving into a deep
recession for mostly unrelated reasons;
the fuel price spike associated with
Hurricane Katrina was very short-lived;
and the 2022 spike was in the context
of a much larger and more pervasive

shock to global supply chains coming
out of COVID and an associated rapid
tightening in monetary policy.
• Consumption growth slowed sharply
through all of these episodes but it is
unclear how much of this was a direct
consequence of energy price effects.
• Notably, the spending detail shows
growth in fuel spend slowed by much
more than non-fuel spend in real terms
in 1990 and 2015 but by considerably
less in 2022 (suggesting wider cost
pressures and interest rate changes

were the more substantive driver of the
most recent slowdown).
• Consumer exposures to fuel price
shocks differ significantly across
different parts of Australia (see here).
NSW and Vic have a higher exposure to
the hit to consumer demand while Qld
and WA have significant offsets from
the boost to commodity exports.
• There are also differences in consumer
fuel consumption intensity with
‘operation of motor vehicles’ making
up a higher shore of consumer spend

in WA and Tas but a lower portion
in NSW. Shares of total spend have
also shown a more moderate trend
decline over time in SA and WA. Within
states there is also likely to be a big
difference in fuel consumption intensity
between city-dwellers than those living
regionally who have fewer non-driving
travel options and often face longer
average journeys.
petrol, 27
diesel, 4
other fuel
etc, 5
rego & insurance ,
25
parts &
accessories , 7
servicing
& repairs ,

12
licensing
& tolls,
20
total operation of vehicles, 2025: $66bn
> twice a week , 2
1-2 times a
week, 12
once a
week, 31
once a fortnight ,
37
once a
month, 14
< once a month , 5
Sources: ABS, Budget Direct, Westpac Economics
primary vehicle: refuelling frequency
12. Australia: operation of motor vehicles, detailed spending patterns
TasWASAQldVicNSWAus
2,4392,7392,3732,2292,4012,2172,356$ (annual)*
5.25.34.94.54.84.24.6% total spend
6.45.95.65.65.85.35.720yr avg

-1.7-4.7-3.6-3.8-2.9-2.2-3.1ann %chg
-1.00.0-0.2-0.9-1.2-0.7-0.720yr avg
626603641584608549584number of vehicles^
3,8954,5423,7003,8183,9474,0414,033$ per vehicle (annual)
197.0197.3194.1190.6189.0189.4190.8emission intensity#
Source: ABS, BITRE, FCAI, EV Council, NTC, Westpac Economics* per capita; ^ per 1000 people, number is as at March 2025; # avg grams of CO 2 per km.
13. Operation of motor vehicles: state
SPECIAL TOPIC

===== Page 311 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
11
Spending: sharp reversal
• Our CSI± composite combines sub-
indexes tracking views on ‘family
finances’ and ‘time to buy a major
item’ with the Westpac Consumer Risk
Aversion Index and usually provides a
good guide to trends in spending over
the next 3–6mths.
•  The composite has been of more
limited use in recent years due to both

the volatile spending around COVID
lock-downs and the nature of the
post-COVID cost-of-living shock to
sentiment. As such, the CSI± indicator
should be viewed as a directional guide
to where per capita spending growth
momentum is heading.
•  The CSI± indicator has been more
stable than wider sentiment in
recent months, mainly due to the risk
aversion component holding steady.
Nevertheless, at 71.5, it is still down
sharply from its January read of 82.9,

a fall of 13.7% that takes the indicator
well below its long run average of 100.
Chart 14 shows that this points to a
renewed contraction in real per capita
consumer spending, even allowing for
the positive wedge that has opened
up with CSI± and observed spending
growth over the last year.
• As discussed, the ‘hard’ data on actual
spending is only just starting to capture
the effects of the energy shock. Most
official figures instead speak more
to the consumer’s relatively robust

momentum coming into 2026.
• The Q4 national accounts were
something of a mixed bag, a 0.3%qtr
rise in consumption undershooting
expectations with growth slowing
slightly to 2.4%yr.
• That said, the detail suggested the
quarter saw a steadying rather than a
slowing in momentum, particularly once
a bigger-than-expected effect from
increased state electricity rebates is
excluded (an effect that will more than
reverse as rebates resume rolling off
in coming quarters). Vehicle purchases

also surprised significantly to the
downside, recording a 4.6%qtr drop,
reportedly due to a pull-forward in
registrations in Q3 to beat cost rises.
• Around incomes, the picture was
relatively solid. Nominal disposable
income rose 1.8%qtr, annual growth
moderating slightly to 6.9%yr but still
well above the pre-COVID 10yr avg of
4.3%yr.
-9
-6
-3
0
3
6
9
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
Dec-97 Dec-01 Dec-05 Dec-09 Dec-13 Dec-17 Dec-21 Dec-25
ann%index

CSI   (lhs)* consumer spend (rhs)^
Source: Melbourne Institute, ABS, Westpac Economics
±
*deviation from  long run avg, smoothed, adv. 6mths;
^real, per capita; note that annual growth rates are shown in
rolling year average terms to reduce COVID -related volatility
Westpac
forecast
April
14. CSI±  vs total consumer spending
-7
-5
-3
-1
1
3
5
7
9
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
Mar-06 Mar-10 Mar-14 Mar-18 Mar-22 Mar-26
ann%index
CSI   (lhs)* real retail sales per capita (rhs)^

Source: Melbourne Institute, ABS, Westpac Economics
±
* deviation from long run avg, smoothed
Westpac
forecast
April
15. CSI±  vs retail sales
SENTIMENT INDICATORS

===== Page 312 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
12
• The savings ratio lifted to 6.9%, from
6.1% in Q3 and 5.8% in Q2. This is the
highest ratio since mid-2022. Overall,
the mix suggests households were in
relatively good shape financially with
scope for lower savings to cushion
against future shocks.
• Of course, two shocks are now in play:
rate rises and a spike in fuel costs. As

discussed, our Westpac measures are
pointing to a moderation in nominal
spending growth. The 1.4%qtr rise in the
March CPI implies that both measures of
spend are likely flat or down slightly in
real, inflation-adjusted terms.
• That was not quite the signal from
the March ABS household spending
indicator. While it confirmed the
nominal signal from our Westpac data,
the real spending came in surprisingly
strong with a 0.7%qtr gain, down only
slightly from Q4’s 1%qtr rise. The ABS

has indicated that some of this is due
to differences in scope and the timing
of price changes for airfares captured
in the CPI vs the spending indicator
measures. It should also be noted
that Q4’s spending indicator gain was
much stronger than the spending rise
reported in the Q4 national accounts.
• Private sector business surveys broadly
are capturing some moderation but
are also likely to be more of a nominal
rather than real measure. Consumer

sector responses to the NAB business
survey remained soft in the first few
months of 2026.
• The ABS will publish full spending
estimates with the Q1 national accounts
update on June 3. We continue to expect
a 0.6%qtr gain largely due to the change
in electricity rebates, which will see a
sharp increase in out-of-pocket costs for
consumers. Spend ex fuel and electricity
is likely to be soft.
• Chart 17 summarises the main changes
to our forecasts since our February

report. Real household disposable
incomes are now expected to contract
1.2% this calendar year, rather than
increase 1.2% – the difference reflecting
higher prices and higher interest rates.
This is in turn sees spending growth
slow abruptly to 1.2%yr compared to
a relatively robust 2.5% gain expected
back in February. The path for savings
rates is largely unchanged, but the
modest decline cushioning an income
shock rather than sustaining solid
spending growth.

-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
Mar-14 Mar-17 Mar-20 Mar-23 Mar-26 Mar-14 Mar-17 Mar-20 Mar-23 Mar-26
net%net%
actual, last 3mths*
expected, next 3mths^
expected, next 12mths^
Source: NAB,
Westpac Economics
*rolling 3mth avg
^qtly, seasonally
adj’dby Westpac
retail consumer services
Apr
month
16. Business conditions: retail and consumer services
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
-1.5
-0.5
0.5
1.5
2.5
3.5
24 25 26f 27f 28f 24 25 26f 27f 28f 24 25 26f 27f 28f

income consumption savings rate (rhs)
%ann avg%
Feb latest
17. Income, consumption and savings forecasts
SENTIMENT INDICATORS

===== Page 313 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
13
Interest rates: fears realised
SENTIMENT INDICATORS
•  While the April sentiment drop was
mainly about the fuel price shock,
the broader weakening since late
last year has also been keying off
heightened rate rise fears – fears that
have been realised since February. The
Westpac–Melbourne Institute Mortgage

Rate Expectations Index, which tracks
consumer expectations for variable
mortgage rates over the next 12mths,
surged another 16% over the 3mths
to April. At 177.2, the Index is at new
cycle highs, albeit below the extremely
hawkish reads in late 2022/early 2023.
• The survey detail shows just over 81% of
consumers expect mortgage rates to rise
over the next 12 months. That compares
to 64% at the start of the year. About
40% of those with a view expect rates

to rise by over 1ppt. An interpolated
median, based on the distribution of
responses, sits at +76bps.
• The RBA raised rates by 25bps at its
both its February and March meetings
with a third back-to-back 25bp increase
also put through at its May meeting
(four weeks after the April sentiment
survey). Taken at face value, the April
responses suggest consumers expect
another two 25bp hikes.
• That said, the history of this survey
question shows a definite ‘tightening

bias’ to interest rate expectations.
Chart 18 shows sub-100 readings
– consistent with more consumers
expecting rates to fall rather than rise
– are rare over the 16 years that the
question has been run. Mapping index
reads to actual mortgage rate changes
suggests the latest reading is more in
line with one further 25bp rate hike.
• Our May survey, currently in the field,
will provide an important update on
interest rate expectations following
both the RBA’s May decision and the

Federal budget, which is due to be
released shortly after we go to press.
• The RBA’s post decision commentary
suggested they were hoping to have
some room to pause the tightening
cycle, given the rapid series of hikes.
Indeed, on balance, we now expect
the RBA to leave rates on hold at its
June meeting. However, we still expect
rising inflation and the threat of a lift
in inflation expectations feeding into
medium-term wage and price setting
behaviour to draw two further 25bp

hikes in August and September (see
here for our latest views).
50
70
90
110
130
150
170
190
210
50
70
90
110
130
150
170
190
210
Apr-10 Apr-12 Apr-14 Apr-16 Apr-18 Apr-20 Apr-22 Apr-24 Apr-26
indexindex
* expected change in standard variable mortgage rates, next 12mths;
Monthly obs from 2022, annual Feb and Aug obs from 2017-21,
annual  Feb, Jun, and Aug obs from 2011-17.
Source: Melbourne Institute, Westpac Economics
avg
18. Mortgage interest rate expectations

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Apr-23 Oct-23 Apr-24 Oct-24 Apr-25 Oct-25 Apr-26
%responses%responses rise >1% rise 0-1% no change fall 0-1% fall >1%
Source: Westpac -Melbourne Institute
19. Consumer expectations for mortgage rates

===== Page 314 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
14
Inflation: here we go again
SENTIMENT INDICATORS
•  The latest fuel price surge is already
feeding into both inflation and
consumer inflation expectations.
• The March CPI showed a 1.4% lift in
headline inflation, taking it to 4.1%yr
(see here). The ‘trimmed mean’
measure, which excludes the largest
price variations each period (such as

fuel in the latest quarter) posted a
milder 0.8%qtr lift to be up 3.5%yr.
• Consumer inflation expectations are
heavily influenced by fuel price moves
as these are one of the most visible
prices in the CPI basket, from the
perspective of both day to day lived
experience and media coverage.
• The Melbourne Institute’s ‘symmetric
mean’ measure of consumers’ year-
ahead inflation expectations jumped to
5.9% in April, up from 4.6% in January
and broadly comparable to the levels

seen in 2022-23 albeit below the peak
monthly read of 6.7% during that
period (shown in Chart 20).
• Scaling according to historical inflation
outcomes suggests expectations
are consistent with actual inflation
outcomes in the 4.5-5% range.
•   Consumer expectations for wages
provide a interesting contrast. Wage
expectations have held about steady,
tracking in the same range seen since
mid-2024 (Chart 21). While that is a
touch above the long run average, the

readings on both actual and expected
wages are still broadly consistent with
a slight moderation in wages growth.
• The Q4 update showed wage price
growth running at 3.4% over 2025
according to the ABS wage price index
(see here).
• The Q1 update is due on May 13,
shortly after we go to press. Also of
note, the annual award and minimum
wage decision is likely to be announced
by early June.
• The Melbourne Institute’s ‘symmetric
mean’ measure of consumers’ year–

ahead wage growth expectations held
at 1.3% in April, essentially unchanged
from January (albeit slightly firmer in
seasonally adjusted terms). The survey
measure of actual changes has drifted
slowly back to 1.2% from 1.5% at the
start of the year, having drifted slightly
higher into year-end. Both remain
above pre-COVID averages.
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Mar-05 Mar-08 Mar-11 Mar-14 Mar-17 Mar-20 Mar-23 Mar-26
ann%ann%
MI consumer inflation expectations*

CPI - headline
CPI - 'trimmed mean'
Source: Melbourne Institute, ABS, Westpac Economics
Westpac
forecast
* ‘symmetric trimmed mean’ measure,
scaled to the same basis as actual
‘trimmed mean’ CPI, 3mth avg
20. CPI Inflation: actual vs expected
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
Dec-01 Dec-04 Dec-07 Dec-10 Dec-13 Dec-16 Dec-19 Dec-22 Dec-25
ann%std devns
MI consumer wages, actual (lhs)*
MI consumer wages, expectations (lhs)*
wage cost index (rhs)*

Source: ABS, Westpac -Melbourne Institute
* seasonally adjusted , std devns from long run avg, rolling 3mth avg
latest
month
Westpac
forecast
21. Wages growth: actual vs expected

===== Page 315 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
15
Durables: aborted upturn
SENTIMENT INDICATORS
• The recovery in buyer sentiment that
was gaining momentum through much
of 2025 has been knocked back on its
heels by the re-emergence of inflation
and interest rate rises, with an added
dash of concern around jobs as well.
• The ‘time to buy a major item’ sub-

index dropped 15.9% over the three
months to April. At 83.3, the sub-index
is back near, albeit slightly above, the
very weak 75–80 range seen in 2022–
24. With a long run average of 123.5,
the latest sub-index read is still in the
bottom 5% of observations since the
survey began in the mid-1970s.
• Chart 22 suggests price moves are
again a direct consideration for purchase
sentiment. While the focus was on fuel,
the March CPI report showed a notable

lift in some durables prices, household
textiles, audio-visual equipment, vehicles
and renovation-related cost inflation all
relatively firm over the last year. On a
combined basis, annual inflation across
the ‘major item’ segments we track looks
to have lifted from the 0-0.5%yr range
to a little above 2%yr. That is a long way
from the 10% blow-out in 2022-23 but
may be adding to consumer concerns
about the price outlook.
• Note that, as with consumer spending

and sentiment more generally, there has
been a disconnect between sentiment
towards major purchases and actual
spend on ‘big ticket’ items. Over the year
to Q4 for example, combined per capita
spend across the segments we track has
risen 1.5%yr despite buyer sentiment
reads that have been consistent with
contractions in the past.
• Chart 23 shows annual growth in real
per capita spending has been firmer
for small durables (which have seen
price declines over 2025) and for small

renovations. Housing-related and motor
vehicle purchases have seen slower
but still positive growth. Price-wise,
renovations and vehicles have seen
slightly firmer gains over 2025.
• Partial data suggests Q1 has seen
softer volume growth. Vehicle sales
look to have fallen by about 2%qtr,
despite a significant lift in EV sales
that gained a lot more traction in
the April month. The ABS household
spending indicator detail also showed
a decline for furnishings and household

equipment (–0.7%qtr), which was
coming off a relatively strong 3.3%qtr
rise in Q4.
-8
-3
2
7
12-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
Sep-93 Sep-97 Sep-01 Sep-05 Sep-09 Sep-13 Sep-17 Sep-21 Sep-25
%ann avg^index*
time to buy a major item (lhs)* 'major items' – prices (rhs)^
Sources: ABS, Westpac -Melbourne Institute
*deviation from avg, smoothed, adv 3mths
^vehicles, furniture, appliances and small
renovations, annual avg%ch, scale reversed
Q1 est
ann%ch
GST
introduction

latest mth
22. ‘Time to buy a major item’ vs prices
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
Dec-00 Dec-05 Dec-10 Dec-15 Dec-20 Dec-25
ann%$/qtr
vehicles
small renovations
housing-related
other (mainly small durables)
Sources: ABS, Westpac Economics
latest
*real, per capita
markers show Q4
price infln, ann%
23. Consumer spending: ‘big ticket’ items

===== Page 316 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
16
Dwellings: watch this space
SENTIMENT INDICATORS
•  The changed interest rate situation
has seen homebuyer sentiment cool
materially since late last year, moving
back into firmly pessimistic territory but
without any additional negative fall-out
from the recent fuel price shock.
• The ‘time to buy a dwelling’ index

declined a further 4.3% over the three
months to April, but with a larger 7.5%
decline in the first two months partially
reversing with a 3.5% gain in April.
At 85.8, the index is a massive 33pts
below its long run average of 120.
•  Buyer sentiment is notably firmer in
NSW and SA (both state indexes at 93),
around the national read in Vic (85) and
Qld (83) and extremely low in WA (66).
• The new year has seen a significant
pull-back in buyer sentiment amongst

younger age groups who were outright
positive on ‘time to buy’ late last
year. That almost certainly related
to the significant expansion of the
Federal first homebuyer guarantee
scheme which allows eligible buyers
to purchase with a low deposit without
having to pay for loan mortgage
insurance. Income caps on eligibility
were removed with price caps also
raised significantly.
• Interestingly, the sub-group detail
continues to show outright positive

assessments amongst consumers with
an investment property (118) and those
working in manager/professional roles
(112). Buyer sentiment is also less
downbeat amongst freehold home-
owners (95), males (97) and Sydney-
siders (97). Conversely, it is very low in
amongst tenants (76), tradies (70) and
females (75) and low income earners
(72).
• That may all change significantly
in the May update with the Federal
government poised to overhaul
Australia’s capital gains and negative

gearing tax regime. While the changes
are expected to be ‘grandfathered’ and
phased in over a one year grace-period,
they will likely make housing less
attractive as an investment option and,
indirectly, less challenging for owner
occupiers seeking to purchase.
• The May update will also capture
reactions to the latest RBA rate hike,
ordinarily a material negative for buyer
sentiment. Fortunately, the survey will
have pre and post budget responses so

we will have some gauge of how it has
impacted compared to other factors.
60
80
100
120
140
160
60
80
100
120
140
160
Apr-05 Apr-08 Apr-11 Apr-14 Apr-17 Apr-20 Apr-23 Apr-26
indexindex
Source: Westpac – Melbourne Institute
long run
average
*3mth avg, dotted
lines are monthly obs
24. ‘Time to buy a dwelling’
50
70
90
110
130
150
170
50
70
90
110
130
150
170
Apr-21 Apr-23 Apr-25 Apr-21 Apr-23 Apr-25 Apr-21 Apr-23 Apr-25
indexindex
NSW Vic Qld yes no 18-34 35-50 50+

Source: Melbourne Institute,
Westpac Economics *smoothed
state age groupproperty investor
latest
25. ‘Time to buy a dwelling’: selected sub-groups

===== Page 317 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
17
House prices: expectations still hot
SENTIMENT INDICATORS
• Buyer sentiment has tended to move
inversely with price expectations in
recent years – falls associated with
high price expectations and vice versa.
As such, a cooling in consumer house
price expectations has likely cushioned
the shock to buyer sentiment in the first

few months of 2026.
• The Westpac Melbourne Institute House
Price Expectations Index declined 8.4%
over the three months to April, making
a more decisive move off what was a
15yr high. At 153.4, the index is well
below that 174 peak but still above its
long run average of 130.
• The detailed responses still show a
clear majority of consumers expecting
prices to rise: over two-thirds of
those with a view expect an increase
over the next year. That is high but

less emphatic than the 81% back in
February. Just 12% expect prices to fall
(compared to 6% in January).
• Notably, the cooling centred on NSW
(–11% to 151) and Vic (–12% to 144),
where capital city markets, Sydney
and Melbourne, have shown a clearer
slowing and modest price slippage in
recent months (Chart 27).
• Consumer price expectations posted
much milder declines and remained
significantly higher in Qld, SA and WA
with state indexes still in the 162–164

range.
• The Cotality home value index has
continued to moderate, monthly price
growth slowing to 0.2% nationally in
April, annual growth dipping slightly
to 9.1%yr. As noted, the slowdown
has been more pronounced in Sydney
and Melbourne which have recorded
outright declines while other major
capital cities have continue to see gains
(see here for more).
• Aside from geographic differences, the
consumer sentiment survey detail also
shows price expectations have fallen

more heavily amongst consumers with
a mortgage (–15%) and those aged over
50 (–15%).
• As with homebuyer sentiment, price
expectations will be watched closely
when the post budget reaction is
released in May. Of course, price
rises and falls have very different
implications for different sub-groups
so how this plays out across the sub-
group detail will be of equal interest.
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
60
90
120
150
180
Apr-16 Apr-18 Apr-20 Apr-22 Apr-24 Apr-26

ann%index
Westpac-MI House Price
Expectations Index (lhs)*
dwelling prices (rhs)^
Source: Cotality , Westpac-Melbourne Institute
*qtly, seasonally adjusted, adv. 2mths
(dotted lines are unadj’dmthly figs);
^major capital cities, all dwellings.
avg
May month
ann’d
26. Westpac-MI House Price Expectations Index
-22
-16
-10
-4
2
8
14
20
26
32
40
70
100
130
160
190
220
Apr-18 Apr-22 Apr-26 Apr-20 Apr-24 Apr-18 Apr-22 Apr-26 Apr-20 Apr-24
ann%index
expectations (lhs)*

actual (rhs)
Sources: Cotality ,
Westpac-Melbourne
Institute
*qtly seasonally adj’d,
adv. 4mths (dotted
lines are unadj’d
monthly figs)
NSW Vic Qld WA
May
month
ann’d
27. Dwelling prices: actual vs expected by state

===== Page 318 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
18
Risk aversion: impact still to come
SENTIMENT INDICATORS
•  Consumer risk aversion was largely
unchanged between December and
March, holding at a relatively high
level. The Westpac Consumer Risk
Aversion Index rose 0.1pts from 47.9 in
December to 48 in March.
•  Recall that the index is based on
responses to questions on the ‘wisest

place for savings’. These ask consumers
to nominate from a range of options, the
risk index being the difference between
the share nominating ‘safe’ options such
as ‘deposits’ and ‘repay debt’ and the
share nominating ‘risky’ options such as
‘shares’ and ‘real estate’.
• ‘Safe options’ continue to be heavily
favoured, with 22% nominating ‘pay
down debt’ and 28% nominating ‘bank
deposits’ in March.
• Amongst the ‘riskier’ options,
consumers were less inclined towards

‘real estate’ (9.2% down from 10.7% in
December), still relatively uninterested
in ‘shares’ (9.2%) but may be starting
to seek out other options. Some 6.4%
nominated ‘other’ – the highest read
since December 2015. This catch-all
category captures a wide range of
items including the likes of Bitcoin and
gold.
•  Of course, this pre-dates some
significant events. The March survey
pre-dates the RBA’s rate hikes in both
March and May. It also largely pre-

dates the global energy shock which
really started to land sentiment-wise
in April. It also pre-dates what are set
to be some material tax changes in the
Federal budget.
• As such, the June update to this
question will be of intense interest as
it captures what are likely to be some
significant shifts. Interest rate changes
are likely to spur some consumers – the
mortgage belt especially – towards
more heavily favouring repaying
debt. The improved deposit returns

may see other move in favour of
these ‘safe’ assets. The heightened
risk environment and changed tax
arrangements are also likely to further
dampen sentiment towards both
‘shares’ and ‘real estate’.
• The size of the impact from these
developments remains to be seen but
we may well see risk aversion re-test
the extreme highs seen in mid-2023.
History suggests rate hikes alone could
be enough to drive a 5-6pt rise in our
measure of consumer risk aversion.

-40
-20
0
20
40
60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
Mar-78 Mar-84 Mar-90 Mar-96 Mar-02 Mar-08 Mar-14 Mar-20 Mar-26
%%
Sources: ABS, Westpac, Melbourne Institute
* % nominating 'pay down debt'
or interest -bearing assets minus
% nominating real estate or
shares. ‘Pay down debt’ and
‘super’ options begin Jun-97.
high inflation and interest rate period
recessions
GFC COVID
28. Westpac Consumer Risk Aversion Index vs saving rate
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
0
10
20
30
40
50

60
Mar-10 Mar-14 Mar-18 Mar-22 Mar-26 Mar-10 Mar-14 Mar-18 Mar-22 Mar-26
%%
deposits real estate total mortgage
shares don't know other debt
asset classes ‘repay debt’
Sources: Melbourne Institute, Westpac Economics
29. Consumer: ‘wisest place for savings’

===== Page 319 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
19
Job security: sectoral concerns
SENTIMENT INDICATORS
• Notably, the current energy and
interest rate shock is having a deeper
impact on consumers’ labour market
expectations than the 2022–24 ‘cost of
living’ crisis. The Westpac-Melbourne
Institute Index of Unemployment
Expectations jumped 14% over the three

months to April, the sharpest rise since
late 2022 but, more tellingly, taking
the index to a 5½ year high (recall that
lower reads mean more consumers
expect unemployment to fall over the
year ahead). At 147.9, the April read is
well above the long run average of 129.
• Framed against historical variations
in unemployment, the April read is
consistent with a 0.7-0.8ppt rise in the
unemployment rate which, if accurate,
would take the unemployment rate to

around 5% by mid-2027.
• Any such move has clearly not occurred
just yet. ABS figures are only available
up to March. These show a relatively
calm start to 2026, employment lifting
18k in the March month, annual growth
lifting to 1.5%yr, having troughed at
1%yr in January. The unemployment
rate held at 4.3%, a dip to 4.1% in
December-January now looking more
like an anomaly (see here for more).
• As noted in the past, consumer
unemployment expectations should

be viewed more as a gauge of the risk
of labour shedding rather than the
prospective pace of new hiring.
• Latest ABS data on this also shows
little cause for alarm. Labour force
survey estimates to February show
there were 116k retrenchments, down
slightly from 123k in November, the
seasonally adjusted retrenchment rate
still basically bumping around historic
lows (Chart 30). The share of employed
persons expecting to be retrenched
over the next 12mths is much the same,

dipping to 0.3% in the latest survey, well
below the 0.5% average historically.
•  The sub-group detail shows a
significant sectoral theme to the
April jump in job-loss concerns. The
biggest rise in job loss fears has
been amongst those employed in
sectors that are most exposed to
the energy and interest rate shocks,
especially construction (+22% to
152), manufacturing (+22% to 165.4),
hospitality (+33% to 144), and arts &
recreation (+18% to 135.1). By state,

the fear factor is more acute in Tas, Vic
and NSW than in SA, Qld and WA.
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
75
95
115
135
155
175
195
Feb-11 Feb-14 Feb-17 Feb-20 Feb-23 Feb-26
%index
Consumer Unemployment Expectations (lhs) expecting to be retrenched (rhs)^
Sources: ABS, Westpac -Melbourne Institute
*obs are for mid -month of qtr
^% of employed expecting to be
retrenched next 12mths, seasonally
adj’dby Westpac
period
averages
30. Unemployment expectations

80
100
120
140
160
180
80
100
120
140
160
180
Apr-22 Apr-24 Apr-26 Apr-23 Apr-25 Apr-22 Apr-24 Apr-26
indexindex
constrn/mfg Sydney employed
consumer services Melbourne retired
educ/health rest of Aus. other
Source: Melbourne Institute,
Westpac Economics
Ja n
industry location labour status
*smoothed
31. Unemployment expectations: selected sub-groups

===== Page 320 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
20
Western Australia
• Consumer sentiment has continued to
track a more erratic path in WA, pulling
back more sharply in the last three
months than the move seen nationally.
The last time we profiled the state,
a year ago, the ‘liberation day’ tariffs
and associated concerns about a trade
shock to global growth were the main

source of sentiment volatility. WA is by
far Australia’s most export dependent
state with exports accounting for over
60% of GSP (gross state product being
the state analogue of GDP nationally).
At the time, the threat to Australia’s
trade with China, by far the dominant
source of demand for WA’s lucrative
commodity exports, was the central
concern.
• Those fears proved to be misplaced
and there may be an element of over-
reaction to the latest shock to global

energy markets as well. As we highlight
in the recent update to our state
forecasts, while there will be a shock
to real incomes, WA and Australia’s
other mining-dominated states will
benefit from elevated commodity prices
and are set to outperform the big
southeastern states this year and next
(see here for details).
• Be that as it may, WA consumers
are more pessimistic than peers
across nearly every element of the
survey. As Chart 32 highlights, the

negative sentiment gap is 6pts overall,
with a slightly lower 4.8pt gap on
assessments of family finances and
a slightly wider 8.6pt gap on the
economic outlook. The difference
narrows up on assessments of ‘time
to buy a major item’, suggesting
purchasing power issues are not
particularly different in the west.
• The biggest negative wedge is around
housing, where WA’s runaway price
growth is weighing much more heavily.
‘Time to buy a dwelling’ assessments

are at despairing levels around 66 in
WA compared to 88 everywhere else.
Unfortunately consumers’ house price
expectations remain more elevated
in WA, suggesting there’s no let up
expected any time soon (p17).
•  Where WA consumers are more
positive though is around job
security. Even with a shock in April,
unemployment expectations are a good
10pts lower, i.e. better, in WA than
across the rest of Australia.
70
80
90
100
110
120
70
80
90
100
110

120
130
Apr-17 Apr-22 Apr-17 Apr-22 Apr-17 Apr-22
indexindex
WA rest of Aus
Source: Melbourne Institute ,
Westpac Economics
*smoothed
sentiment finances^
^avg of ‘family finances
vs a year ago’ and ‘family
finances next 12mths’
economy^
^avg ‘economic outlook’
next 12mths and
next 5yrs
April month
32. Consumer sentiment, finances, economy: WA vs rest of Aus
65
80
95
110
125
140
155
170
65
80
95
110
125
140
155
170
Apr-17 Apr-22 Apr-17 Apr-22 Apr-17 Apr-22

indexindex
WA rest of Aus
Source: Melbourne
Institute, Westpac Economics
*smoothed
major item unemp expnsdwelling
April
month
33. Consumer ‘time to buy’, unemp expns: WA vs rest of Aus
STATE SNAPSHOT

===== Page 321 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS 21
Economic and financial forecasts
Interest rate forecasts
Australia Latest (8 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28
Cash 4.35 4.35 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.85 4.60 4.35
90 Day BBSW 4.44 4.55 4.90 4.90 4.95 4.95 4.95 4.80 4.55 4.30
3 Year Bond 4.64 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20

3 Year Swap 4.63 4.75 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.20
10 Year Bond 4.96 5.00 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.00 4.95 4.90 4.90
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 57 65 65 60 55 50 40 30 20 15
US
Fed Funds 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625 3.625
US 10 Year Bond 4.39 4.35 4.40 4.45 4.50 4.55 4.60 4.65 4.70 4.75
Exchange rate forecasts
Latest (8 May) Jun–26 Sep–26 Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar-28 Jun-28
AUD/USD 0.7203 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.74 0.74 0.74 0.73 0.73

NZD/USD 0.5934 0.59 0.59 0.62 0.64 0.66 0.67 0.67 0.67 0.67
USD/JPY 156.89 157 156 154 152 150 148 146 144 142
EUR/USD 1.1730 1.18 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.22 1.22
GBP/USD 1.3552 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.41
USD/CNY 6.8023 6.80 6.75 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35
AUD/NZD 1.2139 1.22 1.22 1.18 1.14 1.12 1.11 1.10 1.10 1.10
Sources: Bloomberg, Westpac Economics.

===== Page 322 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS 22
FORECASTS
Economic and financial forecasts
Australian economic growth forecasts
2025 2026 2027
Q3 Q4 Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f Q1f Q2f
GDP %qtr 0.5 0.8 0.5 0.2 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.4
%yr end 2.1 2.6 2.6 1.9 1.6 1.0 0.9 1.1
Unemployment rate % * 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.4 4.6 4.9 5.0 4.9
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.7 0.8

%yr end 3.3 3.4 3.3 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2 3.2
Headline CPI %qtr 1.3 0.6 1.4 1.5 1.4 0.5 0.6 0.6
%yr end 3.2 3.6 4.1 4.9 5.0 4.9 4.1 3.2
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr 1.0 0.9 0.8 1.1 1.1 1.0 0.8 0.7
%yr end 3.0 3.4 3.5 3.9 4.0 4.0 4.0 3.6
Calendar years
2025 2026f 2027f 2028f
GDP %qtr – – – –
%yr end 2.6 1.0 1.6 2.8
Unemployment rate % * 4.3 4.9 4.9 4.5
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr – – – –
%yr end 3.4 3.2 3.0 3.4
Headline CPI %qtr – – – –
%yr end 3.6 4.9 2.5 2.2
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr – – – –

%yr end 3.4 4.0 3.0 2.4
* Quarter–average.

===== Page 323 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
23
CONSUMER DATA AND FORECASTS
2025 2026
% change Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4f Q1f Q2f Q3f Q4f
Total private consumption* 0.6 1.0 0.5 0.3 0.6 0.0 0.2 0.4
annual chg 0.9 2.3 2.6 2.4 2.5 1.4 1.1 1.2
Real labour income, ann chg 3.0 3.7 3.9 3.3 2.5 0.7 0.4 0.4
Real disposable income, ann chg** 4.7 4.8 3.8 3.7 1.6 0.1 1.2 -1.2

Household savings ratio 6.8 5.8 6.1 6.9 6.1 4.7 6.3 4.0
Real retail sales, ann chg 1.2 1.5 1.7 1.8 1.8 2.0 1.7 0.5
Motor vehicle sales (‘000s)*** 879 855 877 861 870 879 887 896
annual chg -6.5 -4.2 2.4 1.1 -1.0 2.7 1.1 4.0
Consumer demand
Calendar years
2024 2025 2026f 2027f
Total private consumption, ann chg* 0.7 2.1 1.5 1.7
Real labour income, ann chg 2.1 3.5 1.0 2.3
Real disposable income, ann chg** 2.3 4.3 0.4 1.3
Household savings ratio, % 4.1 6.4 5.3 4.9

Real retail sales, ann chg 0.2 1.7 1.6 1.6
Motor vehicle sales (‘000s) 885 868 883 918
annual chg -2.4 -1.9 1.7 4.0
Notes to pages 23 and 24:
* National accounts definition.
** Labour and non–labour income after tax and interest payments.
*** Passenger vehicles and SUVs, annualised (includes EVs).
^ Average over entire history of survey.
^^Seasonally adjusted. # Net % expected rise next 12 months minus % expecting fall (wage expectations is net of % expecting wages to rise and % expecting flat/decline).

Note that questions on mortgage rate and house price expectations have only been surveyed since May 2009.

===== Page 324 =====

or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
24
CONSUMER DATA AND FORECASTS
2025 2026
% change avg^ Jul Aug Sep Oct Nov Dec Jan Feb Mar Apr
Westpac–MI Consumer Sentiment Index 100.3 93.1 98.5 95.4 92.1 103.8 94.5 92.9 90.5 91.6 80.1
family finances vs a year ago    87.9 79.2 84.2 86.3 82.1 85.2 80.9 82.7 78.8 80.2 66.8
family finances next 12 months 106.5 101.4 106.8 107.7 97.1 109.1 102.4 97.8 97.7 97.6 84.0

economic conditions next 12 months 90.7 94.1 101.2 92.2 89.9 104.8 94.6 88.4 88.5 85.9 75.3
economic conditions next 5 years 92.2 93.4 98.4 92.7 94.0 108.4 95.7 96.5 94.1 96.3 91.4
time to buy major household item 123.3 97.6 101.7 98.2 97.2 111.6 98.9 99.1 93.5 98.0 83.3
time to buy a dwelling 119.4 88.5 97.8 96.1 96.5 96.4 86.2 89.6 84.0 82.9 85.8
Westpac–MI Consumer Risk Aversion Index^^ 18.9 – – 46.5 – – 47.9 – – 48.0 –
CSI± 99.7 82.6 86.4 86.4 82.4 89.6 83.6 82.9 80.5 81.9 71.5

Westpac–MI House Price Expectations Index# 129.8 162.8 164.2 168.4 171.9 172.4 169.9 167.5 173.9 171.0 153.5
consumer mortgage rate expectations# 40.5 –16.9 –16.4 –12.0 1.7 19.1 45.5 52.8 77.5 70.5 77.2
Westpac–MI Unemployment Expectations 129.2 128.7 125.6 131.4 127.6 139.5 126.8 129.4 129.8 134.7 147.8
MI inflation expectations (trimmed mean) 4.4 4.7 3.9 4.7 4.8 4.5 4.7 4.6 5.0 5.2 5.9
MI wage expectations (trimmed mean) 1.3 1.2 1.3 1.2 1.4 1.5 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3 1.3

Consumer sentiment

===== Page 325 =====

Mantas Vanagas
Senior Economist
E: mantas.vanagas@westpac.com.au

===== Page 326 =====

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141
(including where acting under any of its Westpac, St George,
Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).
References to the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and
its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we
can accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make
improvements for you. We may at times use technology to capture
data about you to help us to better understand you and your needs,
including potentially for the purposes of assessing your individual
reading habits and interests to allow us to provide suggestions
regarding other reading material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

recommendation or financial advice and investment decisions
should not be based on it. This information does not constitute an
offer, a solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for,

purchase or sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally
binding contract. To the extent that this information contains any
general advice, it has been prepared without taking into account
your objectives, financial situation or needs and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the advice. Certain types
of transactions, including those involving futures, options and high
yield securities give rise to substantial risk and are not suitable for all

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable,
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known
or unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may
act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker,

underwriter, distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent)
simultaneously with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to
potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of
a financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact
or hold a position (including hedging and trading positions) for its
own account or the account of a client in any financial instrument
which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects
his/her personal views about the financial products, companies
or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources reasonably
believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s
knowledge, they are not in receipt of inside information and this

material does not contain inside information; and (d) no other part of
the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are
subject to known and unknown risks, and there are significant
uncertainties, limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics,
modelling, data, scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the

the accuracy, completeness or reliability of the information. There
is a risk that the analysis, estimates, judgements, assumptions,
views, models, scenarios or projections used may turn out to be
incorrect. These risks may cause actual outcomes to differ materially
from those expressed or implied. The ESG-related statements
in this material do not constitute advice, nor are they guarantees
or predictions of future performance, and Westpac gives no

Australia:  Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence
(No. 233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide
here or request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the
extent that this information contains any general advice, it has been
prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable

Singapore laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material
in Singapore should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect
of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this material.
Westpac Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and
is subject to supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

===== Page 327 =====

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting
on it you should consider the appropriateness of the information
for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33
007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a

branch in Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness
of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia.

of the Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity
Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is
neither registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission
Merchant registered with the US CFTC. The services and products
referenced above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance
Corporation (“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a
wholly-owned subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered
under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934 (‘the Exchange

‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind
WCM other than as provided for in certain legal agreements
between Westpac and WCM and obligations of WCM do not
represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided
by Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all
of the independence and disclosure standards applicable to debt

research reports prepared for retail investors in the United States.
WCM is the U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts
responsibility for the contents of this communication. Transactions
by U.S. customers of any securities referenced herein should be
effected through WCM. All disclaimers set out with respect to
Westpac apply equally to WCM. If you would like to speak to
someone regarding any security mentioned herein, please contact
WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any non-U.S. securities

or related financial instruments mentioned in this communication
may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S. issuers may
not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations of, the SEC
in the United States. Information on such non-U.S. securities or
related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S. companies
may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and regulatory
requirements comparable to those in effect in the United States.

The value of any investment or income from any securities or related
derivative instruments denominated in a currency other than U.S.
dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may have a
positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is
not registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or
associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under

or the laws, rules or regulations of any State. Unless otherwise
specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely those of
the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis
expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject
to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).

The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom.
Rather, this communication is being made only to and is directed
at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment

Professionals (set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”));
(b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth
companies, unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article
49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to
whom it may otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together

being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a
relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or
any of its contents. In the same way, the information contained
in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties”
and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial
Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.  Westpac
expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this

communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe
GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG
is authorised in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision
Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche

Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered with the commercial register
(‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s
Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related Entities’,
Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for
in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and
collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG and obligations
of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or

set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by
any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such
distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.
This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to
which that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research.
It has not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements
designed to promote the independence of investment research
and therefore constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this
communication is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of
the dissemination of investment research.

===== Page 328 =====

May 2026
First Home
Buyer Report

===== Page 329 =====

2 © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Cotality’s First Home Buyer
(FHB) Report has tracked
purchasing activity for
several years, analysing the
types of properties bought,
the prices paid, and broader
shifts in entry-level demand.
The latest edition updates
these measures and extends
the analysis to examine FHB
activity across different
price brackets.
Now in its third edition in
partnership with Westpac,
the report also draws on the

bank’s mortgage lending
data to provide additional
insight into borrower
characteristics. That
includes the average age of
FHB borrowers, a measure
not widely available
elsewhere, as well as loan-
to-value ratios across new
mortgages.
For clarity, we define a first home
buyer purchase to be where no party
involved has owned property in New
Zealand before and are using a
mortgage to make the deal.
Note:
The Westpac FHB age and LVR data
are sourced from their lending records

and is not matched to the Cotality
database for this report.
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report

===== Page 330 =====

3     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
FHBs’ market share remains
high. In Q1 2026, they
accounted for 27.5% of
property purchases across
NZ, just short of the record
high of 28.2% set in the final
three months of last year. In a
busier overall market, they are
buying more properties too.
Over the past 12 months,
FHBs have purchased
around 24,800 properties,
the highest annual total since
Q3 2021 (25,650).
This strength for FHBs is

being seen right across the
country, with market shares
running above their own long-
term averages since 2005.
For example, across the wider
Wellington area, FHBs
accounted for 37% of activity
in Q1 2026, about 8%-points
above its average. Hamilton
has also been strong,
alongside Napier, Gisborne,
and ‘provincial’ areas such as
the South Waikato and
Waikato Districts.
This high level of activity
hasn’t meant too many
compromises either.
Standalone houses have

comprised nearly 77% of all
FHB purchases so far in 2026,
up from 75% last year, and the
highest figure since 2020
(which was 78%).
FHBs have had to pay a little
more, with a median price so
far this year of $720,000, but
that’s still less than Q1 2022’s
peak of $740,000.
FHBs are getting more
active across the value
spectrum too. For example, in
the middle 40% of the market
by value, their share rose from
just 21% back in 2015 to
almost 29% in 2025, and a

little higher still over the first
three months of this year.
Access to low deposit
finance remains a key
support for first home
buyers. Recent Reserve Bank
data shows that more than
half of FHB loans are done at
less than 20% deposit (or
above 80% LVR), and
Westpac’s lending records
show a recent average LVR
for FHBs of 81%, up from
less than 77% in 2024.
The average age for FHBs
has also dropped slightly,
with Westpac’s figures
showing buyers have skewed

younger, with an average of
around 35 over the past year,
down from a typical age of 36
in 2024.
For some buyers, the gradual
rise in purchasing age over
time will reflect affordability
pressures, just as the recent
decline is likely linked in part
to lower house prices. At the
same time, others will have
chosen to buy later, placing
greater priority on career or
family first.
Looking ahead, although
getting onto the property
ladder remains challenging,

conditions should stay
relatively favourable for
FHBs. Mortgage rates have
fallen, KiwiSaver access for at
least part of the deposit
continues to provide support,
and LVR speed limits were
eased from 1 December.
As other buyer groups,
including relocating owner-
occupiers, begin to return,
FHBs’ share of activity may
ease from current highs over
the next year or two.
However, in a busier market
they are still likely to purchase
more properties overall, which

remains a positive.
Key findings
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report

===== Page 331 =====

4     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Our latest Cotality-Westpac First
Home Buyer Report comes at a
turbulent time for the New Zealand
economy.
Until recently, the economy looked
like it was getting back on firmer
footing. That was in part due to the
strength in commodity export
prices, which has been boosting
incomes and confidence in many
regions, especially those in the
lower South Island.
On top of that, the past year also

saw the RBNZ make large cuts to
the Official Cash Rate (OCR) which
has helped to boost economic
conditions right across the country.
Those falls in the OCR have been
especially important for the
property market. The latter part of
2025 saw fixed term mortgage
rates falling to their lowest level in
close to four years. And while
mortgage rates have risen more
recently, they remain well down on
the highs that we saw in the wake
of the pandemic.
For those looking to get into their

first home, lower mortgage rates
have made it much easier to get a
foot on the property ladder*:
• In most parts of the country
(excluding Auckland), minimum
mortgage payments are now
around $130/month lower than
they were this time last year,
and they’re a whopping
$820/month lower than they
were back in 2024.
• In Auckland, where first home
prices tend to be much higher,
the fall in mortgage costs has
been even larger. Minimum
mortgage payments are now

around $180/month lower than
they were this time last year,
and they’re around
$1,100/month lower than they
were back in 2024.
(* Calculations based on an average
price first home with a 90%
mortgage fixed for one year and a
term of 20 years.)
With that improvement in
affordability, recent months have
seen a further lift in the proportion
of first home buyers. Furthermore,
as highlighted elsewhere in this
report, first home buyers are
actually getting more bang-for-

their buck. There are large numbers
of properties available for sale right
now. That’s meant first home
buyers have been able to get into
larger or stand-alone homes with
only a modest lift in purchase price.
However, the conflict in the Middle
East is now casting a long shadow
across the New Zealand economy,
and there will be important impacts
on the housing market.
Oil prices have rocketed higher in
recent months, and we’re seeing an
increasing number of related

disruptions to supply chains. As a
result, inflation is again rising
rapidly, and it’s likely to linger well
above the RBNZ’s target range for
an extended period.
Combined with the related
increases in uncertainty, those
pressures will be a drag on
economic activity and employment
over the coming months.
This leaves the RBNZ with a
particularly challenging balancing
act. The RBNZ can’t offset the rise
in oil prices that’s already occurred
by hiking the OCR now. However,

they also can’t ignore the risk that
the current oil related rise in cost
pressures evolves into a more
widespread and protracted lift in
inflation. The past few years have
shown just how corrosive and long
lasting the effects of high inflation
can be for the economy, and the
RBNZ is loathe to see those sorts of
pressures taking hold again.
Earlier interest rate hikes might help
limit the risk that we see a more
sustained rise in inflation. However,

the RBNZ is also very mindful that
higher interest rates now would
weigh on economic activity at a
time when the labour market is
already soft.
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
Commentary from Satish Ranchhod, Westpac NZ Senior Economist

===== Page 332 =====

5     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
This isn’t an easy trade-off for the
RBNZ. Balancing those concerns,
we expect that the RBNZ will begin
a series of increases in the Official
Cash Rate from September, a little
earlier than they previously
signalled. We expect the OCR will
rise from the current low of 2.25%
to 3.50% in early 2027, at which
point the OCR will be back around
‘neutral’ levels from the RBNZ’s

perspective. After that time, the
outlook is cloudier. As a result, we
expect that interest rates will
continue to rise, but at a more
gradual pace.
Expectations for higher inflation
both here and abroad is putting
upwards pressure on global interest
rates. That has already flown
through to mortgage rates here in
New Zealand: fixed-term mortgage
rates across different terms are
now up around 20 to 70
percentage points from the lows
that we saw late last year.

Those challenging economic
conditions and the likelihood of
earlier interest rate hikes are giving
first home buyers plenty of food for
thought. House price growth is set
to remain modest for some time. In
fact, we now expect that house
prices will fall around 1% over 2026,
with a gradual return to more
moderate rates of growth further
ahead.
Even with the recent rise in
mortgage rates, the housing market
is still a lot more accessible for first
home buyers, with borrowing costs

still well down on the levels that we
saw in recent years. But with
growing upwards pressure on
interest rates, it’s a good time for
prospective first home buyers (or
anyone with a re-fix coming up) to
think about the best way to
structure their borrowing. That
could help them to insulate
themselves from the likely trend
higher in the OCR over the next
couple of years and could save
them a lot of money over the life of
their mortgage.
(* Calculations based on an average price first home with a 90% mortgage fixed for one year and a term of 20 years.)

One year fixed mortgage rate
Apr-24 Apr-25 Apr-26 2026 vs 2026 vs
Median price 7.67% 5.68% 5.29% 2024 2025
Northland $615,000 $4,517 $3,864 $3,743 -$774 -$121
Auckland $900,000 $6,610 $5,655 $5,477 -$1,133 -$178
Waikato $695,000 $5,105 $4,367 $4,229 -$876 -$138
Bay of Plenty $733,000 $5,384 $4,606 $4,461 -$923 -$145
Gisborne $600,000 $4,407 $3,770 $3,651 -$756 -$119
Haw kes Bay $625,250 $4,592 $3,929 $3,805 -$787 -$124
Taranaki $560,000 $4,113 $3,519 $3,408 -$705 -$111

Manaw atu-Whanganui $524,000 $3,849 $3,293 $3,189 -$660 -$104
Wellington $730,000 $5,362 $4,587 $4,442 -$920 -$145
Tasman $712,000 $5,230 $4,474 $4,333 -$897 -$141
Nelson $629,500 $4,624 $3,956 $3,831 -$793 -$125
Marlborough $585,000 $4,297 $3,676 $3,560 -$737 -$116
West Coast $407,500 $2,993 $2,561 $2,480 -$513 -$81
Canterbury $655,000 $4,811 $4,116 $3,986 -$825 -$130
Otago $620,000 $4,554 $3,896 $3,773 -$781 -$123
Southland $489,000 $3,592 $3,073 $2,976 -$616 -$97

Nationwide $720,000 $5,288 $4,524 $4,382 -$906 -$142
NZ excl Auckland $650,000 $4,774 $4,084 $3,956 -$818 -$128
Minimum monthly mortgage
payments * Fall in minimum
monthly payment

===== Page 333 =====

6     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
The national picture
Since the previous six-monthly First
Home Buyer (FHB) Report in
November 2025, the broader
property market has seen little
change. Sales volumes continue to
show signs of a gradual upward
trend, but activity has been
subdued in the early months of this
year, while the stock of listings
remains relatively elevated.
Conditions therefore remain in
buyers’ favour, which helps explain

why property values have stayed
broadly flat. Some regional
variation persists, with parts of
Southland and Canterbury showing
more resilience than Auckland or
Wellington. In part, this reflects the
shape of the economy, with the
farming sector outperforming
services.
FHBs remain strong and are not
always needing 20% deposits
Generally speaking, however,
property values remain subdued.
And in this environment – with
house prices and mortgage rates

down, and affordability better –
FHBs continue to fare well.
The Cotality Buyer Classification
data shows that FHBs have
enjoyed another strong quarter,
accounting for 27.5% of
purchases in Q1 2026 – just short
of the record high of 28.2% set in
the final three months of last year.
In a market where the number of
sales is edging higher too, FHBs
are also doing more deals in
absolute terms. Over the past 12
months, FHBs have purchased
around 24,800 properties, the

highest annual total since Q3 2021
(25,650).
It’s easy to be blasé about this
strength for FHBs, given that
they’ve been running well above
their normal/average market share
(of closer to 22%) for about three
years now. But their ongoing high
levels of activity should not be
overlooked and it’s a continued
positive story.
Lower property values and
reduced mortgage rates are
helping FHBs, as is access to
(ever-growing) KiwiSaver funds for
at least part of the deposit. In

addition, many FHBs aren’t even
needing a 20% deposit in the first
place. The latest Reserve Bank
figures show that 50-60% of FHB
loans have recently been done at
less than 20% deposit or above
80% loan to value ratio (LVR).
That upwards trend for low-
deposit lending to FHBs is backed
up by Westpac’s own mortgage
lending records. These figures
show that the average LVR for
FHBs has continued to drift higher,
averaging nearly 81% across NZ in
the past year – up from a touch less

than 79% this time in 2025 and
below 77% in 2024. LVRs tend to
be a little higher in regions such as
Waikato and Auckland, but lower in
Wellington, Nelson, and Tasman.
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
National FHB activity
Source: Cotality

===== Page 334 =====

7     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Average % LVR for Westpac FHB loans and average age of borrower (12-
month rolling averages)
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
Regional % LVRs and average FHB age (12-month rolling averages)
Source: Westpac
Source: Westpac
FHB % market share by price paid band
Source: Cotality

===== Page 335 =====

8     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Cotality –Westpac 
First Home Buyer Report
They’re also getting more for their 
money
FHBs have always tended to be 
willing to compromise on location 
or property type to make the shift 
from renting into ownership, but 
lately there hasn’t been much need 
to take such an approach. Over the 
first three months of the year, 
standalone houses have comprised 
nearly 77% of all FHB purchases, up 
from 75% last year, and the highest 
figure since 2020 (78%). For 
comparison, standalone houses 
have accounted for 72% of deals 
across all buyers so far this year.
This shows that FHBs are getting 
the most for their money in a 
quieter housing market. 
Admittedly, the median price 
they’ve paid so far this year has 
risen to $720,000, up from around 
$700,000 for most of 2025 and 
higher than the Q3 2024 trough of 
$675,000. But it’s still less than the 
peak FHB price paid of $740,000 in 
Q1 2022. 
Another important point to make 
about the prices being paid by 
FHBs is that the median for this 
group ($720,000 so far in 2026) is 
lower than all buyers ($795,000), 
but significantly higher than the 
lower quartile (bottom 25%) across 
all buyers, of $600,000. In other 
words, the ‘typical’ FHB doesn’t 
always enter at the bottom of the 
market and work their way up – 
many actually enter the market 
well above the lowest tiers of the 
ladder.
We can also split the data by 
value bracket and FHBs’ market 
share has recently been rising 
across the spectrum. In the 
bottom 30% of the market by value, 
their share rose from 26% in 2015 
to 33% in 2020, hitting 35% last 
year, and now 36% so far in 2026. 
A similar upwards trend can be 
seen in the middle 40% value 
bracket (share of around 21% in 
2015 versus close to 30% now), 
and also the top 30% (10% in 2015 
versus 15% now).
FHBs are also getting a little 
younger (albeit older than before)
We’ve also seen encouraging 
patterns in buyer age lately, with 
the average FHB on Westpac’s 
records being roughly 35 over the 
past year, down marginally from 
the typical age of 36 in 2024.
Of course, the recent figure of 
around 35 nationally is still higher 
than the mark of 34 that we saw 
back in the early part of 2021. 
Again, Auckland’s recent figure 
(roughly 37) comes in a little above 
the NZ reading, but lower-priced 
areas such as Taranaki, West 
Coast, and Southland have younger 
FHBs. 
Affordability will play a key role in 
the average age of FHBs, delaying 
the purchasing decision for some 
people out of necessity in 
expensive areas. But for other 
people, a higher age will be a 
conscious choice, reflecting other 
motivations, such as an OE, or a 
career or family. In other words, 
Auckland’s above-average FHB age 
won’t be solely due to expensive 
housing. Equally, people in other 
areas may still try to buy earlier, 
regardless of the situation for 
prices and affordability.
A solid outlook
Overall, it’s never easy to buy that 
first home and FHBs certainly 
continue to face challenges. But 
their presence has remained 
strong in recent months and 
another solid year beckons in 
2026, with support from the low-
deposit lending allowances at the 
banks.
It’s worth noting that if and when 
other buyer groups such as 
relocating owner-occupiers start to 
drift back to the market, FHBs’ % 
share of activity could conceivably 
fall over the next year or two, from 
a record high. But in a busier overall 
market they are still buying more 
properties and as such there’s still 
good news flowing.

Purchase price paid
Source: Cotality

===== Page 336 =====

9     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Source: Cotality
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
The main centres
Looking at the data across
Auckland, Hamilton, Tauranga,
wider Wellington (i.e. combined
City, Lower Hutt, Upper Hutt,
Porirua), Christchurch, and
Dunedin, the national trends can
also be seen at the more granular
level – indeed, all of these areas
have had FHB market shares lately
that are above their own averages.

The wider Wellington area remains
very buoyant for FHBs, where they
have accounted for 37% of all
property market activity so far in
2026, about 8%-points above
normal for this area. Hamilton sits
at 33% for the year to date (also
around 8%-points above normal),
with Auckland at 30%, Dunedin and
Christchurch at 26-27%, and
Tauranga at 23%. Even though it’s
lower in absolute terms, that figure
for Tauranga is still strong relative
to its own history (average of 17%).

Looking at the different property
types, standalone houses still
dominate in most areas, accounting
for almost 90% of FHB purchases
in Dunedin, Tauranga, and
Hamilton. In Wellington,
Christchurch, and Auckland, the
figures are lower (65-70%), but
that’s always the case due to a
more diverse range of stock. It’s
probably Wellington and
Christchurch that stand out most
here, with FHBs targeting
standalone houses less often than
normal (recent figures are lower

than averages of around 75%).
In each main centre, the median
FHB price is lower than the figure
for all buyers, but higher than the
lower quartile for all buyers – in
other words, FHBs don’t always
enter at the bottom. In terms of the
prices themselves, Auckland is the
main centre where FHBs pay the
most, at a median of $900,000 so
far in 2026, which is $121,500 less
than the all-buyer median, but
$118,750 more than the all-buyer
lower quartile. Median FHB prices

paid are $815,000 in Tauranga so
far in 2026, followed by Wellington
at $740,000, Hamilton $700,000,
and lower still in Christchurch and
Dunedin.
FHB % share of purchases

===== Page 337 =====

10     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
House % share of FHB purchases
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
Purchase price paid Q1 2026
Source: Cotality
Source: Cotality

===== Page 338 =====

11     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
The main urban areas
Digging deeper into the next 12 key
centres around New Zealand, the
story of relative strength for FHBs’
market share has remained in place
so far in 2026. Napier stands out
with 31% of transactions in the year
to date going to FHBs, 11%-points
above average. Gisborne and
Palmerston North also have an FHB
share >30%, with Hastings and

Invercargill both at 29%.
Nelson, Rotorua, and Whangarei
have also had FHB shares of at
least 25% so far in 2026, while also
being at least 4%-points above
their own averages. The absolute
numbers for Kapiti Coast (23%) and
Queenstown (21%) are a bit lower,
but still very solid compared to their
own averages.
Standalone houses tend to be the
dominant type of property amongst
the existing dwelling stock in many
provincial areas, and therefore also

account for a high share of FHB
purchases. In Gisborne, for
example, houses have represented
98% of all FHB activity so far this
year, with 90% or greater shares
also seen in Rotorua, Napier, New
Plymouth, Whanganui, and
Invercargill.
Of the 12 areas, only Queenstown
has had a relatively low figure, with
houses accounting for less than
70% of FHB purchases so far in
2026. That’s likely to reflect a wider
range of property types amongst
the existing stock of dwellings, as

well as affordability pressures
which are probably pushing FHBs
towards lower price brackets (and
hence smaller dwellings).
Indeed, in terms of median prices
paid by FHBs so far this year, the
highest figure (amongst the main
urban areas) has been in
Queenstown, at $1,205,000. Kapiti
Coast comes in at $705,000, with
Whangarei, Gisborne, Rotorua,
Napier, Hastings, New Plymouth,
and Nelson also all at least
$600,000. At the other end of the
spectrum, Invercargill is $480,000

and Whanganui $450,000.
FHB % share of purchases
Source: Cotality

===== Page 339 =====

12     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
Purchase price paid Q1 2026
Source: Cotality

===== Page 340 =====

13     © 2026 CoreLogic NZ Limited t/as Cotality. Proprietary
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
The provinces
Around NZ’s provincial markets
(with a minimum number of 35 FHB
purchases so far in 2026), all had a
FHB % market share in Q1 above
the long-term average. The highest
raw numbers have been in South
Waikato (35%), Waikato District
(29%), along with Waipa (28%), and
Ashburton (27%). Compared to
their own averages, South Waikato
and Waipa have also been strong,

alongside Horowhenua and Central
Otago.
Marlborough and Tasman have had
lower shares of purchases going to
FHBs so far this year, at 19% and
16% respectively, but each of those
is still about 2%-points above its
average. In other words, there’s still
been a solid presence for FHBs
compared to normal.
Meanwhile, in terms of the prices
being paid by FHBs in these
provincial areas, Central Otago has
had the highest figure so far in
2026 ($823,250), with Selwyn next

at $755,000. Other areas with
FHBs paying at least $700,000
include Waipa, Waikato District,
Matamata Piako, Taupo, Western
Bay of Plenty, and Tasman. Median
prices paid by FHBs so far in 2026
are $500,000 or less in Timaru,
Waitaki, and South Waikato.
FHB % share of purchases
Source: Cotality

===== Page 341 =====

The Cotality data, metrics and
insights (Cotality Data) provided in
this publication is of a general
nature and should not be construed
as specific advice or relied upon in

lieu of appropriate professional
advice.
While CoreLogic/Cotality uses
commercially reasonable efforts to
ensure the Cotality Data is current,
Cotality does not warrant the
accuracy, currency or
completeness of the Cotality Data
and to the full extent permitted by
law excludes all loss or damage
howsoever arising (including
through negligence) in connection
with the Cotality Data.

===== Page 342 =====

This material contains general
commentary, and market colour.
The material does not constitute
investment advice. Certain types of

transactions, including those
involving futures, options and high
yield securities give rise to
substantial risk and are not suitable
for all investors. We recommend
that you seek your own
independent legal or financial
advice before proceeding with any
investment decision. This
information has been prepared
without taking account of your
objectives, financial situation or
needs. This material may contain
material provided by third parties.
While such material is published

such material. Although we have
made every effort to ensure the
information is free from error, none
of Westpac or its related entities
warrants the accuracy, adequacy or
completeness of the information, or
otherwise endorses it in any way.
Except where contrary to law,
Westpac and its related entities
intend by this notice to exclude
liability for the information. The
information is subject to change
without notice and none of

Westpac or its related entities is
under any obligation to update the
information or correct any
inaccuracy which may become
apparent at a later date. The
information contained in this
material does not constitute an
offer, a solicitation of an offer, or an

inducement to subscribe for,
purchase or sell any financial
instrument or to enter a legally
binding contract. Past performance
is not a reliable indicator of future

Australia: Westpac holds an
Australian Financial Services
Licence (No. 233714). This material
is provided to you solely for your
own use and in your capacity as a
wholesale client of Westpac.
New Zealand: In New Zealand,
Westpac Institutional Bank refers
to the brand under which products
and services are provided by either
Westpac or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (“WNZL”). Any product or
service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from

applicable customer agreement.
China, Hong Kong, Singapore and
India: This material has been
prepared and issued for distribution

expert investors (as defined in the
applicable Singapore laws and
regulations) only. Recipients in
Singapore of this material should
contact Westpac Singapore Branch
in respect of any matters arising
from, or in connection with, this
material. Westpac Singapore
Branch holds a wholesale banking
licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary
Authority of Singapore. Westpac
Hong Kong Branch holds a banking
license and is subject to supervision

by the Hong Kong Monetary
Authority. Westpac Hong Kong
branch also holds a license issued
by the Hong Kong Securities and
Futures Commission (SFC) for Type
1 and Type 4 regulated activities.
This material is intended only to
“professional investors” as defined
in the Securities and Futures
Ordinance and any rules made
under that Ordinance. Westpac
Shanghai and Beijing Branches hold
banking licenses and are subject to
supervision by the China Banking

and Insurance Regulatory
Commission (CBIRC). Westpac
Mumbai Branch holds a banking
license from Reserve Bank of India
(RBI) and subject to regulation and
supervision by the RBI.
UK: The contents of this
communication, which have been
prepared by and are the sole
responsibility of Westpac Banking
Corporation London and Westpac
Europe Limited. Westpac (a) has its
principal place of business in the
United Kingdom at Camomile
Court, 23 Camomile Street, London

Prudential Regulation Authority in
Australia. Westpac is authorised in
the United Kingdom by the
Prudential Regulation Authority
Westpac is subject to regulation by
the Financial Conduct Authority
and limited regulation by the
Prudential Regulation Authority.
Details about the extent of our
regulation by the Prudential
Regulation Authority are available
from us on request.

===== Page 343 =====

Westpac Europe Limited is a
company registered in England
(number 05660023) and is
authorised by the Prudential
Regulation Authority and regulated
by the Financial Conduct Authority

and the Prudential Regulation
Authority.
This communication is being made
only to and is directed at (a)
persons who have professional
experience in matters relating to
investments who fall within Article
19(5) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Financial
Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”) or (b) high net worth
entities, and other persons to
whom it may otherwise lawfully be
communicated, falling within
Article 49(2)(a) to (d) of the Order

(all such persons together being
referred to as “relevant persons”).
Any person who is not a relevant
person should not act or rely on this
communication or any of its
contents. The investments to which
this communication relates are only
available to and any invitation, offer
or agreement to subscribe,
purchase or otherwise acquire such
investments will be engaged in only
with, relevant persons. Any person
who is not a relevant person should
not act or rely upon this

communication or any of its
contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this
communication is intended for
“eligible counterparties” and
“professional clients” as defined by
the rules of the Financial Conduct
Authority and is not intended for
“retail clients”. With this in mind,
Westpac expressly prohibits you
from passing on the information in
this communication to any third
party. In particular this
communication and, in each case,
any copies thereof may not be

taken, transmitted or distributed,
directly or indirectly into any
restricted jurisdiction. This
communication is made in
compliance with the Market Abuse
Regulation (Regulation(EU)
596/2014).
Investment recommendations
disclosure
The material may contain
investment recommendations,
including information
recommending an investment
strategy. Reasonable steps have
been taken to ensure that the
material is presented in a clear,
accurate and objective manner.

Investment Recommendations for
Financial Instruments covered by
MAR are made in compliance with
Article 20 MAR. Westpac does not
apply MAR Investment
Recommendation requirements to
Spot Foreign Exchange which is out
of scope for MAR.
Unless otherwise indicated, there
are no planned updates to this
Investment Recommendation at
the time of publication. Westpac
has no obligation to update, modify
or amend this Investment
Recommendation or to notify the

recipients of this Investment
Recommendation should any
information, including opinion,
forecast or estimate set out in this
Investment Recommendation
change or subsequently become
inaccurate.
Westpac will from time to time
dispose of and acquire financial
instruments of companies covered
in this Investment
Recommendation as principal and
act as a market maker or liquidity
provider in such financial
instruments.
Westpac does not have any
proprietary positions in equity

shares of issuers that are the
subject of an investment
recommendation.
Westpac may have provided
investment banking services to the
issuer in the course of the past 12
months.
Westpac does not permit any
issuer to see or comment on any
investment recommendation prior
to its completion and distribution.
Individuals who produce
investment recommendations are
not permitted to undertake any
transactions in any financial
instruments or derivatives in

relation to the issuers covered by
the investment recommendations
they produce.
Westpac has implemented policies
and procedures, which are
designed to ensure conflicts of
interests are managed consistently
and appropriately, and to treat
clients fairly.
The following arrangements have
been adopted for the avoidance
and prevention of conflicts in
interests associated with the
provision of investment
recommendations.
i. Chinese Wall/Cell
arrangements;

ii. physical separation of various
Business/Support Units;
iii. and well defined wall/cell
crossing procedures;
iv. a “need to know” policy;
v. documented and well defined
procedures for dealing with
conflicts of interest;
vi. steps by Compliance to ensure
that the Chinese Wall/Cell
arrangements remain effective
and that such arrangements are
adequately monitored.
U.S: Westpac operates in the
United States of America as a
federally licensed branch, regulated

by the Office of the Comptroller of
the Currency. Westpac is also
registered with the US Commodity
Futures Trading Commission
(“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is
neither registered as, or affiliated
with, a Futures Commission
Merchant registered with the US
CFTC.

===== Page 344 =====

respect to Westpac apply equally
to WCM.
Investing in any non-U.S. securities
or related financial instruments
mentioned in this communication
may present certain risks. The
securities of non-U.S. issuers may
not be registered with, or be
subject to the regulations of, the
SEC in the United States.
Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial
instruments may be limited. Non-
U.S. companies may not subject to
audit and reporting standards and

regulatory requirements
comparable to those in effect in the
United States. The value of any
investment or income from any
securities or related derivative
instruments denominated in a
currency other than U.S. dollars is
subject to exchange rate
fluctuations that may have a
positive or adverse effect on the
value of or income from such
securities or related derivative
instruments.
The author of this communication is
employed by Westpac and is not

indicator of future performance.
The forecasts given in this
document are predictive in
character. Whilst every effort has
been taken to ensure that the
assumptions on which the
forecasts are based are reasonable,
the forecasts may be affected by
incorrect assumptions or by known
or unknown risks and uncertainties.
The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from these forecasts.

===== Page 345 =====

+64 9 336 5668
+64 21 710 852
Cotality –Westpac
First Home Buyer Report
About Cotality
Cotality is a leading property
information, analytics and
services provider in the
United States, Australia and
New Zealand. It has recently
rebranded from CoreLogic.
Cotality helps clients
identify and manage growth
opportunities, improve
performance and mitigate
risk, by providing them with
innovative, technology-
based services and access
to rich data and analytics.

Whilst all reasonable effort
is made to ensure the
information in this
publication is current,
Cotality does not warrant
the accuracy, currency or
completeness of the data
and commentary contained
in this publication and to the
full extent not prohibited by
law excludes all loss or
damage arising in
connection with the data
and commentary contained
in this publication.

===== Page 346 =====

May 2026
Get the latest
property news
and insights
cotality.com/nz/insights
westpac.co.nz/economics
