# Financial Report Source 08

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 011: 20260520【投研報告】市場快訊_美伊僵局疊加通膨壓力下的股債投資策略

Source PDF: all report pdf/20260520【投研報告】市場快訊_美伊僵局疊加通膨壓力下的股債投資策略.pdf
Report source: Yuanta (市場評論)
Date: 2026-05-20
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決
策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資風險，自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧，本行不負任何法律責任。本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為圓
大銀行所有，非經本行同意，不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散布。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕
不另行通知。
美伊僵局疊加通膨壓力下的股債投資策略
2026 年 5 月 20 日
一、美國近日股債市場齊跌
1.  長中短期公債殖利率全面走高：美國各年期公債殖利率自 5/14 以來同步拉升。美國
10 年期公債利率由 5/14 的 4.48%上揚至 5/19 的 4.65%，上揚約 17bps。30 年期
美國公債殖利率 5/19 盤中也一度上漲 7 個基點至 5.20%，創下 2007 年全球金融
危機爆發前夕以來的最高水平，歐洲和日本的債券殖利率同步攀升(價格下跌)。
2. 全球股市同步下跌，科技類股跌幅較深：以美股為主的全球股票指數美債殖利率大幅

上揚而出現修正，5/14~5/19 期間，S&P 500 下跌 1.97% 收 7,353.77 點；科技
股回吐前波漲幅，那斯達克綜合指數下跌 1.54% 收 25,870.71 點；費城半導體指
數下跌 6.36%，收在 11,305 點。
二、下跌原因
1. 美國通膨數據高於預期：上週二、三美國所公布的 CPI 與 PPI 等通膨數據雙雙高於預
期。美國 4 月 CPI 年增 3.8%，為 2023 年 5 月以來最大增幅 ； 核心 CPI 月增 0.4%
、年增 2.8%，均高於預估；PPI 也創 2022 年 3 月以來最大單月增幅，年增率也來
到 6.0%。儘管數據公布當下，市場並未反應，但川習會與中東戰事等後續的事件發
展引發投資人對於 Fed 貨幣政策的疑慮。
2. 中東戰事歹戲拖棚，通膨疑慮持續升溫：市場原對上週的川習會寄予期待，希望在美
伊衝突上能否取得進展，化解地緣風險。然而，川習會後美中僅就部分非敏感商品（
約 300 億美元規模）達成貿易擴大的共識，但雙方並未就伊朗問題提出實質方案。

投資人在川普離開北京後隨即將注意力轉回美伊戰場，對 「油價回穩、通膨降溫」之

### Page 2

確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決
策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資風險，自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧，本行不負任何法律責任。本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為圓
大銀行所有，非經本行同意，不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散布。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕
不另行通知。
期待頓時落空，隨後更一度傳出美國與以色列計劃再度襲擊伊朗，雖然該計劃宣布暫
緩，但川普 5/19 又放話最快將於週五展開軍事行動。中東戰事的消息反覆，使投資
人對於未來通膨的預期升溫，也導致市場開始出現年底前聯準會可能升息的預期，推
升了包含美國在內的全球主要國家公債殖利率上揚。
三、股債市分析
1. 股市短線面臨修正，惟中期基本面仍佳：我們認為本波修正為「估值消化」而非「成
長動能轉折」。理由有二：一、債券殖利率上行使股價折現模型中的折現率提高，導
致以預期股利或企業金流推算出的折現值下降，對於未來獲利依賴越深的資產 （如：

科技股、尚未獲利成長股） 價格壓力越大，但這純粹為估值層面的反應，與企業基本
面無涉。同時，我們認為以目前全球對於 AI 需求的方興未艾，加上企業運用 AI 將逐
步反應在獲利增長的層面，將可望抵消大部分殖利率上揚所帶來的衝擊。同時，不論
是 S&P500、那斯達克或是費城半導體指數今年以來(特別是 4 月)以來已累積極為可
觀之漲幅，一旦市場出現利空因素本就易引發投資人賣壓，期間漲幅最大的半導體與
AI 概念股跌幅相對較大亦不令人意外。因此，我們傾向認為近期股市的修正為「利
率重新訂價＋漲多回吐」之健康修正。
2. 債券殖利率曲線料持續陡峭化，不利長天期公債價格表現：我們 4 月下旬在分析華許
在參議院聽證會的發言時，便已提出其主張可能導致「美債殖利率陡峭化」與「債市
波動性恐將加大」的想法。彭博週一公布 4/30~5/13 期間的調查顯示(見下圖)，118
名參與者中有 64% 預期華許上任後，美債利率將出現某種形式的陡峭化 ， 其中熊市
陡峭化（長率升速>短率升速）是主流觀點(佔比近 30%)。前述調查結果也印證了我

們先前的想法。未來若債券殖利率曲線呈現陡峭化(不論是熊市、牛市或是扭轉陡峭
化)，短中天期的債券的殖利率表現都將相對優於長天期債券，加上短天期債券的存
續期間本就低於長天期公債，因此當債市出現逆風時，短天期債券價格表現將優於長
天期債券。此外，就今年以來的彭博公債指數表現來看，也可看出較中短天期的公債
總報酬優於長天期公債表現。

### Page 3

確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決
策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資風險，自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧，本行不負任何法律責任。本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為圓
大銀行所有，非經本行同意，不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散布。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕
不另行通知。
四、投資建議
1. 美股短空長多，拉回仍可布局：美股(尤其科技類股)在歷經 4 月大幅上漲後，投資人
因市場利空因素而獲利了結，導致股價修正並不令人意外，基於市場對於 AI 的需求
並未消失，且成長增速亦未見減緩，我們認為美國企業營運及獲利動能可望抵消美國
貨幣政策的變動。因此，投資人仍可在市場拉回時分批布局美國科技、半導體、AI 基
礎建設等相關受惠類股，建立中長線投資部位。
2. 債券投資聚焦中短天期公債/投資級債：目前債券殖利率水準明顯高於其歷史均值，
我們認為站在息收(Carry)的角度，仍具有長線投資價值。此外，由於預期美債殖利

率曲線趨向陡峭化，再加上長天期公債本就有較高的存續期間，故就債券價格來看，
短天期公債/投資級債券的表現料將優於長天期公債/投資級債券，因此我們仍維持債
券投資聚焦中短天期公債/投資級債的建議。

---
## Document 183: 5月通胀：供需何以再平衡？

Source PDF: all report pdf/5月通胀：供需何以再平衡？.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

国联⺠⽣认为， 5 ⽉ PPI 同⽐冲⾼⾄近 46 个⽉新⾼，主因供给端尤其是油价驱动，但环⽐动
能已边际放缓；上游与下游、 CPI 与 PPI 的剪⼑差⾛阔，凸显供强需弱。 CPI 端服务项⾛
弱、核⼼通胀回落，反映需求收缩。下半年 “ 再通胀 ” 能否延续，关键在于需求端能否接棒供
给端。
摘要：
5 ⽉ PPI 同⽐冲⾼的 “ ⾼光 ” 之下，环⽐动能却在边际收敛， “ 再通胀 ” 步⼊去伪存真的关键验证
期。5 ⽉ PPI 同⽐以 3.9% 的增速冲⾄近 46 个⽉新⾼，抢占了 5 ⽉数据的 “ ⾼光 ” 。但转观环⽐，随着
国际油价⾼位回落， PPI 环⽐的放缓信号已悄然显现（ 1.7% 降⾄ 0.5% ）。前期驱动价格上涨的⽀
撑⼒正在减弱，下半年 “ 再通胀 ” 之路能否延续，还需更多维度审视。
当供给脉冲退潮，需求端能否在下半年 “ 接棒 ” 助⼒涨价？虽然⼆季度 GDP 平减指数转正已是⼤
概率事件，但 5 ⽉ CPI 与 PPI 同⽐的剪⼑差进⼀步⾛阔，同时上游与下游的价差也在持续拉⼤，

“ ⾮对称涨价 ” 传达出供强需弱的信号，下半年价格能否找到新的平衡⾯临⼀定阻碍。
从本期数据来看，供给侧是 PPI 同⽐创下近四年来⾼点的绝对推动。市场皆知，油价因素是此次
PPI 上⾏的绝对主导 —— 据我们测算，此轮 PPI 冲⾼主要由供给端驱动；从产业链看，上游继续
成为涨价的主⼒（ 5 ⽉上、中、下游对 PPI 的拉动分别为 3.6 、 0.3 、 0.0 个百分点），拉动效应由上
游到下游依次递减，说明价格传导仍不畅，中下游⾏业的利润压⼒依然不⼩。
涨价之下，需注意⾏业间的价格分化依然突出。5 ⽉ PPI 同⽐涨幅靠前的⾏业主要是上游，如有
⾊⾦属矿采及冶炼、⽯油天然⽓开采（ 5 ⽉ PPI 同⽐ +35.7% ）、⽯油和煤炭燃料加⼯
（ +18.4% ）；⽽与内需挂钩的⾏业价格修复暂未改善，汽⻋（ -2.0% ）、酒饮料制造（ -1.9% ）、
纺织服装（ -1.4% ）等价格仍在低位徘徊。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
CPI 端，供给侧脉冲扰动缓解，核⼼通胀显现需求收缩特征。5 ⽉ CPI 供给端相对需求的⾮对称扰
动有所减弱。伴随国际油价上⾏向国内传导的压⼒阶段性减轻，交通⼯具⽤燃料环⽐由前值
11.5% 的⾼位骤降⾄ -0.3% ，能源项对通胀的脉冲式拉动趋于下降。
但需求端，核⼼ CPI 环⽐重回负增⻓，映射⾼物价对下游需求的负反馈机制。尤其是服务分项斜
率明显⾛弱（ 0.5% ⼤幅回落⾄ -0.1% ），跌⾄季节性低位。这⼀变化既源于节后出⾏相关需求⾃
然回落的季节性因素，也反映出输⼊性通胀带来的消费挤出效应逐步显现。
与服务项的疲弱不同，政策推动下消费品通胀⾛势相对平稳。5 ⽉消费品 CPI 环⽐虽然回落
⾄ -0.2% ，但相较服务分项波动更⼩，且环⽐处于季节性偏⾼位置。这⼀结构性背离，主要源于

近期 “ 以旧换新 ” 配套资⾦加速落地，对冲了商品消费的⾛弱，构成了需求侧的⾮对称⽀撑。
本⽂来源：国联⺠⽣宏观钟渝梅

### Page 3

126 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 223: Allianz Global Insurance Report 2026_ The future of insurance in a fragmenting world

Source PDF: all report pdf/Allianz Global Insurance Report 2026_ The future of insurance in a fragmenting world.pdf
Report source: Allianz Trade
Date: 2026-05-28
Pages: 31
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

28 May 2026
Allianz Research
Allianz Global Insurance
Report 2026: The future of
Allianz
Trade
insurance in a fragmenting
world

### Page 2

Allianz Research
2
Content
Page 3-4
Executive Summary
Page 5-11
Looking back: From boom to normalization
Page 12-15
The changing risk landscape
Page 16-22
Looking ahead: Insurance remains a
growth industry
Page 23-25
The next frontier: Climate risk, affordability
and the future of insurability
Page 26-27
Appendix

### Page 3

28 May 2026
• The insurance industry is cooling from exceptional growth, not slowing
into weakness. Global premiums rose by +7.1% to EUR6.9trn in 2025, adding
EUR456bn to the global premium pool. Although growth moderated from the
exceptional +9.4% recorded in 2024, it remained comfortably above the ten-
year CAGR of +5.6%, confirming that the industry’s growth drivers remain firmly
intact. Life insurance remained the largest segment (EUR2,861bn; +EUR185bn

in 2025), followed by P&C (EUR2,320bn; +EUR85bn) and health (EUR1,688bn;
+EUR185bn).
• Asia remains the structural center of growth even as advanced markets
outperform cyclically. Western Europe grew nearly twice as fast as its 2015–
2025 average, while emerging market growth softened as China slowed to
+7.4%, more than 3pps below its long-term average. Excluding China and
Japan, however, Asia remained the industry’s fastest-growing major region, with

premium growth accelerating to +10.9% versus a long-term average of +4.9%.
• Much of the industry’s recent expansion reflects higher prices rather than
materially broader coverage. Global insurance penetration rose only modestly
to 7.2% of GDP in 2025 and remains below levels seen a decade ago. The
disconnect is most visible in P&C, where penetration has stagnated around
2.5% of GDP despite strong premium growth. Trends across business lines are
diverging: health-insurance penetration rose from 1.4% of GDP in 2015 to 1.8% in

2025, while life insurance at 3.0% remains well below the levels above 4% seen
two decades ago.
• The P&C boom is normalizing while life and health remain structurally
strong. Global P&C growth slowed to +3.8% in 2025 as pricing cycles matured
and claims inflation stabilized. North America remained dominant, accounting
for 52% of global P&C premiums, while Asia continued to exhibit the world’s
largest protection gap, with penetration of just 1.3% compared with 4.3% in

North America. Life insurance grew by a still robust +6.9%, though the US annuity
boom is fading. Health insurance remained the industry’s strongest growth story,
expanding by +12.3%, the fastest pace since 2014, driven by rising medical costs
and growing demand for private healthcare protection.
• Despite Asia’s rise, global insurance remains overwhelmingly dominated by
the US. North America increased its share of global premiums from 42.5% to
46.4% over the past decade, meaning that almost every second euro written

globally now originates from the region. China has emerged as a clear number
two, increasing its market share from 7.5% to 10.9%. Yet, at EUR746bn in
premiums, it remains less than a quarter of the size of the North America market
at EUR3,191bn. Western Europe, by contrast, will continue to lose relative weight
across most business lines.
3
Summary
Executive
Michaela Grimm
Senior Economist,
Demography & Social Protection
michaela.grimm@allianz.com

Rozalia Papaioannou
Research Assistant
rozalia.papaioannou@allianz.com
Hazem Krichene
Senior Economist, Climate
hazem.krichene@allianz.com

### Page 4

Allianz Research
4
• Geopolitics and fragmentation are becoming central forces shaping the
insurance industry. The Iran war is acting as a major external supply shock,
disrupting energy markets, trade flows and supply chains. In our central scenario,
global GDP growth is expected to slow to +2.6% in 2026, while Eurozone growth
will fall to just +0.8%. If the conflict is not resolved during the summer, we expect
additional upward pressure on inflation and a materially worse global growth

outlook. More broadly, geopolitical fragmentation is creating a structurally
more complex operating environment, challenging assumptions around global
integration, capital mobility and cross-border risk diversification. Insurers will
need to adapt by building more regionally resilient operating models, integrating
geopolitical analysis more directly into underwriting and capital allocation and
developing products tailored to emerging risks such as cyber escalation. While

fragmentation raises costs and operational complexity, it also increases demand
for protection and resilience, reinforcing the strategic relevance of insurance in a
more uncertain global environment.
• Protection remains a structurally growing need in an increasingly uncertain
and ageing world. The global insurance market is expected to expand by
+5.3% annually over the next decade, driven by rising demand for protection,
demographic change, higher interest rates and growing health and retirement

needs. Health insurance is projected to remain the fastest-growing segment
at +6.7% p.a., followed by life insurance at +4.9% and P&C at +4.7%. Asia,
particularly China and India, will remain the main growth engine, adding 5pps to
their global market share, while North America is expected to retain its dominant
global market position at roughly 46%. Europe, by contrast, is likely to continue
ceding global market share over the coming decade (-4pps).

• Asia will generate most of the industry’s future growth, with India emerging
as the standout opportunity.  The global premium pool is expected to expand
by EUR5,260bn by 2036, with more than half of additional premiums originating
in Asia. China will remain the region’s dominant market, but India is expected to
emerge as the fastest-growing major insurance market. Despite already ranking
among the world’s ten largest, India remains significantly underinsured, with

penetration of just 3.8% of GDP and per capita spending of roughly EUR85. Rising
incomes, demographic change and recent reforms are expected to drive annual
premium growth of around +10.7% over the next decade.
• Climate change is turning insurance affordability into a structural challenge
for the industry. Insured NatCat losses are rising by +5–7% annually in real terms,
while higher premiums are increasingly colliding with weakening household
purchasing power. The result is widening protection gaps, pushing lower-income

households out of coverage. As affordability deteriorates, more climate losses
are shifting onto already strained public balance sheets. Preserving long-term
insurability will require moving beyond repricing toward stronger adaptation
incentives, resilience-focused underwriting, targeted affordability mechanisms
and deeper public-private risk-sharing frameworks, supported by large-scale
investment in climate adaptation and resilient infrastructure.

### Page 5

28 May 2026
5
Looking back: From boom to
The global insurance industry returned to a more
sustainable growth trajectory in 2025, with total
gross written premiums (GWP) rising by +7.1% to
EUR6.9trn. The expansion added EUR456bn to the
global premium pool over the course of 2025. The life
segment remained the largest (EUR2,861bn; +EUR185bn
in 2025), followed by P&C (EUR2,320bn; +EUR85bn) and
health (EUR1,688bn; +EUR185bn). However, growth
decelerated from the exceptional +9.4% recorded in

2024, returning the industry toward a more sustainable
trajectory after two years of super-charged growth.
Crucially, even at this more moderate pace, the 2025
rate remained comfortably above the ten-year CAGR of
+5.6%, confirming that the structural growth drivers that
have fueled the global insurance market expansion since
the mid-2010s remain in place. Over the full decade from
2015 to 2025, total GWP expanded from EUR3.97trn
to EUR6.87trn – a cumulative addition of more than

EUR2.9trn, driven by rising insurance penetration,
expanding middle classes in emerging economies and
the continued broadening of coverage across all three
major segments.
Much of the industry’s recent premium growth reflects
higher prices rather than a comparable deepening
of insurance protection. With consumer price inflation
running at approximately 2–3% across major markets
in 2025, part of the headline growth merely reflects
inflationary pass-through rather than additional

coverage written. Insurance penetration, measured
as premiums relative to GDP , increased only modestly to
7.2% in 2025 from 7.0% in 2024 and remains below the
7.3% recorded a decade earlier. This divergence between
nominal premium growth and real insurance deepening
has become a defining feature of the post-2022 insurance
cycle. While the industry has expanded substantially in
monetary terms, the share of economic activity devoted
to insurance has yet to recover to its long-run level. The

disconnect is particularly visible in P&C, where higher
claims costs have driven pricing increases without
materially expanding insurance penetration.
The trend in global insurance penetration is increasingly
uneven across business lines, with P&C broadly stable,
health steadily gaining relevance and life insurance still
recovering from the ultra-low-rate era. P&C penetration
has remained broadly stable at around 2.5% of GDP , while
health insurance has steadily gained importance, rising

from 1.4% of GDP in 2015 to 1.8% in 2025 as demand for
private healthcare protection increased. Life insurance,
by contrast, continues to recover only gradually from the
prolonged period of ultra-low interest rates. Although
penetration has edged back up since 2022 to 3.0% of GDP
in 2025, it is still below the 3.5% a decade earlier as the
segment remains well below historical norms (Figure 1).
The longer-term decline is even more striking: two decades

ago, global life insurance penetration exceeded 4% of
GDP.
normalization

### Page 6

Allianz Research
6
Growth remains strong globally, but the center
of momentum is shifting as advanced markets
outperform cyclically while Asia retains its structural
growth lead. While all major regions grew faster than
their respective long-term averages in 2025, advanced
markets were the main drivers of this acceleration, with
Western Europe (+6.1%) expanding nearly twice as fast
as its 2015-2025 average. Emerging market growth, by
contrast, softened relative to the past decade, largely

reflecting slower expansion in China, which accounts
for almost 60% of the emerging market aggregate.
Chinese premium growth slowed to +7.4% in 2025, more
than 3pps below its long-term average. While this is
to a large extent a function of past excellence rather
than a weak current performance, nominal growth has
also been held back by annual inflation registering just
above 0%. Meanwhile Asia¹ (when excluding China and
Japan) continues to significantly outperform Europe and

North America, with premium growth reaching +10.9%
in 2025 compared with a long-term average of +4.9%,
reinforcing its position as the industry’s key structural
growth market.
Figure 1: Premium growth remains ahead of GDP
Global gross written premiums* and nominal GDP growth* (y/y, in %) and global gross written premiums* as % of GDP by segments
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.

¹  Throughout the report, Asia always refers to the region excluding China and Japan. If both countries are included, we use the term wider Asia.
-2,0
0,0
2,0
4,0
6,0
8,0
10,0
12,0
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
GWP (life, p&c and health) GDP
3,5 3,0
2,4
2,4
1,4 1,8
2015 2025
life p&c health

### Page 7

28 May 2026
7
The global P&C market is entering a phase of
normalization after several years of exceptional
pricing-driven growth. The segment grew by +3.8% in
2025 to reach EUR2,320bn globally, a notably softer
performance than both the overall market and the
segment’s own ten-year CAGR of +5.6%, as well as
last year’s growth of +8.5%. The moderation reflects
a maturing pricing cycle. After several years of sharp
rate increases across motor, property and specialty

lines, pricing has started to normalize in some regions,
while claims costs, although still elevated, are no longer
accelerating at the pace seen in 2022 and 2023. North
America² remains the undisputed center of global P&C
activity, accounting for 52.0% of world P&C premiums,
with EUR1,205bn written in 2025. However, regional
growth slowed to +2.2% from +9.7% in the previous year,
reflecting both a more mature rate cycle and a -6.3%
decline in US accident & health premiums³ that weighed

on overall market growth (US: +2.2%); excluding A&H,
however, the US P&C market is estimated to have grown
by 4.1% ⁴(Figure 3).
Western Europe’s P&C market posted solid growth in
2025, although the exceptional post-inflation growth
surge is now beginning to normalize.  Premiums grew
by +5.3% to EUR529bn, a solid expansion but notably
below the exceptionally strong growth rates of +8.5%
in 2023 and +6.8% in 2024 as inflation pressures
continued to ease. Performance across the region

was increasingly uneven. Southern European markets
remained particularly dynamic, with several recording
high single-digit growth above +8%, while Scandinavia, the
UK, Belgium and Switzerland expanded more modestly at
around +1% to +4%. Among the largest Eurozone markets,
growth remained comparatively robust, led by Germany at
+7.7%, France at +7.0%, Spain at +6.5% and Italy at +6.4%.
Wider Asia P&C premiums grew by +4.1% to EUR391bn
in 2025, broadly in line with the previous year. Yet despite

a population more than six times larger than Western
Europe’s, the region’s P&C market remains significantly
smaller. The gap is equally visible in insurance penetration
and spending levels. P&C penetration stands at just 1.3%
in wider Asia and 1.1% in China, compared with 2.5% in
Western Europe and 4.3% in North America. Per capita P&C
spending reached only EUR98 across Asia (China: EUR135),
compared with EUR1,232 in Western Europe and EUR3,111
in North America. These disparities underline the scale of

structural underinsurance and the region’s long-term catch
up potential.
China is by far the largest market in the wider region,
accounting for almost every second euro written. At
+2.6% China registered one of the weakest performances
in recent years outside the Covid-19 period and well below
the country’s average growth rate of +6.6% over the past
decade. The slowdown largely reflects China’s relatively
muted nominal growth dynamics. All other insurance

markets (rest of the world) recorded growth of +9.7% in
the P&C segment, driven by strong (largely inflationary)
increases of above +10% in Eastern Europe and Latin
America.
Figure 2: 2025 growth outpaces long-term average
Gross written premium growth*, 2025 and CAGR 2015-2025 by region in %
2,1
7,4
10,5
10,9
6,1
6,9
7,1
0,8
10,6
6,9
4,9
3,5
6,5
5,6
JPN
CHN
Rest of the World
Asia ex JPN &…
Western Europe
North America
World CAGR 2015-2025
2025
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.

Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.
²  96% of P&C premiums in North America are written in the US; the rest is attributable to Canada.
³   In this report, Accident & Health (A&H) premiums written by Life/A&H entities are included in the US P&C market figures, consistent with our gene -
ral approach of classifying accident lines as part of the P&C market.

⁴ This estimate is based on growth in net premiums written as direct written premium figures had not yet been published at the time of writing.

### Page 8

Allianz Research
8
Figure 3: Europe and Wider Asia power ahead
P&C gross written premium growth* and market share by region, 2025 in %
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.
The life insurance boom is cooling in North America,
while Asia is reasserting itself as the industry’s main
growth engine. Global life insurance premiums grew by

+6.9% in 2025, a clear moderation from the exceptionally
strong +11.3% recorded in 2024 but still a robust
performance by historical standards. The slowdown was
driven primarily by North America, where the annuity
boom triggered by households locking in higher interest
rates has begun to lose momentum. Growth leadership
has now shifted back toward Asia (Figure 4).
Higher interest rates continue to support life insurance
globally, but regional momentum is increasingly

diverging. In Western Europe, life premium growth
moderated to +6.5% in 2025 from +9.9% in the previous
year, although higher rates continued to support
savings products. Performance remained uneven
across markets. France, the Netherlands, Finland and
Portugal posted another year of double-digit growth,
while Switzerland continued to lag. Germany returned
to positive territory with growth of +5.3%. Wider Asia
recorded healthy +9.9% growth in 2025, with the majority

of markets posting strong double-digit gains.
As a result, Asia as a whole remains the largest life
insurance market, well ahead of North America
and Europe (Figure 4), reflecting both demographic
pressures and weaker public pension systems. This is
also reflected in insurance penetration, which stands at
3.3% in Asia, driven by the popularity of life products in
advanced Asian markets such as South Korea, Taiwan
and Singapore. But China at 2.5% and India at 2.8%

already approach North American levels of 2.8%,
although still below Western Europe’s 4.3%. These
relatively high Asian penetration rates reflect greater
reliance on private retirement savings in the absence
of comprehensive public pension systems. By contrast,
North America’s comparatively low penetration partly
reflects the widespread use of occupational retirement
schemes such as 401(k) plans.
4,1
2,6
9,7
6,1
5,3
2,2
3,8
JPN
CHN
Rest of the World

Asia ex JPN & CHN
Western Europe
North America
World
52,0
22,8
16,9
8,4
North America
Western Europe
Wider Asia
Rest of the World

### Page 9

28 May 2026
9
Figure 4: Asia pulls further ahead
Life gross written premium growth* and market share by region, 2025 in %
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.
1,5
11,4
11,2
13,1
6,5
3,2
6,9
JPN
CHN
Rest of the World
Asia ex JPN & CHN
Western Europe
North America
World
⁵  In general, data visibility of health-insurance premiums is still rather low. Often, health premiums are included in other segments as health covera -

ge is seen as part of other products and not separately reported; in Japan, for instance, health is treated as “third sector products” within life.
27,7
32,0
35,6
4,7
North America
Western Europe
Wider Asia
R es t of the World
Health insurance⁵ remains the industry’s fastest-
growing segment, driven by rising medical costs
and increasing demand for private protection . The
US continues to dominate the global health market,
accounting for more than 70% of worldwide health

premiums (Figure 5). In many other markets, private
health insurance is still a niche segment, albeit a very
dynamic one: global premium growth averaged +8.5%
p.a. over the last decade with particularly strong rates in
recent years as Covid-19 boosted demand for additional
health protection. In 2025, global health premiums
increased by +12.3%, the strongest expansion since 2014,
driven largely by North America where medical inflation
pushed growth to +14.9%.

Despite a recent normalization in parts of Asia, the
region’s low health-insurance penetration continues
to point to substantial long-term growth potential.
Health-insurance growth in wider Asia slowed to +3.4%
in 2025, reflecting a sharp deceleration in China, where
growth dropped to just +2%. However, many markets
including Indonesia, Singapore, Hong Kong, Thailand
and India continued to record double-digit growth,
with several accelerating further in 2025. This strong

momentum partially reflects the still low penetration
in the region, which is below 1% in all markets except
Taiwan. Even more than in life insurance, demand is
mainly driven by the status of the social security system,
i.e. the coverage and quality of the public healthcare
system. This explains why even in some developed
markets, such as the Scandinavian markets, private
health insurance is almost non-existent.

### Page 10

Allianz Research
10
The global insurance industry remains
overwhelmingly dominated by the US despite the rise
of China and broader Asia. Unlike many other industries
where traditional markets are losing importance to new
emerging markets, the global insurance industry is still
dominated by the US. In fact, over the past decade, the
North American insurance market has increased its
share of global premiums from 42.5% to 46.4%, meaning
that almost every second euro written globally now

originates from the region. On the other hand, other
„old“ markets such as Western Europe (-4.9pps) and
Japan (-2.5pps) behaved more or less as expected,
losing market share mainly to China, which boosted
its global share from 7.5% to 10.9%. However, the gap
with the North America market is still huge: while the
Chinese market is already the clear number two in terms
of premium income (EUR746bn in 2025), it is dwarfed
by the North America market, which generates more

than four times as much premium income (EUR3,191bn).
Given this huge discrepancy, it does not look like the US
dominance in global insurance will end any time soon
(Figure 6).
Figure 5: No slowdown in sight
Health gross written premium growth* and market share by region, 2025 in %
2,0
11,2
8,2
6,7
14,9
12,3
CHN
Rest of the World
Asia ex JPN & CHN
Western Europe
North America
World
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.

Figure 6: US dominance remains unchallenged
Total gross written premiums*, 2015 and 2025 by region in %
42,5
29,2
8,8
7,5
6,4 5,7
46,4
24,3
8,1
10,9
3,9
6,4North America
Western Europe
Asia ex JPN & CHN
CHN
JPN
Rest of the World
2025
2015
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.
70,7
13,4
9,3

6,6
North America
Western Europe
Wider Asia
R es t of the World

### Page 11

28 May 2026
11
Figure 7: Western Europe continues to lose ground
Share of absolute premium growth* by region, 2015 - 2025 in %
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2024 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.
The past decade has reshaped the global insurance
market unevenly across regions and business lines.
North America accounted for 52% of additional

global P&C premiums and 71% of additional health
premiums over the past ten years, underlining the
region’s overwhelming importance in both segments.
In life insurance, however, the picture is more balanced.
Despite the recent US annuity boom, only around one-
third of additional life premiums originated in North
America, while wider Asia captured by far the largest
share of global growth. Western Europe, by contrast,
continues to lose relative weight across all major

business lines, falling behind not only the US market but
increasingly also wider Asia.
Another notable shift is the growing convergence in
absolute premium growth across segments. Although
life insurance remains substantially larger in size at
EUR2,861bn compared with EUR2,320bn in P&C and
EUR1,688bn in health, the absolute increase in premium
volumes has recently been broadly similar. While life
insurance growth was constrained for years by ultra-low

interest rates, health insurance has benefited strongly
from the post-Covid increase in risk awareness and
demand for private health protection (Figure 7).
30,9
22,4
42,7
4,0
North America
Western Europe
Wider Asia
Rest of the
World
life:
+EUR1,054bn
52,0
20,1
16,7
11,3
p&c:
+EUR1,044bn
72,6
8,0
12,5
6,9
health:
+EUR998bn

### Page 12

Allianz Research
12
The global economy has entered a period of
heightened uncertainty as the Iran war acts as a
significant external supply shock, disrupting energy
markets, raising transport costs and fragmenting
supply chains. The result is renewed inflationary
pressure alongside weaker growth at a time when
the global outlook was already fragile. The scale and
persistence of the economic impact remain highly
uncertain and will depend critically on how the conflict

evolves.
In our central scenario, in which a US-Iran agreement
struck during the summer months leads to a
normalization of oil and gas trade before the end
of the year, we forecast global GDP growth of 2.6%
in 2026, revised down by 0.5pp from pre-conflict
expectations.  The impact across major economies
is uneven. In the US, growth is expected to remain
The changing risk landscape
Economic and capital market outlook
relatively more robust at +2.0% as substantial investment

in artificial-intelligence infrastructure and stronger
private consumption driven by tax cuts largely offset the
energy shock. China would also prove comparatively
resilient at +4.7%, supported by a more diversified
energy mix and solid external demand. Europe, however,
would bear the heaviest burden. Eurozone growth
would nearly halve to +0.7% as the region’s greater
dependence on energy imports adds to longstanding
structural weaknesses that continue to constrain

economic momentum.
Inflation is set to rise on both sides of the Atlantic in
2026, interrupting the gradual normalization seen
over the past year. In the US, the energy shock will
push inflation back toward levels last seen during the
post-pandemic surge. CPI inflation is forecast to rise to
3.6% in 2026, peaking at around 4.0% around mid-year

### Page 13

28 May 2026
13
before gradually easing as energy prices stabilize and
weaker activity dampens underlying price pressures.
The Fed is expected to raise rates by 25bps in 2026,
largely looking through the energy-driven spike as the
risk of inflation expectations becoming de-anchored
appears contained. After all, unlike in 2022, labor
markets are softer and monetary conditions are no
longer highly accommodative, limiting the scope for
broad-based second-round effects. In the Eurozone,

inflation dynamics would be similar in direction but more
persistent in profile. Headline CPI is forecast at 3.1% for
2026 as the pass-through from higher wholesale gas
prices into household utility bills keeps inflation elevated
for longer than in the US. This leaves the ECB in an
uncomfortable position: inflation is rising above target
just as growth weakens sharply. We forecast the ECB
to hike rates by 50bps in 2026, with a focus on keeping
inflation expectations in check.

Government bond markets are undergoing a sharp
repricing as the energy shock pushes inflation
expectations higher while simultaneously weakening
the growth outlook . Long-term sovereign yields are
rising as investors demand greater compensation for
inflation risk and increasingly question the sustainability
of large fiscal deficits in a weaker growth environment.
On balance, we expect 10-year Treasury yields to
reach 4.6% by year-end, with persistent fiscal deficits

of around 7% of GDP adding further upward pressure
on US borrowing costs. In Europe, 10-year Bund yields
are forecast at 3.0%, as weaker growth and safe-haven
demand from investors diversifying away from US
assets partially offset rising inflation expectations. In the
periphery, however, Italian and French borrowing costs
are increasing more sharply than Germany’s as markets
grow more concerned about the capacity of heavily
indebted sovereigns to absorb energy-related fiscal

pressures without compromising fiscal consolidation
commitments – a dynamic likely to intensify as France
approaches its 2027 election cycle.
Risks to the outlook remain clearly skewed to the
downside. A prolonged closure of the Strait of Hormuz
into fall would produce a materially more adverse
outcome. In this downside scenario, the Eurozone
economy would fall into technical recession, with annual
growth in 2026 slowing to just +0.2%, while US growth

would weaken sharply to +1.5% as equity market
corrections feed through to consumer confidence and
spending. Inflation would rise to 4.1% in the Eurozone
and 4.2% in the US, forcing central banks into a more
aggressive tightening response despite deteriorating
growth conditions – a policy dilemma with few good
options. Beyond the direct energy channel, a prolonged
conflict would amplify second-round effects through
weaker consumer confidence, rising insolvencies, tighter

financial conditions and growing fiscal strain across
energy-importing economies. At a time of weakening
international policy coordination and increasingly
constrained public finances, policymakers may have
less capacity to cushion additional shocks. In such an
environment, non-linear dynamics could emerge quickly,
turning an initial energy shock into a broader and more
persistent global downturn.

### Page 14

Allianz Research
14
The insurance industry was built for a world of open
capital flows, stable rules and predictable cross-
border commerce, and that world is receding . A
series of geopolitical shocks, from the US-China trade
conflict and the Covid-19 pandemic to the Russia-
Ukraine war and the US-Iran conflict, has accelerated
the fragmentation of trade, finance and supply chains,
pushing the global economy toward a more fractured
geoeconomic order. For insurers, this is not simply a

challenging macroeconomic backdrop but a structural
shift in the foundations of the global insurance business
model.
The question is no longer whether fragmentation
will reshape global insurance, but how far and how
fast. The assumptions that supported global operating
models for decades are weakening simultaneously:
capital is becoming less mobile, regulatory regimes are
diverging and borders are increasingly functioning as
strategic barriers rather than manageable operational

frictions. For insurers, this directly challenges the
foundations of global risk pooling. Insurance depends
on the ability to diversify exposures across geographies
and move capital and reinsurance capacity freely across
borders. Fragmentation weakens both. As cross-border
activity becomes more constrained, volatility in claims,
currencies and investment returns increases, while
regional pools struggle to replicate the efficiency and
resilience of global ones.

Regional pools are structurally less efficient
because fragmentation increases correlation across
exposures while reducing the fungibility of capital
and reinsurance. Political shocks increasingly affect
currencies, asset prices, trade flows and claims
simultaneously, weakening diversification benefits
precisely when they are most needed. At the same
time, sanctions risk, capital controls and regulatory
divergence increase the likelihood that capital becomes

trapped within jurisdictions during periods of stress,
forcing insurers to hold more capital against the
same underlying risks. This undermines one of the key
advantages of global insurance groups: efficient cross-
border capital allocation and diversification. As trapped
capital and duplicated solvency buffers rise, returns on
capital are likely to come under structural pressure. The
challenge is therefore no longer preserving the hyper-
globalized insurance model of the past, but maintaining

sufficient diversification and risk-sharing capacity in a
more regionalized world.
Regulatory fragmentation is reinforcing these
pressures. The decades of supervisory convergence that
produced Solvency II, IAIS standards and equivalence
regimes are giving way to more modular and bloc-
specific systems. Cross-border reinsurance recoveries,
sanctions compliance and contract enforceability can no
longer be treated as stable assumptions. Meanwhile, the

weakening of multilateral cooperation is amplifying the
very risks insurers must absorb. Climate change, cyber
threats, pandemics and financial instability all require
international coordination to contain; as geopolitical
rivalry undermines that cooperation, these risks become
larger, more interconnected and harder to price.
The investment consequences are equally significant.
Insurers collectively manage trillions in long-duration
assets and fragmentation permanently raises the cost

and complexity of deploying that capital globally.
When the movement of capital increasingly requires
political approval rather than responding to market
logic, global integration loses efficiency by design.
Currency and convertibility risks rise alongside political
tensions, sovereign risk becomes harder to hedge and
friendshoring creates exposures that are often less liquid
and operationally more complex.
The effects are unevenly distributed across business

lines. Political-risk insurance is experiencing a
structural increase in demand as multinational
companies move from treating geopolitical exposure
as episodic to embedding it permanently within
risk-management frameworks. In trade credit,
tariffs are squeezing margins and raising insolvency
risk, particularly among smaller companies exposed
to disrupted supply chains. Marine and aviation
insurers must navigate rerouted shipping lanes and
persistent geopolitical volatility; the closure of major

maritime chokepoints has shown how quickly coverage
availability and pricing can deteriorate when political
How geopolitical fragmentation impacts insurance

### Page 15

28 May 2026
15
risk crystallizes into physical disruption. State-
sponsored cyber threats are escalating, with attribution
challenges straining the boundaries of standard policy
language. In D&O, rising regulatory investigations and
extra-territorial enforcement actions are increasing
claims exposure for internationally active firms.
Retail insurance faces a more indirect but persistent
transmission through slower growth, higher inflation
and weaker household purchasing power.

At the same time, fragmentation is also creating
new insurable risk categories that reward analytical
capability and underwriting specialization. The
push for energy independence is increasing demand
for specialized engineering insurance, while industrial
policy initiatives including the CHIPS Act, European
sovereignty investment programs and rising defense
spending are generating substantial new property and
infrastructure exposures. Geopolitics is on balance a net

headwind for the sector’s long-term growth prospects,
but rising investment in defense, energy security,
cyber resilience and strategic infrastructure is creating
offsetting opportunities for insurance, risk transfer and
long-duration capital deployment.
The fact that the insurance sector has remained
broadly stable through successive geopolitical shocks
so far is no guarantee of future success. Capital
positions have remained healthy, combined ratios have

held and capacity has not materially decreased. This
is testament to the resilience of the insurance industry.
However, each shock raises the structural baseline,
which is not fully reversed during recovery periods. This
means that the industry has to reprice for a genuinely
higher level of structural risk. This makes strategically
adapting to a fragmenting world a matter of current
urgency.
The industry‘s strategic response must operate on
several levels simultaneously.

• First, operating models must become less
centralized and more regionally resilient. In a more
fragmented world, resilience and adaptability matter
more than pure scale efficiency. Capital must be
increasingly pre-positioned within jurisdictions rather
than assumed freely transferable, and entities must
be capable of operating with greater autonomy during
periods of geopolitical disruption. Scenario planning
must also replace narrow point forecasts. Tail risks

such as severe bloc bifurcation or financial decoupling
are no longer remote enough to ignore in strategic
planning, even if the most likely trajectory remains one of
escalating but contained protectionism.
• Second, portfolio and underwriting decisions must
incorporate explicit geopolitical assessment as a
systematic input rather than a qualitative overlay.
Insurers should classify markets along a clear spectrum
from core to optional to potential exit candidates,

combining underwriting analysis with regular
geopolitical, sanctions and affordability assessments
rather than making decisions reactively under pressure.
Stress testing must extend beyond financial variables
to include sanctions regimes, reinsurance enforceability
and diversification failure under fragmentation
scenarios. The industry cannot assume that mechanisms
designed for a globalized world will continue to function
under sustained geopolitical strain.

• Third, product strategy must evolve to address
the new exposures fragmentation is creating rather
than relying primarily on exclusions and silent
coverage. Recent conflicts have exposed significant
gaps in affirmative cover for war risk, political violence,
trade disruption, cyber escalation and supply-chain
interruption. Insurers that develop explicit and well-
priced solutions for these exposures will benefit from a
structural increase in corporate demand. Those that rely

primarily on exclusions risk marginalization from some of
the fastest-growing segments of the commercial market.
Fragmentation will reshape how the global insurance
industry operates.  A more regionalized world implies
higher capital requirements, weaker diversification
benefits and greater operational complexity. Yet the
same forces that reduce efficiency are also increasing
demand for protection, resilience and specialized risk
transfer. Insurance may become structurally more

complex and capital-intensive, but also strategically
more important.

### Page 16

Allianz Research
16
Looking ahead: Insurance
Insurance will remain a structural growth industry
over the next decade, although growth will become
more regionally uneven. We expect the global
insurance market to expand by +5.3% annually over the
next ten years, broadly in line with last year’s long-term
outlook. Beneath this stable headline picture, however,
regional dynamics are shifting meaningfully.
North America is likely to remain the industry’s

dominant profit and growth pool. Compared to last
year, our outlook for the region has become more
optimistic across all three business lines, particularly in
P&C. Three forces are driving this shift: the expected AI
investment boom and associated productivity gains,
continued increases in household spending on protection
– especially in health insurance – and elevated interest
rates supporting life and annuity products.
Europe faces a structurally weaker outlook. Our

view on Western Europe has become more cautious
compared with last year. The region is likely to continue
struggling with the fallout from higher energy costs
triggered by the escalation in the Middle East (see
Chapter 3 for more details), slower than expected
progress on strategic sovereignty and both weaker AI
investment and slower AI adoption than the US. As a
result, we expect European P&C growth to lag the US
over the next decade at +3.8% versus +4.1%. Although

rising natural-catastrophe losses should continue to
support premium growth, we now expect only a limited
increase in penetration rates, rising by just +0.1pp to 2.6%
by 2036.
Asia will remain the industry’s principal long-term
growth engine despite rising geopolitical headwinds.
We expect P&C growth in Asia to slow modestly relative
to previous forecasts as trade tensions and supply-
chain restructuring weigh on economic momentum.
Even so, projected annual growth of +6.2% in wider

Asia and +6.3% in China remains comfortably above
expected growth rates in Europe and North America.
Overall, we expect global P&C premiums to expand by
+4.7% annually through 2036 as demand for protection
continues to rise worldwide.
Life and health insurance will remain the industry’s
key structural growth segments. We expect life
insurance to grow at a CAGR of +4.9% over the next
decade, benefiting from elevated interest rates and
rising retirement needs. Asia and China should remain

the principal growth engines as demographic ageing
accelerates and pension systems continue to deepen.
Health insurance is expected to remain the industry’s
fastest growing segment at +6.7% annually, supported
by rising healthcare costs and still substantial unmet
demand, particularly across Asia (Figure 8).
remains a growth industry

### Page 17

28 May 2026
17
Figure 8: Solid growth
Gross written premium* growth, CAGR 2026 -2036 by region and segment in %
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research..
0,0 1,0 2,0 3,0 4,0 5,0 6,0 7,0 8,0 9,0
Rest of the World
Western Europe
North America
Asia ex JPN & CHN life p&c
Asia will generate most of the industry’s additional

premium growth. The global premium pool is expected
to expand by EUR5,260bn by 2036 (Figure 9), with life
insurance contributing the largest share at EUR1,991bn.
More than half of all additional premiums will originate
in Asia including China, exceeding the combined
contribution of North America and Europe. While China
will remain the region’s dominant market in absolute
terms with growth of +7.6% annually, India is expected to
emerge as the fastest-growing major market at +10.5%

annually, positioning it to challenge Japan as Asia’s
second-largest life insurance market by 2036.
Despite Asia’s rise, the US insurance market will remain
unrivaled in scale. Although North America’s share of
incremental P&C growth is expected to decline relative
to the previous decade, the US market will continue
to dominate globally. By 2036, US P&C premiums are
projected to exceed EUR1,800bn, almost five times
larger than China’s market and more than twice the size

of Europe’s. In health insurance, US dominance is even
more pronounced, with more than two-thirds of expected
global premium growth projected to originate from the
US market.
remains a growth industry

### Page 18

Allianz Research
18
Figure 9: Life remains on top
Share of additional gross written premiums* by 2036, by region in %
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.
Figure 10: North America, a slightly smaller giant
Total gross written premiums*, 2025 and 2036 by region in %
46,4
24,3
8,1
10,9
3,9 6,4

45,9
20,3
9,4
13,4
3,0
8,0
North America
Europe
Asia ex JPN & CHN
China
J apan
Rest of the World
2036
2025
*The conversion into EUR is based on 2025 exchange rates.
Sources: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices, Axco, LSEG Datastream, Allianz Research.
20,9
20,2
19,8
26,8
3,8
8,5
North
America
Eur ope
Asia ex
JPN  & CHN
China
J apan
Rest of the
World
life:
+EUR1,991bn
44,4
17,6
8,9
12,2
1,2
15,7

p&c:
+EUR1,505bn
73,0
7,3
3,3
9,3
7,2
health:
+EUR1,764bn
The global insurance map will continue shifting
eastward, albeit gradually. North America is expected
to retain a global market share of roughly 46% through
2036, surrendering only marginal ground over the
next decade (-0.5pp). India and China, by contrast, are
expected to continue gaining relevance, together adding
almost 4pps of global market share. Western Europe will
continue to lose relative weight. A glimmer of hope for

the Old Continent: while it lost 5.3pps of market share
in the last decade, it may lose „only“ 4pps in the next
decade (Figure 10).

### Page 19

28 May 2026
19
Indian insurance market deep dive – turning scale into depth
India ranks among the world‘s ten largest insurance
markets. But by almost every measure of depth, it
remains significantly underdeveloped. Despite double-
digit growth rates and total gross written premium
income of EUR124bn in 2025, insurance penetration
and density still indicate substantial pent-up demand. In
2025, total gross written premium income corresponded
to 3.8% of GDP compared to 4.4% in China or 5.1% in

Thailand. And while per-capita spending for insurance
amounted to the equivalent of around EUR527 in China
and EUR366 in Thailand, it was merely EUR85 in India
(Figure 11 and 12).
Figure 11: Insurance penetration, selected countries (gross written premiums in percent of GDP)
0,4
0,8
1,3
1,3
1,8
1,9
3,7
3,8
4,4
5,1
5,1
7,4
7,6
9,8
10,1
22,6
0 5 10 15 20 25
Laos
Pakistan
Sri Lanka
Indonesia
Vietnam
Philippines
Malaysia
India
China
Thailand
Asia
J apan

Singapore
South Korea
Taiwan
Hong Kong
total gross written premiums, 2025 (in %  of GDP)
Source: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices..
Figure 12: Insurance density, selected countries (gross written premiums per capita, in 2025 EUR)
8
11
46
55
68
74
85
366
393
433
527
2 154
2 981
3 413
6 758
11 157
0 2000 4000 6000 8000 10000 12000
Laos
Pakistan
Sri Lanka
Indonesia
Philippines
Vietnam
India
Thailand

Asia
Malaysia
China
J apan
South Korea
Taiwan
Singapore
Hong Kong
GWP per capita 2025 (in 2025 EUR)
Source: National financial supervisory authorities, insurance associations and statistical offices.
19

### Page 20

Allianz Research
⁶  See Axco (2025): Insurance market reports (non-life). India (as of March 2026) .
Life insurance dominates the market, but the non-
life and health segments reveal where the structural
gaps and the growth potential are most acute. India‘s
insurance market is dominated by the life insurance
segment, which accounted for 74% of total gross written
premium income in 2024. Non-life insurance premiums,
including personal accident and travel insurance,

accounted for 16% and health insurance accounted for
10% of total gross written premiums (see Figure 13).
Mandatory motor coverage is the backbone of non-
life insurance yet, half of all vehicles on Indian roads
remain uninsured, illustrating the gap between legal
requirements and market reality. As in most countries,
motor insurance was the most important business line
in the non-life segment (excluding health), with a share
of 52% in fiscal year 2024–2025. Third-party liability

business made up more than half of the motor segment
as such coverage is mandatory for all vehicles driven on
public roads. Nevertheless, it is estimated that over 50%
of vehicles remain uninsured⁶.  Given the importance
of the agricultural sector for the Indian economy, crop
insurance accounted for 16% of general premium
income. However, there were significant differences in
the composition of premium income across individual
states, largely reflecting their respective economic

structures (see Figure 14).
Figure 13: Gross written premiums by business line (in percent)
Life
74%
Non-life*
(motor)
8%
Non-life*
(non-motor)
8%
Health
10%
*including personal accident and travel insurance premiums
Source: IRDAI, Allianz Research.
20

### Page 21

28 May 2026
Premium income is as unevenly distributed as
economic activity itself, and product design that
ignores this geography will systematically miss the
largest underserved populations. Five states – Gujarat,
Karnataka, Maharashtra, Rajasthan and Uttar Pradesh
– accounted for 48% of general premium income, with
Maharashtra alone accounting for 20% (see Figure
15). In health insurance, Karnataka, Maharashtra and
Tamil Nadu accounted for 49.2% of premium income in

Figure 15: Non-life premium income by state
0
5
10
15
20
25
0
3
6
9
12
15
Maharashtra
Tamil Nadu
Karnataka
Uttar Pradesh
Gujarat
West Bengal
Rajasthan
Telangana
Andhra Pradesh
Madhya Pradesh
Kerala
Delhi
Haryana
Bihar
Odisha
Punjab
Assam
Chhattisgarh
Jharkhand
Uttarakhand
Jammu & Kashmir
Himachal Pradesh
Goa
Tripura
Chandigarh
Meghalaya
Puducherry
Manipur
Sikkim
Nagaland
Arunachal Pradesh
Mizoram
Andaman & Nicobar Is.
share in net GDP 2023-24 (in %)

share in non-life premium 2024-25 (in %, rhs.)
Source: IRDAI, Reserve Bank of India
2023–2024, with 22.5% generated in Maharashtra. Despite
signs of economic convergence, marked regional differences
persist. In 2023–2024, per-capita net state domestic product
ranged between EUR570 in Bihar, representing around a
third of the national average of EUR1,790, to EUR5,568 in
Sikkim. These differences need to be taken into account
when it comes to the design and distribution of insurance

products.
Figure 14: Non-life insurance premium by line of business and state (in percent)
0% 10% 20% 30% 40% 50% 60% 70% 80% 90% 100%
Andhra Pradesh
Arunachal Pradesh
Assam
Bihar
Chattisgarh
Goa
Gujarat
Haryana
Himachal Pradesh
Jharkhand
Karnataka
Kerala
Madhya Pradesh
Maharasthra
Manipur
Meghalaya
Mizoram
Nagaland
Odisha
Punjab
Rajasthan
Sikkim
Tamil Nadu
Telangana
Tripura
Uttar Pradesh
Uttrakhand
West Bengal
Andaman & Nicobar Is.
Chandigarh
Dadra & Nagara Haveli, Daman & Diu

Delhi
Jammu & Kashmir
Ladakh
Lakshadweep
Puducherry
All India
Motor Own Damage Motor Third Party Crop Insurance Fire Personal  Accident
Engineering Liability Insurance Marine Cargo Credit Insurance Marine Hull
Aviation Travel Insurance Miscellaneous
Source: IRDAI
21

### Page 22

Allianz Research
22
The most powerful long-term growth driver for
India’s insurance market, alongside rising household
wealth, is the still incomplete and uneven reach of the
country’s social protection system . Market expansion
is therefore expected to be driven primarily by pent-
up demand and the growing need for supplementary
private risk protection, as public social security remains
at a relatively early stage of development. According
to the latest available ILO data, only 64.3% of India’s

population was covered by at least one branch of the
social security system at all. Effective pension coverage
is even more limited: the ILO estimates that only 45.8% of
the working-age population was covered by the pension
system, compared with close to universal coverage
in most industrialized countries. Without targeted
government initiatives such as Atal Pension Yojana and
the e-Shram portal aimed at informal workers, as well
as the supplementary state-level pension schemes, this

share would be significantly lower. This is particularly
relevant given that only around 12% of India’s workforce
is employed in the formal sector and therefore benefits
from standard pension coverage. Against the backdrop
of rising life expectancy, these structural gaps point to a
growing need for supplementary, capital-funded private
pension solutions to secure retirement income. A similar
dynamic is evident in healthcare. Despite the successful

rollout of Pradhan Mantri Jan Arogya Yojana (PM-JAY),
out-of-pocket spending still accounts for 43.9% of total
health expenditure - high by international standards.
This underscores both the need for further reforms to
broaden public healthcare coverage and the resulting
demand for supplementary private health insurance.
In this context, medical inflation in India, which is
among the highest in Asia, poses a significant financial
challenge for households and health insurance providers

alike.
Regulatory reform and an ambitious universal
coverage target are creating both the policy tailwind
and the competitive catalyst for the next growth phase.
Recent insurance market reforms, notably the opening
up to foreign insurance participation, will increase the
efficiency of the insurance sector and together with the
IRDAI‘s „Insurance for All by 2047“ program are expected
to spur double-digit insurance market growth of an
estimated average 10.5% in life insurance, 10.2% in non-

life and 12.5% in health insurance per annum until 2036.
India‘s insurance sector will expand not just in scale but
in structural sophistication, shifting from a peripheral
to a systemically important pillar of the financial
system. Rising incomes and a growing middle class will
lift demand for protection and savings products, driving
higher penetration and density. Demand is expected
to shift from basic, often mandatory covers such as
motor and simple life towards more complex products

including health, pensions and wealth-linked insurance.
Insurers will increasingly act as institutional investors,
supporting capital market development and long-
term financing, particularly for infrastructure. Higher
incomes and improving financial literacy would also help
reduce underinsurance and encourage more proactive
risk management by households and firms. Together
with demographic trends, notably ageing, this would
further boost demand for private health and retirement

solutions. India‘s still-developing social security system
implies a greater reliance on private provision compared
to other markets such as China. Overall, sustained growth
is likely to transform the sector into a more mature and
systemically important pillar of the financial system.
22

### Page 23

28 May 2026
23
7 Swiss RE (Sigma 1/2025)
⁸ The primary driver to date has been exposure growth (urbanization, asset accumulation and rising construction costs) which accounts for over 80%
of the long-term increase in weather-related insured losses. Climate change effects have so far been a smaller but growing contributor, and Swiss Re
cautions that for certain perils and regions, such as wildfire in North America and severe convective storms in Europe, hazard intensification is alrea -

dy accelerating losses well beyond what exposure alone can explain.
⁹ Feeding a warming world: Securing food and economic stability in a changing climate | Allianz
¹⁰ Climate change through a poverty lens | Nature Climate Change
¹¹  World Bank Document
The next frontier:
Affordability is emerging as a key structural challenge
facing the insurance industry.  In some markets and lines
of business, the cost of adequate coverage is beginning
to outpace households‘ capacity to pay, driven by claims

severity, inflation and broader economic pressures.
Where this gap becomes persistent, it translates into
structural underinsurance, concentrating uninsured
risk where financial resilience is weakest. Climate risk
is where this dynamic is already most visible and most
advanced.
Global insured NatCat losses are rising by 5–7%⁷
annually in real terms, underlining that climate
risk is now a structural underwriting issue rather
than a cyclical volatility event. Climate change is an

undisputed driver, but observed loss trends are also
shaped by socioeconomic factors, including exposure
growth in hazard-prone areas and inflation rather
than by climate effects alone⁸ . Rising premiums are
increasingly colliding with falling household purchasing
power. Climate shocks alongside other socioeconomic
pressures such as demographic change, wars and
geopolitical instability are driving both insurance costs
and greater financial stress. This dynamic is already

visible in household insurance markets: In the US,
homeowners’ insurance premiums rose by +38% between
2019 and 2024, roughly twice the rate of inflation. The
same climate shocks driving up premiums also erode the
capacity to pay: droughts reduce crop yields and push up
food prices, while heat stress lowers labor productivity
and wages. Global food prices could be around 13%
above baseline by 2050 in a +2°C warming scenario, with
Asia-Pacific facing increases of up to 27%, while the most

exposed European economies could see cumulative GDP
losses of 5–7% over five years⁹ . Households are therefore
being squeezed from both directions: rising insurance
costs and weakening income resilience.
Lower-income households face a self-reinforcing
vulnerability trap as higher premiums and weaker
incomes push them out of insurance coverage. The
poorest and most climate-exposed households are hit
hardest, creating a cycle in which rising risks deepen both

poverty and underinsurance. Evidence from developing
countries shows that the poorest 40% experience climate-
driven income losses 70% larger than the average¹⁰, while
a 1°C increase in temperature raises poverty rates by 0.9
to 2.3pps¹¹. Similar patterns are emerging in developed
Climate risk, affordability and
the future of Insurability

### Page 24

Allianz Research
24
economies, where climate change also drives chronic
rather than temporary poverty, making exclusion
from insurance more persistent. As premiums rise,
disaster insurance risks becoming a product accessible
only for wealthier households. Evidence from Florida
shows that without public investment in risk reduction
and affordability mechanisms, both traditional and
parametric insurance products become inaccessible for
low- and middle-income households¹².

As private insurance affordability declines, climate
losses increasingly shift onto public balance sheets
that are themselves being weakened by climate
shocks. In the EU, uninsured direct disaster losses
averaged EUR59bn annually between 2021 and
2023 (Figure 16), highlighting how a large share of
climate losses continues to sit outside formal insurance
coverage and is ultimately absorbed by households,
firms and governments¹³. This gap is significantly

demand-driven: EIOPA research highlights¹⁴ that
low risk awareness, expectations of government
compensation and lack of product clarity mean many
households and businesses simply do not purchase
available NatCat coverage, a challenge distinct from
the supply-side retreat seen in parts of the US market.
This is also visible in the rapid expansion of state-backed
insurance schemes. Heat stress alone could worsen
European fiscal balances by around 0.5% of GDP annually.

France faces additional fiscal pressure of 2.2% of GDP ,
while Italy and Spain face 1.9% and 1.7% respectively.
The governments most exposed to climate risk are often
those with the least fiscal space to subsidize insurance
or invest in adaptation, creating a dangerous feedback
loop of rising losses, weaker coverage and declining fiscal
resilience. In the US, California’s FAIR Plan increased
insured exposure from USD220bn in September 2022 to
USD750bn by early 2026¹⁵ , and following the Los Angeles

wildfires required a USD1bn emergency levy on insurers
to maintain solvency. Florida’s Citizens scheme peaked
at USD618bn of insured exposure in 2023, showing how
quickly public contingent liabilities can grow when private
insurers retreat¹⁶.
12 Insurance and climate risks: Policy lessons from three bounding scenarios | PNAS
13  Climate and nature risks fuel multi-billion insurance protection gaps | WWF
14 Climate insurance protection gaps: a demand-side challenge - European Insurance and Occupational Pensions Authority

15 California FAIR Plan Association (March 2026)
16 Citizens Property Insurance Corporation (Policies in Force)
Figure 16: Development of NatCat losses in Europe and share of uninsured losses
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
1980
1981
1982
1983
1984
1985
1986
1987
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018

2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
Share uninsured losses (% )
Nat ural disast er losses (euro billion)
Total insured Total uninsured Share uninsured losses
Source: CATDAT

### Page 25

28 May 2026
25
Europe is increasingly moving toward mandatory
and state-backed NatCat systems, but these
solutions must avoid creating long-term moral
hazard. Public-private NatCat systems are becoming a
structural feature to adapt to extreme weather events.
France already operates a mandatory state-backed
NatCat reinsurance scheme funded by a surcharge
on all property insurance policies, and after repeated
climate-related losses that charge was nearly doubled

last year to 20%. Since 2025, all businesses in Italy
have been required to carry NatCat insurance, with
the government covering up to half of the exposure
through its state reinsurer. Germany is about to
introduce a mandatory scheme, and the German
Insurance Association has proposed a new private-
sector pool for high-risk residential properties backed
by a government stop-loss mechanism for catastrophe
losses above EUR30bn. At the EU level, supervisors are

exploring a Europe-wide risk-sharing system combining
a premium-financed pool with a public loan-funded
mechanism. These schemes can preserve insurability,
but if public support becomes too strong, pricing
signals could weaken and incentives for resilience
investment, relocation and land-use discipline could
be reduced. Equally, even well-designed public-private
schemes face structural limits if investment in climate-
change adaptation, from enforced flood defenses and

resilient infrastructure to smart agriculture and water
management systems, does not scale fast enough
to reduce costs of the rising loss trends. Without
combined strategies, the fiscal and insurance capacity
underpinning the public-private NatCat schemes will
be progressively eroded.
The deeper issue is that climate risk is exposing the
limits of pricing alone as a long-term solution to
maintaining insurability. Insurance pricing continues
to rely primarily on claims experience, probabilistic

NatCat models and increasingly granular hazard maps
that capture location-specific risk differentials. These
tools remain broadly effective for pricing incremental
climate risks and preserving underwriting discipline.
However, annual repricing becomes increasingly
difficult when physical risks and claims severity rise
faster than households’ ability to absorb higher
premiums. For insurers, the challenge is no longer simply
to reprice risk, but to preserve insurability in economies

where affordability is structurally weakening.
Preserving long-term insurability requires stronger
adaptation incentives, efficiency gains, targeted
affordability measures and public-private solutions.
This requires moving beyond pure risk transfer toward
stronger risk reduction and resilience incentives. Insurance
will increasingly need to incentivize adaptation through
pricing, deductibles and prevention management,
while efficiency gains become essential to offset

structurally rising claims severity driven by technological
complexity, specialized repair services and legal costs.
Automation, AI and digital claims management already
show significant potential to reduce operational costs
without compromising coverage quality.  Critically,
however, affordability cannot be preserved through
artificially suppressed premiums. Underpricing weakens
incentives for risk reduction and ultimately accelerates
rather than closes protection gaps. Where lower-income

households are being priced out of coverage, targeted
support mechanisms such as means-tested vouchers
or public reinsurance are likely to prove more effective
and transparent than below-risk pricing. In areas where
physical risks have shifted permanently, managed
relocation may ultimately be more sustainable than
maintaining coverage at unsustainably low prices. More
broadly, protection gaps cannot be solved by private
insurance alone. Public-private partnerships, sovereign

backstops and targeted affordability mechanisms will
become increasingly necessary where risks become
privately uninsurable, but must always be combined with
credible adaptation investment at scale. Without enforced
building codes, flood defenses and resilient infrastructure,
public-private schemes absorb rising losses without
addressing their source, progressively eroding the fiscal
and insurance capacity that underpins them.

### Page 26

Allianz Research
26
Appendix
Appendix A
Insurance markets p&c life health p&c life health p&c life health
20252) KPIs
Argentina 11,8 1,5 0,03 2,4 0,3 0,01 258 33 0,6
Australia 40,5 14,0 18,1 2,5 0,9 1,1 1 500 517 670,6
Austria 15,6 5,2 3,4 3,0 1,0 0,7 1 710 568 376,8
Bahrain 0,4 0,1 0,2 1,1 0,2 0,5 260 41 134,6
Belgium 13,3 17,8 2,5 2,1 2,8 0,4 1 127 1 516 214,7
Brazil 24,0 10,5 53,6 1,2 0,5 2,7 113 49 251,6
Bulgaria 2,2 0,3 0,2 3,7 0,5 0,3 326 48 28,6

Canada 49,9 66,6 25,4 2,5 3,3 1,3 1 244 1 659 633,0
Chile 4,9 9,1 1,1 1,5 2,9 0,4 247 460 57,6
China 190,9 433,2 121,5 1,1 2,5 0,7 135 306 85,8
Colombia 5,8 6,8 1,1 1,4 1,6 0,3 109 127 21,0
Croatia 1,6 0,3 0,2 1,7 0,4 0,2 411 87 39,4
Czech Republic 7,3 2,1 0,6 2,1 0,6 0,2 684 196 60,2
Denmark 12,8 36,2 0,5 3,1 8,8 0,1 2 134 6 034 88,7
Egypt 0,9 1,1 0,3 0,3 0,3 0,1 8 9 2,6
Finland 4,8 6,0 0,8 1,7 2,2 0,3 850 1 075 141,3
France 98,2 192,1 48,4 3,3 6,4 1,6 1 474 2 882 726,7

Germany 103,6 95,0 54,1 2,3 2,1 1,2 1 232 1 130 643,9
Greece 2,7 2,8 0,6 1,1 1,1 0,2 267 283 55,6
Hong Kong 3,3 77,0 2,3 0,9 21,1 0,6 441 10 411 305,0
Hungary 3,0 2,1 0,1 1,3 0,9 0,1 312 214 13,4
India 19,7 92,1 12,4 0,6 2,8 0,4 13 63 8,5
Indonesia 6,2 8,2 1,4 0,5 0,7 0,1 22 29 5,0
Ireland 4,6 24,1 3,9 0,7 3,8 0,6 874 4 539 741,0
Italy 48,0 122,6 5,0 2,1 5,4 0,2 812 2 073 84,0
Japan 58,5 206,7 n/a 1,6 5,7 n/a 475 1 679 n/a
Kazakhstan 1,2 1,8 0,1 0,4 0,7 0,1 55 86 6,6

Kenya 0,9 1,4 0,6 0,8 1,2 0,5 16 25 10,9
Laos 0,1 0,01 n/a 0,3 0,1 n/a 6 1 n/a
Malaysia 4,7 10,6 0,3 1,1 2,5 0,1 130 296 7,4
Mexico 18,1 22,0 8,7 1,1 1,3 0,5 137 167 65,6
Morocco 2,8 2,7 0,5 1,7 1,7 0,3 72 72 12,6
Netherlands 16,7 15,7 66,5 1,4 1,3 5,6 912 855 3 624,3
Nigeria 0,9 0,4 n/a 0,4 0,2 n/a 4 2 n/a
New Zealand 5,5 1,6 n/a 2,5 0,7 n/a 1 039 303 n/a
Norway 10,7 15,2 0,5 2,3 3,3 0,1 1 910 2 708 87,5
Pakistan 1,5 1,2 n/a 0,4 0,4 n/a 6 5 n/a
Peru 2,1 3,5 0,4 0,7 1,2 0,1 61 103 12,5

Philippines 2,1 5,6 0,2 0,5 1,4 0,1 18 48 1,8
Poland 14,5 3,6 1,7 1,6 0,4 0,2 381 95 43,8
Portugal 6,2 8,1 1,8 2,0 2,7 0,6 600 783 171,1
Romania 3,5 0,8 0,2 0,9 0,2 0,1 183 44 11,7
Saudi Arabia 5,8 2,8 10,7 0,5 0,3 1,0 169 81 308,4
Singapore 3,7 33,5 2,5 0,7 6,4 0,5 625 5 705 428,3
Slovakia 1,4 0,6 0,2 1,0 0,5 0,1 253 115 36,1
South Africa 11,8 40,2 n/a 3,0 10,2 n/a 183 622 n/a
South Korea 79,8 74,2 n/a 5,1 4,7 n/a 1 545 1 437 n/a
Spain 36,5 35,9 13,5 2,2 2,1 0,8 763 750 280,9

Sri Lanka 0,4 0,6 0,1 0,4 0,7 0,1 16 27 2,7
Sweden 10,8 39,4 n/a 1,8 6,5 n/a 1 017 3 697 n/a
Switzerland 22,1 24,3 14,4 2,4 2,6 1,5 2 462 2 710 1 609,0
Taiwan 9,8 56,1 13,0 1,3 7,2 1,7 424 2 428 560,3
Thailand 8,0 14,0 4,2 1,6 2,7 0,8 112 196 58,2
Türkiye 16,5 3,5 4,2 1,3 0,3 0,3 188 40 47,9
United Arab Emirates 7,3 1,9 8,2 1,5 0,4 1,7 642 170 726,3
United Kingdom 122,0 275,3 10,4 3,5 7,9 0,3 1 754 3 958 150,1
United States 1155,5 725,6 1167,6 4,4 2,8 4,5 3 327 2 089 3 362,1

Vietnam 2,7 4,9 n/a 0,6 1,2 n/a 26 48 n/a
1) 2025 exchange rates.
2) Estimates are shown in italics.
Total premium income (in EUR bn)1) Penetration (as % of GDP) Density (per capita, in EUR)1)

### Page 27

28 May 2026
27
Appendix B
Insurance markets p&c life health p&c life health p&c life health
Long-term development
Argentina 61,0 54,4 61,0 17,5 18,8 22,8 69,8 10,1 0,3
Australia 6,5 -8,1 4,3 4,7 3,1 4,2 67,1 19,5 28,5
Austria 3,8 -2,3 5,6 3,1 1,2 5,0 21,8 5,9 5,9
Bahrain 1,2 -6,3 6,7 3,4 3,7 5,6 0,6 0,1 0,4
Belgium 3,2 0,9 5,2 3,0 4,0 6,1 18,4 27,4 4,8
Brazil 7,1 11,6 9,2 5,5 11,4 5,8 43,0 34,5 99,9
Bulgaria 10,5 7,2 16,9 7,2 7,4 15,4 4,7 0,7 0,9

Canada 4,1 5,3 4,8 3,7 4,1 4,7 74,8 104,0 42,1
Chile 8,2 9,3 11,1 6,4 7,3 6,3 9,7 19,9 2,2
China 6,6 11,3 18,2 6,3 7,6 8,1 374,3 966,7 285,6
Colombia 9,1 12,4 14,6 6,7 8,0 11,5 11,9 15,8 3,7
Croatia 7,0 -0,4 13,7 4,4 2,6 12,2 2,5 0,4 0,5
Czech Republic 6,6 -2,7 8,9 4,7 2,4 8,6 12,0 2,7 1,6
Denmark 2,8 6,2 7,2 3,0 5,6 8,1 17,8 66,0 1,3
Egypt 20,4 20,2 30,5 11,4 9,8 20,9 3,0 3,0 2,5
Finland 1,8 0,2 9,0 3,3 4,5 9,8 6,8 9,8 2,2
France 4,5 3,7 2,8 4,1 3,5 3,2 153,5 280,8 68,7

Germany 4,6 0,5 3,7 4,3 2,5 3,9 165,3 124,3 82,7
Greece 2,3 4,5 14,4 5,4 3,6 6,8 4,7 4,2 1,1
Hong Kong 2,3 8,2 6,8 4,1 5,2 5,9 5,1 135,1 4,2
Hungary 10,7 5,1 16,1 6,8 4,5 12,6 6,2 3,3 0,5
India 10,9 10,4 18,3 10,2 10,5 12,5 57,3 277,0 45,2
Indonesia 8,0 3,7 13,1 7,3 7,9 12,9 13,3 18,8 5,4
Ireland 5,1 8,0 4,9 3,5 3,4 4,9 6,8 34,8 6,7
Italy 2,9 0,5 8,3 3,6 2,8 7,6 70,6 167,0 11,1
Japan 1,9 0,5 n/a 2,5 2,9 n/a 77,2 282,9 n/a
Kazakhstan 12,0 32,8 12,7 7,1 11,8 12,1 2,4 6,1 0,5

Kenya 5,5 12,9 12,7 7,8 12,1 12,5 2,1 5,0 2,3
Laos 11,3 35,0 n/a 10,4 15,0 n/a 0,2 0,0 n/a
Malaysia 3,3 6,1 2,1 5,6 5,2 6,7 8,5 18,6 0,5
Mexico 9,2 9,8 12,2 8,2 8,5 9,7 43,0 53,8 24,0
Morocco 5,8 10,8 5,2 5,9 7,1 6,8 5,2 5,8 1,0
Netherlands 2,5 0,0 4,4 3,2 2,7 4,3 23,8 21,1 105,7
Nigeria 21,6 21,7 n/a 15,7 20,0 n/a 4,7 3,3 n/a
New Zealand 7,1 3,9 n/a 3,6 3,6 n/a 8,0 2,3 n/a
Norway 7,1 6,2 12,8 5,0 4,4 8,7 18,3 24,4 1,2
Pakistan 27,7 11,5 n/a 13,8 13,8 n/a 6,4 5,2 n/a

Peru 5,0 10,7 8,3 5,2 8,0 5,2 3,7 8,3 0,8
Philippines 7,6 8,7 n/a 8,5 10,0 n/a 5,1 16,0 n/a
Poland 6,9 -3,8 24,1 4,2 3,6 8,7 22,9 5,3 4,2
Portugal 6,1 -2,2 11,2 4,0 3,9 8,1 9,7 12,5 4,2
Romania 9,6 11,1 27,8 3,2 3,3 21,6 4,9 1,2 1,9
Saudi Arabia 5,8 26,8 10,5 6,2 11,7 8,2 11,3 9,4 25,3
Singapore 4,2 7,5 23,9 5,6 5,5 8,4 6,7 60,2 6,1
Slovakia 3,6 -5,4 n/a 4,0 3,5 10,5 2,1 0,9 0,6
South Africa 7,0 5,0 n/a 5,6 5,6 n/a 21,6 73,0 n/a
South Korea 5,4 0,8 n/a 4,9 4,4 n/a 135,6 119,0 n/a

Spain 4,1 3,4 5,8 3,4 3,6 6,0 52,9 52,8 25,6
Sri Lanka 8,8 15,9 10,6 10,6 12,8 8,3 1,1 2,4 0,2
Sweden 4,8 5,4 n/a 3,6 4,1 n/a 16,1 61,2 n/a
Switzerland 2,0 -3,3 3,1 2,9 1,6 2,4 30,4 28,9 18,8
Taiwan 5,9 -1,3 4,1 4,8 4,3 4,8 16,4 89,2 21,6
Thailand 2,5 0,5 9,7 4,5 3,6 8,6 12,9 20,8 10,4
Türkiye 40,5 43,8 48,1 11,8 14,4 15,3 56,3 15,6 20,0
United Arab Emirates 7,7 -0,4 11,2 4,7 5,3 6,3 12,0 3,4 16,1
United Kingdom 7,8 4,5 4,8 3,4 3,4 3,3 176,1 397,2 14,9

United States 5,7 4,9 9,0 4,1 3,9 6,9 1 799,6 1 103,9 2 437,4
Vietnam 10,6 16,4 n/a 9,5 7,0 n/a 7,3 10,2 n/a
1) 2025 exchange rates.
Total premium income 2036 (in EUR bn)1)CAGR 2026-2036 (in %)CAGR 2015-2025 (in %)

### Page 28

Allianz Research
28
ALLIANZ RESEARCH
teamOur

### Page 29

Head of Corporate Research
Allianz Trade
Simon Krause
Economist, ESG & Insurance
simon.krause@allianz.com
Chief Investment Officer
& Chief Economist
Allianz Investment Management SE
Ludovic Subran
ludovic.subran@ allianz.c om
Lluis Dalmau Taules
Economist for Africa & Middle Eas t
lluis.dalmau@allianz-trade.com

### Page 30

Allianz Research
30
Recent Publications
Discover all our publications on our websites: Allianz Research and Allianz Trade Economic Research
21/05/2026 | How AI is rewiring global trade: Concentrating Power, Dependencies, and Supply Chains
19/05/2026 | Transatlantic spread – from monetary signal to fiscal mirror
12/05/2026 | Thinking fast, building slow: The energy cost of the US AI boom
12/05/2026 | Behind the gate: The promises and perils of private markets democratization

06/05/2026 | US large banks: The peak of the cycle is not the time to be complacent
05/05/2026 | Automotive: Will the Middle East crisis supercharge EV momentum?
30/04/2026 | Happy Labor Day? How geopolitics, immigration and AI will reshape work
29/04/2026 | Staycation summer? Jet-fuel crunch reshapes the peak holiday season
23/04/2026 | Energy shock and policy response: Once bitten, twice shy?
22/04/2026 | Global Insolvency Outlook: Brace for Middle East spillovers

16/04/2026 | Nowhere to hide? Rethinking safe havens and safe assets in a fragmented world
13/04/2026 | A wind of change for Hungary
09/04/2026 | From invisible to investible: An investment taxonomy for climate adaptation
08/04/2026 | Allianz Trade Global Survey 2026: Business as unusual
07/04/2026 | Pixels of crisis: A granular look at the risks of non-payment due to the conflict in the Middle East
31/03/2026 | Economic outlook 2026-27: The Fog of War

25/03/2026 | AI capex cycle: war-proof for now
23/03/2026 | Signal without response: Why the EU ETS needs resolve, not redesign
17/03/2026 | Not all Emerging markets are equal: Hormuz, triple deficits, and the new energy risk premium
16/03/2026 | Warsh's double dilemma: when the Middle East rewrites the Fed's playbook
11/03/2026 | Allianz Social Resilience Index 2025: The Middle-Resilience Trap
10/03/2026 | The second energy shock: Why Europe still isn’t energy secure

05/03/2026 | Closing the gender income gap: from paycheck to pension
03/03/2026 | Conflict in the Middle East: Implications for markets and macro
25/02/2026 | Mining for the future: Addressing liabilities and unlocking sustainable transition opportunities
24/02/2026 | Variable geometry for European trade: Building resilience and diversification
23/02/2026 | Schroedinger’s tariffs
20/02/2026 | Private equity in transition: from distribution drought to selective recovery

19/02/2026 | Eurobonds – A window of opportunity for a strategic necessity
16/02/2026 | Country Atlas 2026 : Under the surface
13/02/2026 | From unipolar to uneven: Fragmentation tests US market primacy and reshapes the global investment
landscape
11/02/2026 | High prices, thin buffers: America’s affordability crisis persists
10/02/2026 | Europe’s households after the rate shock: A windfall for some, a squeeze for others

### Page 31

28 May 2026
3131
Director of Publications
Ludovic Subran, Chief Investment Officer & Chief Economist
Allianz Research
Phone +49 89 3800 7859
Allianz Group Economic Research
https://www.allianz.com/en/economic_research
http://www.allianz-trade.com/economic-research
Königinstraße 28 | 80802 Munich | Germany
allianz.research@allianz.com
@allianz
allianz
Allianz Trade Economic Research
http://www.allianz-trade.com/economic-research
1 Place des Saisons | 92048 Paris-La-Défense Cedex | France

@allianz-trade
allianz-trade
About Allianz Research
Allianz Research encompasses Allianz Group Economic Research
and the Economic Research department of Allianz Trade.
Forward looking statements
The statements contained herein may include prospects, statements of future expectations and
other forward-looking statements that are based on management’s current views and assumptions
and involve known and unknown risks and uncertainties. Actual results, performance or events may

differ materially from those expressed or implied in such forward-looking statements.
Such deviations may arise due to, without limitation, (i) changes of the general economic conditions
and competitive situation, particularly in the Allianz Group’s core business and core markets,
(ii) performance of financial markets (particularly market volatility, liquidity and credit events),
(iii) frequency and severity of insured loss events, including from natural catastrophes, and the

development of loss expenses, (iv) mortality and morbidity levels and trends,
(v) persistency levels, (vi) particularly in the banking business, the extent of credit defaults, (vii)
interest rate levels, (viii) currency exchange rates including the EUR/USD exchange rate, (ix) changes
in laws and regulations, including tax regulations, (x) the impact of acquisitions, including related
integration issues, and reorganization measures,
and (xi) general competitive factors, in each case on a local, regional, national and/or global basis.

Many of these factors may be more likely to occur, or more pronounced, as a result of terrorist
activities and their consequences.
No duty to update
The company assumes no obligation to update any information or forward-looking statement
contained herein, save for any information required to be disclosed by law.

---
## Document 239: Blockade of the Strait of Hormuz_ the oil market soon to run out of options (2026-05-20)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Blockade of the Strait of Hormuz_ the oil market soon to run out of options (2026-05-20).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-05-20
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

20 May 2026
The bank
for a changing
world
The blockade of the Strait of Hormuz over the past two and a half months has significantly reduced the amount of oil available globally. The
use of regional bypass, and the release of commercial stocks and strategic reserves are only partial and temporary solutions. Without the
restoration of oil flows through the strait, the growing shortfall in petroleum products will accelerate the rise in oil prices and destruction

in global oil demand.
A considerable volume of oil is out of the market despite the use of alternative routes
Under normal circumstances, nearly 19.8 million barrels per day (mb/d) of crude oil and refined products pass through the Strait of Hormuz. Due to the
blockade, part of this flow is being diverted through existing alternative transit infrastructures. Around 7 mb/d are thus being diverted through various
bypass pipelines1.
In addition, there were 2 to 3 mb/d of Iranian exports via the Strait until the US blockade was imposed on April 13th. Taking these bypass capacities into ac-

count, the volume of oil production absent from the market is estimated at around 9 mb/d, which remains considerable.
Massive stock drawdowns offer temporary relief
In response to this growing oil supply shortfall, the International Energy Agency (IEA) announced on March 11th the coordinated release of strategic stocks
by member countries. Totaling a record 426 million barrels, these stocks consist of 70% crude oil and 30% refined products. Uncertainties remain regarding

the pace at which these stocks will be released, but our assumption is at a rate of 2.5 million barrels per day. Added to these volumes are a further 100 mil-
lion barrels of oil mobilised by other OECD member countries (Japan and South Korea). At the same time, the United States has temporarily eased certain
sanctions on Russia’s seaborne shipments (which may now be traded until the end of June) and Iranian shipments already in transit (thus allowing access

to floating stocks). Finally, increased production in other oil-producing countries (the United States, Canada, Argentina, etc.) is also helping to ease global
supply pressures.
Thus, the estimate of the net quantity of oil lost to the market takes into account the capacity to bypass the strait as well as the support measures imple-
mented (chart 1).
1 The East-West pipeline from Saudi Arabia to the port of Yanbu on the Red Sea, the Habshan-Fujairah pipeline from the United Arab Emirates to the Gulf of Oman, and the Kirkuk

pipeline used by Iraq to the port of Ceyhan in Türkiye.
BLOCKADE OF THE STRAIT OF HORMUZ: THE OIL MARKET SOON TO RUN OUT OF OPTIONS
Pascal Devaux
Global oil market will soon have lost more than one billion barrels
of crude and petroleum products
-600
-200
200
600
1000
1400 IEA Stocks
Additionnal OECD stocks
Floating stocks Iran
Floating stocks Russia
Net increase in crude oil production (excluding Gulf)
Cumulative loss of supply (including by-pass and Iran oil exports)

Net loss of supply
million barrels
SOURCE: INTERNATIONAL ENERGY AGENCY (IEA), BNP PARIBASCHART 1

### Page 2

2
Chart of the Week / 20 May 2026 economic-research.bnpparibas.com
The bank
for a changing
world
Is the surge in US exports sustainable?
Other external factors are helping to limit, at least temporarily, the effects
of the current market disruptions and to contain price rises to a certain
extent.
i/ Firstly, market disruptions and rising prices are reducing global oil de -
mand. According to the latest IEA report, it could contract by 2.4 mb/d du -

ring Q2 2026 and decrease by a total of 0.42 mb/d over the year 2026 com-
pared to 2025, reaching 104 mb/d.
ii/ Secondly, the United States has significantly increased its exports of
crude oil and refined products. These exports reached an all-time high
of 14.2 mb/d during the week of April 24 th, compared with an average of
10.7 mb/d in 2025, according to the US Energy Information Administration
(EIA). However, the sustainability of this US effort is raising questions. Main-

taining a high level of exports implies increased drawdowns on domestic
stocks (chart 2), which are falling at a very high rate (an all-time high du-
ring the week of May 8th). This is unsustainable in the short term, and could
fuel market concern.
Furthermore, according to the US EIA, the retail price of gasoline in the
United States now exceeds USD 4.50 per gallon. However, this trend is
economically costly, particularly as a seasonal rise in fuel consumption

begins. Furthermore, it could also be costly from a political perspective as
November mid-term elections approach, at a time when US households’
purchasing power is already weakened by persistently high inflation. It is
therefore uncertain whether the US will continue this policy of sharply in -
creasing exports for more than a few weeks, particularly for refined pro -
ducts.
iii/ Finally, the decline in Chinese imports of oil is limiting upward pressure

on global prices, without, however, drastically reducing China’s commercial
stocks and strategic reserves (estimated at 1.4 billion barrels). According
to some estimates, China has reduced its crude oil imports by an average of
3.6 million barrels per day (they are now reportedly at 8.1 mb/d compared
with 11.7 mb/d before the war). This is notably the result of a decline in ac-
tivity in the petrochemical and refining sectors in April (year-on-year). This

contraction is likely to be temporary.
Markets are taking stock of the shock
Markets now seem to be taking the full extent of the current supply short-
fall more clearly: nearly a billion barrels are estimated to be missing since
the closure of the strait. This is particularly reflected in the narrowing of
the spread between the price of a barrel of ‘physical’ oil (dated Brent, the
nearest physical delivery) and the Brent futures price on international mar-

kets (now less than USD5 per barrel). Furthermore, Brent futures prices
(maturing in December 2026) are trending upwards and remain close to
USD92 per barrel, having reached their highest level on 4 May (chart 3).
Temporary solutions are running out of steam, raising market concerns
Tensions in the global oil market will continue to rise to the point that the
gap between supply and demand becomes too wide for temporary solutions
to be sufficient to mitigate it. For the United States, the drawdown of strate-

gic reserves (Strategic Petroleum Reserve) and commercial reserves held
by private companies could heighten concerns from the end of Q2 onwards.
The European Union, for its part, could face an abrupt market adjustment
for refined products in June (through supply disruptions). Around half of the
barrels to be delivered via the oil stocks released by the IEA to supply the
market remain available. Yet the seasonal rise in consumption of petroleum
products during the summer in the northern hemisphere risks rapidly de -

pleting them. Therefore, the possibility of bringing an additional volume of
oil to the market could be evoked, but it would be at the risk of reducing
stocks to an alarming low level (which is difficult to estimate at this stage)
and could push the market even further towards extreme pricing.
Pascal Devaux, with the help of Clara Ngo Ba Do (intern)
pascal.devaux@bnpparibas.com
The massive US stock release will be difficult
to maintain in the short run

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
1560
1580
1600
1620
1640
1660
1680
1700
1720
1740
Milliers
Milliers
Stocks of crude oil and petroleum
products
Exports of crude oil and petroleum
products (rhs)
million barrels million barrels per day
SOURCE: EIA, BNP PARIBASCHART 2
SOURCE: BLOOMBERG, BNP PARIBAS
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Apr-26 Jun-26 Aug-26 Oct-26 Dec-26 Feb-27 Apr-27 Jun-27 Aug-27 Oct-27 Dec-27
May 19
Apr. 6
Mar. 18
Feb. 27
Brent crude oil futures (USD/barrel), by date

CHART 3
The energy shock is better priced by the market

### Page 3

GROUP ECONOMIC RESEARCH
The bank
for a changing
world
The information and opinions contained in this document have been obtained from, or are based
on, public sources believed to be reliable, but there is no guarantee of the accuracy, comple-
teness or fitness for any particular purpose of such information and such information may not
have been independently verified by BNPP or by any person. None of BNPP , any of its subsidiary
undertakings or affiliates or its members, directors, officers, agents or employees accepts any

part of it nor the fact of its distribution form the basis of, or be relied on, in connection with
any contract or investment decision. Information and opinions contained in this document are
published for the information of recipients, but are not to be relied upon as authoritative or
taken in substitution for the exercise of judgment by any recipient, are subject to change without
notice. In providing this document, BNPP does not offer investment, financial, legal, tax or any

other type of advice to, nor has any fiduciary duties towards, recipients. Any reference to past
performance is not indicative of future performance, which may be better or worse than prior

results. Any hypothetical, past performance simulations are the result of estimates made by
BNPP , as of a given moment, on the basis of parameters, market conditions, and historical data
selected by BNPP , and should not be used as guidance, in any way, of future performance. To
the fullest extent permitted by law, no BNPP group company accepts any liability whatsoever
(including in negligence) for any direct or consequential loss arising from any use of or reliance

on material contained in this document even when advised of the possibility of such losses. All
estimates and opinions included in this document are made as of the date of this document. Un-
less otherwise indicated in this document there is no intention to update this document. BNPP
may make a market in, or may, as principal or agent, buy or sell securities of any issuer or person
mentioned in this document or derivatives thereon. Prices, yields and other similar information

included in this document are included for information purposes however numerous factors will
affect market pricing at any particular time, such information may be subject to rapid change
and there is no certainty that transactions could be executed at any specified price. BNPP may
have a financial interest in any issuer or person mentioned in this document, including a long
or short position in their securities and/or options, futures or other derivative instruments based

thereon, or vice versa. BNPP , including its officers and employees may serve or have served as
an officer, director or in an advisory capacity for any person mentioned in this document. BNPP
may, from time to time, solicit, perform or have performed investment banking, underwriting
or other services (including acting as adviser, manager, underwriter or lender) within the last
12 months for any person referred to in this document. BNPP may be a party to an agreement

with any person relating to the production of this document. BNPP may to the extent permitted
by law, have acted upon or used the information contained herein or in the document, or the
analysis on which it was based, before the document was published. BNPP may receive or
intend to seek compensation for investment banking services in the next three months from or
in relation to any person mentioned in this document. Any person mentioned in this document

to any other person without the prior written consent of BNPP . By accepting or accessing this
document you agree to this.
BNP Paribas is a société anonyme incorporated in France, licensed and supervised as a credit
institution by the European Central Bank (ECB) and as an investment services provider by the
Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution (ACPR) and Autorité des marches financiers
(AMF), and having its registered office at 16, boulevard des Italiens, 75009 Paris, France.

Published by BNP PARIBAS Economic Research
Head office: 16 boulevard des Italiens – 75009 Paris France / Phone : +33 (0) 1.42.98.12.34
Internet: www.group.bnpparibas -  www.economic-research.bnpparibas.com
Head of publication : Jean Lemierre
Chief editor: Isabelle Mateos y Lago
HOW TO RECEIVE OUR PUBLICATIONS
SUBSCRIBE ON OUR WEBSITE
see the Economic Research website
FOLLOW US ON LINKEDIN
see the Economic Research linkedin page
OR TWITTER
see the Economic Research Twitter page

&
Subscribe to our publications:
Structural or thematic topics
Recent economic and policy developments, data comments, economic
calendar, forecasts
Data releases, major economic events
Analyses and forecasts with a focus on developed and emerging
economies.
MACROWAVES
Our economic podcast
Easy-to-read monthly overview of inflation dynamics
What is the key event of the month?
You will find the answer in our economy broadcast.
The key economic figures for France and major European economies

A weekly chart highlighting points of interest in the world economy

---
## Document 277: EUに接近する英国

Source PDF: all report pdf/EUに接近する英国.pdf
Report source: MURC
Date: 2026-05-27
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 5 月 27 日

MURC Focus

EU に接近する英国

～改革党の人気を刺激する可能性～

調査部 主任研究員 土田 陽介

1. EU に接近するスターマー政権 
英国のキア・スターマー首相が率いる労働党政権は、欧州連合（EU ）との通商関係の改善を重視している。
2025 年 6 月には英国の EU 離脱後で初めてとなる英欧首脳会議を行い、関係の改善を進める方針で双方が一
致した。今年 7 月にも再び首脳会議が開催される予定であるが、それに先立ち英国がEU に対して、双方のモノ
の貿易に関して単一市場を復活させる提案を行ったと報じられた。

対する EU は、英国が提案するモノの貿易のみならず、サービス貿易やヒトの移動に関しても、再び自由化す
る必要があるとの見解を示したもようである。EU 未加盟国が EU の単一市場にアクセスするためには、EU が重
視する 4 つの自由化の原則（モノ、サービス、ヒト、カネ）を満たす必要があるという立場を、EU は堅持している。
この点に関して、EU が譲ることはないと考えられる。 
図表1. EU 離脱の成否に関する英国民の意識調査 図表2. EU との今後の関係に関する世論調査（25/6/17）

（出所）YouGov

（注）EU との協力深化は EU、関税同盟、単一市場のいずれにも再加盟し
ないかたちでの協力を模索するもの。 
（出所）YouGov 
〇EU との通商関係の改善を重視する英国の労働党政権は、今年7月の首脳会議に先立ち、双方のモノの貿
易に関して単一市場を復活させる提案を EU に対して行ったと報じられた。 
〇スターマー政権が EU との関係の改善を図る背景には、国民の間で広がる EU 離脱への後悔（Bregret）が
ある。とはいえ、英国の EU 再加盟のハードルは極めて高い。 
〇英国と EU との間で関係改善に向けた交渉が進展しても、次期の総選挙で改革党を中心とする政権が成立
した場合、反故にされる可能性がある。こうした英国の政治環境が、EU との関係改善を難しくするだろう。 
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
20 21 22 23 24 25
（%）
（年、月）
誤っていた
正しかった
36
26
27
22
20
22
22
43
0% 50% 100%
EU再加盟
単一市場再
加盟
関税同盟再
加盟
EUとの協力
深化
強く賛成 賛成 不明

### Page 2

スターマー政権が EU との関係の改善を図る背景には、国民の間で広がる EU 離脱への後悔（Bregret）があ
ると考えられる。世論調査会社 YouGov が英国の EU 離脱の成否について国民に尋ねたところ、最新 2025 年
6 月 17 日時点では、誤っていたとした回答者の割合は 56%と、正しかったとした回答者の割合である 31%を大
きく上回った（図表 1）。

また同調査では、国民のうちの過半の 56%が EU 再加盟を望んでいる（うち強く賛成が 36%、賛成が 20%）ほ
か、EU や関税同盟、単一市場のいずれにも再加盟しないかたちでも、EU との協力を深化すべきであるとする
声が 65%（うち強く賛成 22%、賛成が 43%）に達した。こうした国民の声を背景に、スターマー首相が率いる労働
党政権は、EU との関係改善を重視し、EU に接近している。

2. EU 再加盟のハードルは高い 
とはいえ、英国の EU 再加盟のハードルは極めて高い。なにより、かつて英国が享受していたオプトアウト条項
（共通通貨ユーロの不導入、シェンゲン協定＜欧州各国の国境での出入国審査を廃止し、ヒトの自由な移動を認
めた取り決め＞への不参加など）を、EU が再び容認する公算が小さいことがある。特に、ユーロ不導入の特権が
容認されない限り、英国はマクロ経済政策運営の自由を失うことになるため、親EU の英国民もこれを受け入れる
ことはできないと考えられる。

そもそも EU 再加盟に関する英国の民意が確立されていないという問題が大きい。EU 離脱が失敗だったとす
る国民の多くが、保守党ならびに改革党（Reform UK ）を率いるナイジェル・ファラージ党首の責任が大きいと評
価している（図表 3）。一方、EU 離脱の失敗はその方法やその後の展開にあり、EU 離脱そのものは正しいという
有権者も少なくなく、そうした人々の多くが改革党を支持しているもようである（図表 4）。 
図表3. 離脱失敗に責任を持つべき政治家（25/6/17） 図表4. 主要政党の支持率調査

（出所）YouGov

（出所）YouGov

0 20 40 60 80 100
保守党
ボリス・ジョンソン
ナイジェル・ファラージ
テレーザ・メイ
リシ・スナク
労働党
EU
公務員
キア・スターマー
（%）
5
10
15
20
25
30
25 26
保守党 労働党 自民党
改革党 緑の党
（%）
（年、月）

### Page 3

現状の支持率の低さに鑑みると、2029 年 8 月までに実施される総選挙で、労働党は敗北を免れない情勢で
ある。仮に労働党政権と EU との間で関係の改善に向けた交渉が進展しても、次期の総選挙で改革党を中心と
する政権が成立した場合、労働党政権と EU との間でまとまった話が反故にされる可能性が意識される。こうした
英国の政治環境が、EU との関係改善を難しくするだろう。

英国の下院選は小選挙区制で行われるため、改革党が次期の総選挙で単独過半数を得ることはまず考えにく
い。ただし、中道右派でかつてファラージ氏が所属していた保守党との連立を組むことで、政権を獲得する可能
性は相応に高いと考えられる。労働党が EU との関係改善を急ぐあまりに、離脱支持者が改革党を支持する流れ
が強まるという逆説的な展開も十分に想定される。

3. 反トランプ感情が EU との関係改善の追い風も最も重要なことは国民生活の安定 
他方で改革党も、反トランプ感情の高まりに対応する必要に迫られている。他の欧州各国と同様に、英国の中
でもまた、支持政党や EU 再加盟の是非といった立場を乗り越えて、米トランプ政権に対する反感が強まってい
る（図表 5）。EU に圧力をかけるドナルド・トランプ大統領と改革党のファラージ党首は近しい関係であることが知
られているが、現状だと、こうした個人的な関係を前面に打ち出すことは、ファラージ人気の冷や水となる。

ゆえに、改革党もかつてのように反 EU の姿勢を全面に出すことはできない。こうした意味で、英国と EU の歩
み寄りの政治的な求心力はかつてよりも高まっていると考えられる。ただし、それが英国の経済政策運営の自主
権を制限するような方向にまで議論が 広がると、かえって遠心力が働くことになるだろう。外交姿勢で歩調を合わ
せつつ、現状の貿易協力協定（TCA）を維持することが英国にとって得策と言えるかもしれない。

図表5. 米トランプ大統領に対する英国民の反応（26/4/8） 図表6. 英国の消費者物価と失業率

（注）調査期間は2026年3月11-25日。 
（出所）YouGov

（出所）英国立統計局（ONS）

大変好ましい, 
4.0%
好ましい, 
9.1%
分からない, 
3.0%
好ましくない, 
13.1%
大変好ましく
ない, 70.7%
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（前年比、%） （季調済、%）
（年、月）
失業率（右目盛）
消費者物価（左目盛）

### Page 4

そもそも労働党政権が現在注力すべきは、苦境が続く英国経済の立て直しである。最新 4 月の消費者物価は
前年比 2.8%上昇と前月（同 3.3%上昇）から伸びが鈍化したものの、中銀であるイングランド銀行（BOE）の物価
目標（2%）を依然として上回り続けている（図表 6）。5 月以降の消費者物価は、イラン発のエネルギーショックに
伴い再加速すると懸念される。一方、失業率は悪化が続いている状況である。

こうした状況を改善するためには、 “大きな政府”路線に歯止めをかけ、物価の安定を図る以外に方法はない。
しかし労働党政権は、価格高騰対策として、小売業者に販売価格の上限を設定しようとするなど、根本的な問題
である大きな政府の修正を進めようとはしない。スターマー降ろしの機運も高まっているとはいえ、後継の労働党
の指導者が大きな政府の修正に踏み込むか、定かではない。

EU との関係改善は中長期的には確かに英国経済の改善に資するだろうが、短期的に優先されるべきはあく
まで大きな政府の修正を通じた英国経済の立て直しである。それをなくして EU との関係改善を図ったところで、
有権者の労働党離れには歯止めがかからず、英国の政治が不安定となるとともに、結局はEU との関係の改善も
中途半端なものとなるだろう。

---
## Document 298: Japan Monthly

Source PDF: all report pdf/Japan Monthly.pdf
Report source: JRI (EN)
Date: 2026-05-18
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

←月更新
↓月更新（前月）
Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy
April 2026
Macro-economics Research Center
Economics Department
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
https://www.jri.co.jp/en/reports/reports/
English translation published in May 2026

### Page 2

of completeness, accuracy, timeliness or of the results obtained from the use of this information, and without warranty of any kind, express or implied, including, but not limited to warranties of
performance, merchantability and fitness for a particular purpose. In no event will JRI, its officers or employees and its interviewee be liable to you or anyone else for any decision made or
action taken in reliance on the information in this report or for any damages, even if we are advised of the possibility of such damages. JRI reserves the right to suspend operation of, or

change the contents of, the report at any time without prior notification. JRI is not obliged to alter or update the information in the report, including without limitation any projection or other
forward looking statement contained therein.

### Page 3

500
600
700
800
900
1,000
1,100
1,200
1,300
1,400
1,500
1,600
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(1,000
houses)
The General Situation – The economy is gradually recovering, though activity has stalled in
some areas
Figure  1-1  Economic Activity Figure  1-2  The Corporate Sector      Figure  1-3  External Demand
Figure  1-4  Employment and Income      Figure  1-5  The Household Sector Figure  1-6  Prices
Consumption is holding firm.

Housing starts are weak.
The unemployment rate is low, hovering around 2.5%.
Nominal wage growth is solid on average.
* The shaded area represents the period during which the Japanese economy was in recession.
Exports, particularly to Europe and Asia, are picking up.
Imports are farely flat overall.
Sources: Cabinet Office; Ministry of Land, Infrastructure,
Transport and Tourism
Sources: Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications;
Ministry of Health, Labor and Welfare

Sources: Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications;
Bank of Japan
Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
Producer price inflation has rebounded as oil prices rise.
Consumer prices are slowing.
The coincident index of business conditions has stopped falling.
The leading index is picking up.
Industrial production is fluctuating.
Economic activity in the service sector is recovering.
85

90
95
100
105
110
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(CY2020＝100) (CY2019-2020 average＝100)
Industrial production index (left scale)
Index of tertiary industry
activity (right scale)
Source: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
(Y/M)
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Real imports
Real exports
(CY2020＝100)
(Y/M)Source: Bank of Japan
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0

2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(%)
(%)
(Y/M)
Unemployment rate (left scale)
Total cash earnings
( y/y % change, right scale)
(CY2020＝100)
(Y/M)
Housing starts
(annualized, right scale)
Real household consumption
expenditure index (left scale)
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(%)
(Y/M)
Producer price index
(y/y % change)
Consumer price index
(excluding fresh food,
y/y % change)
85
90
95
100
105
110
115

120
125
130
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(CY2020＝100)
Index of business conditions
(Composite index, Coincident index)
(Y/M)
Source: Cabinet Office
Index of business conditions
(Composite index, Leading
index)
- 1 -

### Page 4

◆ Business confidence among companies is generally improving
In the March Tankan survey from the Bank of Japan (BOJ), the diffusion index
(DI) for business conditions for large manufacturing enterprises was up one
percentage point from the previous survey. Against a backdrop of solid AI-related
demand, business confidence is improving in the area of non-ferrous metals for data
centers, and also in the production machinery sector, which includes semiconductor

manufacturing equipment.
The DI for large non-manufacturing enterprises was unchanged from the previous
survey. Although the DIs for the transport/postal activities sector and the electric/gas
utilities sector declined on concerns over rising crude oil prices amid heightened
tensions in the Middle East, the DI for the goods rental and leasing sector improved
markedly on the back of robust corporate capital investment appetite, while
consumer-related sectors such as accommodation and eating/drinking services

provided underlying support for the overall index, driven by a recovery in personal
consumption.
◆ Production in the manufacturing sector is fluctuating
In February, the Industrial Production Index dropped by 2.1% month over month
(MoM). While production of steel and non-ferrous metals rose, output of automobiles
and production machinery declined.
According to the Industrial Production Index Forecast (adjusted based on past
forecasting errors), near-future production plans indicate an increase in output of

3.8% MoM in March. One of the main reasons will be a rebound in output of
production machinery.
◆ The service sector is on the recovery track
The recovery in the service sector is being maintained, both for personal and
corporate services. In personal services, finance and insurance provided an overall
lift as more financial transactions were conducted in response to rising stock prices
and higher interest rates. As for corporate services, information and communications

led the way, buoyed by strong digital transformation investment.
Business confidence among companies is favorable overall
Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
Figure 2-1  DI for Business Conditions of Large Companies
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Bank of Japan
Note: The December 2025 survey used a new baseline after the company sample was revised.
(Y/Q)
96

98
100
102
104
106
108
110
2021 22 23 24 25 26
(CY2020=100)
(Y/M)
Figure  2-2  Industrial Production Index
<seasonally adjusted>
Source: Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry
Note: The latest data is based on the adjustment value (Mar) calculated by the
Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry based on past adjustment patterns.
▲5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
2022 23 24 25 26
Others
Motor vehicles
Electrical machinery
General, production and industrial machinery

Machinery
Manufacturing
(Y/Q)
Manufacturing(% points)
▲5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
2022 23 24 25 26
Others
Information and communication-related
Logistics-related
Comsumption-related
Construction-related
Non-manufacturing
(% points) Non-manufacturing
- ２ -

### Page 5

Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
Goods exports are picking up, and capital investment is firm
◆ Goods exports are slowly picking up but there are clouds on the horizon
Goods exports are picking up. By country/territory, exports to the U.S., which had
slumped due to the impact of tariff hikes, appear to have bottomed out, while exports
to Europe and Asia, centered on capital goods, continue to trend upward.

Looking ahead, however, goods exports are projected to weaken. While strong AI
demand will provide underlying support for exports of related goods, the surge in
crude oil prices will sap economic momentum globally, and particularly in Asia. In
addition, exports to the Middle East are expected to decline in the near term amid
disruptions to shipping. Although the Middle East's share of total Japanese exports is
limited, Japan's exports to the region have grown at an annual rate of over 10% in

recent years, centered on transportation machinery. Having contributed to overall
export growth, Middle East-bound exports turning to decline would deal a substantial
blow to Japan's exports overall.
◆ Appetite for investment among companies is strong
Capital investment is firm. Looking at capital investment by type, software
investment remains at a high level, and machinery and construction investment are
also increasing gradually.
Capital investment is also expected to keep rising in the near term. Although

increasing labor shortages in the construction and manufacturing sectors and
soaring construction costs resulting from the turmoil in the Middle East will weigh on
capital investment, companies' enthusiasm for investment to address medium- to
long-term challenges such as labor saving and digital transformation will be
maintained. According to the BOJ Tankan for March, planned capital investments
(including software but excluding land) for FY2026 are up 3% year over year (YoY),

a rate of growth on par with the same period a year ago.
Figure  3-1 Real Exports <by Country/Region> Figure 3-2 Decomposition of Export Growth
<YoY>
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Ministry of Finance
Note: Figures in angle brackets represent the share of exports to the Middle East in
each year.
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Bank of Japan
Note: Backward 3-maonth average. Figures in angle brackets represent the

share of each country and region in customs-cleared export value.
Figure 3-3 Capital Investment Plans
<All Sizes, All Industries>
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Bank of Japan
Note: Including software, excluding land.
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
135
140
2022 23 24 25 26
U.S.<18.5>
EU<9.1>
China<17.0>
NIEs, ASEAN, etc.<37.2>
(CY2000 = 100)
(Y/M)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2023年
（3.5％）
24年
（3.9％）
25年
（4.2％）
Export growth
Contribution of the

Middle East
(%)
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
March
survey
June survey September
survey
December
survey
Estimated
actual
Actual
FY2024
FY2025
FY2026
(YoY, %)
FY2011-2019 average
- ３ -

### Page 6

The household sector will avoid a sharp deterioration despite higher oil prices
◆ High rates of wage increase will be realized in 2026 as well
Rates of wage increase agreed at the 2026 shunto (spring wage negotiations)
averaged at 5.09% (as of the third round of calculations), slightly below the previous
year's figure but still maintaining strong growth. Looking at the figure by company size,
small and medium-sized enterprises (SMEs, fewer than 300 union members) also

awarded high wage increases comparable to those of large corporations. SMEs,
which face particularly serious labor shortages, are maintaining proactive wage-raising
stances to attract/retain workers and boost motivation. In addition, increases in
minimum wages may also have prompted SMEs to raise wages further.
Looking ahead, the wage increases agreed during the shunto are expected to take
effect toward the summer. With wage growth progressing for a wide range of workers,

including those at SMEs, the breadth of those benefiting looks set to widen.
◆ Personal consumption remains firm
Personal consumption is gradually increasing. By type, goods consumption is
stabilizing, thanks in part to easing inflation, while services consumption continues to
hold firm, particularly in amusement-related services.
Looking ahead, personal consumption is expected to remain resilient. Uncertainty
surrounding the situation in the Middle East and concerns over rising prices are

expected to depress consumer confidence, which will likely lead to some moderation
in consumption growth. That said, with the government expected to employ measures
such as subsidies to contain price increases, and with wage growth continuing at a
pace comparable to the previous year, the income environment is likely to provide
underlying support for personal consumption.
Figure  4-2  Consumption Activity Index
<seasonally adjusted>
Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026

The Japan Research Institute, Limited
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Japanese Trade Union
Confideration
Note: The Data for CY2026 are based on the third round of the survey responces.
The Data for CY2025 are based on the final tally.
Figure  4-1 Rate of Wage Increases in
Spring Wage Negotiations
(by Union Size)
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Bank of Japan
Note: Backward 3-month average.

Figure  4-3  Consumer Confidence Index and
Economic Shock
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Cabinet office
Note: Seasonally adjusted data for two-or-more-person households.
The shaded areas indicate recession periods. The survey methodology was
revised in April 2013 and October 2018.
5.09 5.09
5.00
4.68
5.08
4.0
4.2
4.4
4.6
4.8
5.0
5.2
5.4
Total ～99 people 100～299
people
Overall More than 300
people
Fewer than 300 people

CY2026 CY2025
(%)
85
90
95
100
105
110
2017 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
Goods Services
(CY2015 = 100)
(Y/M)
25
30
35
40
45
50
2000 05 10 15 20 25
(Y/Q)
(points)
Great East
Japan
Earthquake
Consumption tax hike
Invantion of
Ukraine
Trump tariff
30% copayment for
medical expenses
Iraq War
- ４ -

### Page 7

-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
2023 24 25 26 27 28
Services
Core goods
Energy
Foodstuffs
0.00
0.50
1.00
1.50
2.00
2.50
3.00
Mar
2025
Jun Sep Dec Mar
26
Jun Sep Dec Mar
27
New 10-year JGB interest rates
Uncollateralized overnight call rate
Forecast
(Y/Month-end)
(%)
The government is moving to curb inflation
◆ Core inflation has fallen below 2% for the first time in about four years
In February, core inflation (all items, less fresh food) was 1.6%, dropping below

2% for the first time in approximately four years. The pace of energy price growth
slowed due to government measures to curb inflation, and the rapid rise of food
prices also moderated.
Inflation of approximately 2% is expected to continue in the near term. WTI
crude oil futures prices should hover around $100 before gradually declining.
While some companies are expected to pass on higher raw material costs
resulting from elevated oil prices to their selling prices, the government is likely to

ease inflationary pressure through measures such as energy subsidies.
That said, if tensions in the Middle East persist for an extended period, there is
a risk that the government may lose its ability to contain price increases, resulting
in a significant rise in the inflation rate.
◆ The BOJ will continue to raise interest rates in phases
At its monetary policy meeting in March, the BOJ decided to keep its policy rate
at 0.75%.
Long-term interest rates have risen. This reflects growing expectations for an

early rate hike by the BOJ, as well as expansion of the view that surging oil prices
could lead to an expansion of government expenditure.
It is highly likely that the BOJ will continue to raise interest rates in stages while
closely monitoring the impact of the Middle East crisis on the real economy and
financial/capital markets. The next rate hike is expected to be in June. Long-term
interest rates look likely to rise gradually, reflecting heightened anticipation of rate

hikes by the BOJ and increased fiscal spending by the government. If jitters about
a deterioration in fiscal discipline resulting from such measures as energy
subsidies or consumption tax cuts take hold, there is also a risk that long-term
interest rates will rise.
Figure  5-3 Outlook for Japan's Main Interest
Rates
Figure  5-1 Consumer Price Index <YoY>
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Ministry
of Internal Affairs and Communications

Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
BOJ Core CPI
Core CPI
(%)
Forecast
(Y/M)
Source: NEEDS-FinancialQUEST
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Ministry
of Internal Affairs and Communications
Figure  5-2 WTI Crude Oil Futures Price
Assumption
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
2025 26 27
(Y/M)
(USD/bbl)
Baseline scenalio as of the
previous month :
Conflict subsiding within March

Baseline scenario
：Confrict subsiding
by around May
Forecast
- ５ -

### Page 8

セン
Topic①:
◆Occupational mismatch is widening
While companies are increasingly feeling labor shortages, the unemployment rate
has stopped declining. Before the COVID pandemic, the unemployment rate and the
BOJ Tankan DI for employment conditions generally moved in the same direction,
but they have since been diverging to an increasing degree.
One factor behind this divergence is the growing number of unemployed
individuals who are unable to find employment. With labor force participation by

women increasing, a certain degree of inflow from the non-labor force population
into the unemployed population has occurred, but the transition of people from
unemployed to employed status has not been sufficient to absorb this. As a result,
the number of people remaining unemployed has been rising, and this trend has
become particularly pronounced in recent years. Compared to the pre-COVID period,
the number of workers switching from unemployment to employment has fallen by

180,000.
The primary driver of this dynamic is employment mismatch, and in particular, a
widening mismatch across occupations. While there is an excess of people seeking
clerical and administrative roles, demand for workers exceeds supply in professional
and technical occupations and in the service sector, and labor shortages are
becoming increasingly severe in these areas. Cases in which job seekers are unable
to find employment despite actively searching for work due to mismatches in skills or

occupations are on the rise.
◆ Facilitating occupational mobility is an urgent priority
To resolve mismatches, mechanisms for facilitating smooth transitions into
different fields are needed, alongside improvements in compensation and working
conditions in labor-scarce occupations. Specific tasks include: 1) providing support
for switching careers, 2) expanding recurrent education, and 3) improving
information infrastructure through greater clarity in job descriptions and the

visualization of skills.
Figure  6-3 Employment Mismatch Index
<seasonally adjusted>
Figure  6-1 Gap between Unemployment Rate
and Sense of Labor Shortages
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Cabinet Office
Note: Both figures represent corporate equipment investment by private corporations.
Topic ①: The unemployment rate is at odds with the sense of labor shortages
Figure  6-2 Stagnation in Unemployment Pool
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Ministry of Health, Labour and

Welfare
Note: The employment mismatch index is calculated by summing the absolute differences
between the number of active job seekers and the number of active job openings in
each category.Occupations are categorized by major group; regions by prefecture; and
employment status by four categories: regular (part-time and full-time) and
temporary/seasonal (part-time and full-time). Occupations are adjusted for
the break caused by the 2023 revision of the occupational classifications.

Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
▲ 30
▲ 25
▲ 20
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
2013 15 17 19 21 23 25
Unemployment rate (left scale)
DI for employment conditions (right scale)
(%) (% points)
（Y/Q）
▲ 1,000
▲ 800
▲ 600
▲ 400
▲ 200
0
200
400
600
800
2013 15 17 19 21 23 25
(1,000 people)
(Y)
Many people remain unemployed
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Ministry Internal Affairs and

Communications.
Note: Stagnation in the umployment pool is equol to the number of people moving from the
non-labor  force to the unemployed minus the number of peple moving from
unemployment to employment.
▲ 0.06
▲ 0.04
▲ 0.02
0.00
0.02
0.04
0.06
0.08
2013 15 17 19 21 23 25
Across Occupations
Across Regions
Across Employment Types
(Y/M)
(Average difference from 2015 to 2017, Index)
The employment mismatch is
widening
- ６ -

### Page 9

【Political Parties' Stances on Consumption Tax Cuts】
① Food Only
・Permanent Reduction
Center Party, Japan Conservative Party: Permanent 0%
・Temporary Reduction
Liberal Democratic Party, Japan Innovation Party: 0% for 2 years
② All Items
Sansei Party, Reiwa Shinsengumi, Tax Reduction Japan/Yukoku Union, Social Democratic Party: Abolish
Democratic Party for the People: Temporary Uniform 5%
【Price Pass-Through Trends Among Small and Medium-Sized Businesses】

・Price pass-through is difficult
・Some progress has been made
・Progress has been made
・Primarily B2C
・Mostly B2C
・Primarily B2B
・Mostly B2B
(Source) National Federation of Small Business Associations
(Note) Based on survey results regarding wage increases, etc. (October 24 - November 14, 2025)
Conceptual Diagram of Real Consumption During Consumption Tax Cuts
(Real Consumption)
・Income Effect
・Substitution Effect
・Postponed Purchases/Last-Minute Spending

Announcement ⇒ Tax Cut ⇒ Subsequent Tax Increase
(Source) Prepared by Japan Research Institute based on the following literature: Takashi Unayama [2023], Analysis of Consumer Behavior in Contemporary Japan: Current Perspectives on the Life Cycle Theory, Keio University Press
(Note) Secondary demand fluctuations associated with postponement/rush purchases are not considered.
T
Figure  7-1 Real Private Consumption <YoY>
Figu
◆ Japanese consumption remains firm overall

Recently, household consumption has been generally holding up well even as
prices continue to rise. Two background factors underlie this: 1) growth in
employment income and 2) growth in asset income. The real incomes of employees
have increased on the back of rising numbers of people in employment and higher
wages. On the asset side, households' interest income has been growing, and
unrealized equity gains have also increased.
◆ Inequality among households is widening

That said, inequality among households has been widening. The employment
income environment varies considerably across households. Real income has
increased markedly among regular employees at major companies (who account for
12% of all workers), but has been sluggish for workers at many other firms.
As Japan transitions to a "world with interest rates," the gap in interest income
between the group receiving the least (the bottom 20% of those aged 39 and under)

and the group receiving the most (the top 20% of those aged 60 and over) has
widened from just under 700 yen per year in 2021 to approximately 120,000 yen per
year at present. The picture is similar for unrealized equity gains. It is only
households in the bottom 20% for savings that are in a situation where such gains fail
to cover the added burden of rising prices.
With the factors that support consumption distributed unevenly in this way, a
reduction in the consumption tax on food items, which is currently under

consideration, would disproportionately benefit wealthy households, who have
greater spending capacity, and it could therefore exacerbate inequality. Targeted
measures are needed to address the burden of rising prices on low-income
households, and one such measure could be the introduction of a refundable tax
credit system.
Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
Topic②: Inequality among households is widening in a "world with interest rates"

Figure  7-3  Stock Gains by Quintile of Household
Head Age
Figure  7-2 Real Scheduled Cash Earnings of
Regular Employees
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Ministry of Health, Labor and
Welfare
Note:   The major companies are those included in the Ministry of Health, Labour and
Welfare’s survey on spring wage increase demands and settlement status.
All companies are those with 10 or more regular employees, based on
the Basic Survey on Wage Structure.

Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Ministry of Internal Affairs
and Communications amd the Bank of Japan
Note:  Households with two or more members.
Source: Japan Research Institute, Ltd. based on data from the Cabinet Office
▲ 10
▲ 8
▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
2020 21 22 23 24 25
(%)
(Y/Q)
96
98
100
102
104
2021 22 23 24 25
Major companies
All companies
(CY2020 = 100)
(Y)
0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
6,000
Ⅰ Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ Ⅰ Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ Ⅰ Ⅱ Ⅲ Ⅳ Ⅴ

39 years old or
younger
Ages 40–59 60 years old or older
(From the end of 2021 to the end of 2025, 1,000 yen)
Less than the increase in the
burden caused by rising prices
- ７ -

### Page 10

The economic recovery will pause in the near term due to rising oil prices
◆ Higher oil prices are putting downward pressure on the corporate sector
Japan's economic recovery is expected to stall in the near term due to the impact
of higher crude oil prices. The conflict in the Middle East should subside by around
May, with WTI crude oil futures prices hovering around $100 before gradually
declining.
The corporate sector will weigh on the economy. Although investment demand to

address medium- to long-term challenges such as labor saving and digital
transformation will hold steady, goods exports are expected to weaken as surging oil
prices put downward pressure on national economies, particularly in Asia. Some
companies may also face production constraints due to shortages of raw materials.
The dampening effect of higher oil prices on global economic activity, combined
with rising fuel costs, is also expected to suppress inbound tourism demand.

Coupled with the slump in Chinese visitors to Japan amid deteriorating Japan-China
relations, growth in service exports is projected to slow.
The household sector, however, should remain resilient. The government looks
set to ease oil price-driven inflationary pressure through measures such as energy
subsidies. With high rates of wage growth continuing, a significant decline in real
incomes is likely to be avoided.
◆ Middle East tensions pose downside risks

Real GDP growth is projected to remain solid, registering +0.6% in FY2025 and
+0.8% in FY2026.
That said, if tensions in the Middle East persist for an extended period, crude oil
prices could rise further. This would intensify downward pressure on the corporate
sector, and there is a risk that the government may be unable to fully mitigate the
burden, leading to a deterioration in household real incomes and consumer
confidence. Furthermore, if constraints on the supply of oil and related products

tighten, a wide range of industries could be forced to curtail production, posing the
risk of a significant economic downturn.
Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited- ８ -

### Page 11

Figure 8 Projections for Japan’s GDP Growth and Main Indicators (as of  April 10, 2026)
Sources: Cabinet Office; Ministry of Internal Affairs and Communications; Ministry of Economy, Trade and Industry; Ministry of Finance
The projection figures are based on those from the Japan Research Institute, Ltd.
Monthly Report of Prospects for Japan's Economy April 2026
The Japan Research Institute, Limited
(% changes from the
(seasonally adjusted, annualized % changes from the previous quarter) previous fiscal year)

CY2025 CY2026 CY2027 CY2028
10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3
(Actual) (Projection) (Projection)
Real GDP 1.3 1.3 0.5 0.6 0.9 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.7 0.7 1.0 0.6 0.8
Private Consumption Expenditure 1.1 1.2 0.3 0.5 0.7 0.7 0.6 0.5 0.5 0.5 1.5 0.8 0.6
Housing Investment 21.0 1.1 0.6 0.0 -0.1  -0.3 -0.4 -0.5 -0.5 -0.5  -3.6 0.5  -0.4
Business Fixed Investment 5.4 2.0 1.6 1.6 1.6 1.5 1.5 1.4 1.4 1.3 2.3 2.0 1.5
( -1.0) ( 0.1) ( 0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.0) ( -0.2) ( -0.0)

Government Consumption Expenditure 1.5 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.0 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.8 1.0 1.0
Public Investment  -2.0 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2 1.2  -1.1 0.4 1.2
( -0.0) ( -0.4) ( -0.5) ( -0.4) ( -0.1) ( -0.1) ( -0.0) ( -0.1) ( -0.0) ( -0.1) ( -0.2) ( -0.4) ( -0.1)
Exports of Goods and Services  -1.4  -0.2  -0.9  -0.2 1.4 1.6 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.8 1.9  -0.5 1.6
Imports of Goods and Services  -1.3 1.8 1.3 1.4 1.9 1.9 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.8 1.1 1.9
(% changes from the

(% changes from the same quarter of the previous year)  previous fiscal year)
Nominal GDP 3.9 2.4 1.0 2.6 2.5 4.0 4.8 4.2 3.6 3.9 3.9 2.5 4.1
GDP deflator 3.4 1.4 0.9 1.7 1.8 3.3 4.0 3.4 2.8 3.2 2.9 1.9 3.3
Consumer Price Index (excluding fresh food) 2.8 1.8 1.8 2.0 2.5 2.7 2.6 2.2 1.8 2.1 2.7 2.2 2.2
Unemployment Rate    (％) 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6 2.6
Exchange Rates     (JY/US$) 154 157 158 158 156 156 154 154 152 152 151 157 153

Import Price of Crude Oil      (US$/barrel) 71 68 114 91 84 81 78 76 76 76 72 92 76
FY2026
Private Inventories (percentage points contribution)
Net Exports (percentage points contribution)
FY2025 FY2026
- ９ -

---
## Document 300: June ECB cheat sheet_ How to train your hawks

Source PDF: all report pdf/June ECB cheat sheet_ How to train your hawks.pdf
Report source: ING Think
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Article | 5 June 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  5 June 2026   FX   RATES
June ECB cheat sheet: How to train your
hawks
Here are our four scenarios for the 11 June ECB meeting, alongside
implications for rates and FX. We think the ECB s current priority is
solidifying markets  expectations on further tightening to hedge against
inflation expectations de-anchoring. Our baseline is therefore a hawkish
hike, with some indications the bank is prepared to raise rates again

This is our market preview of June’s ECB meeting; you can find our macro team’s
preview here.

### Page 2

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 5 June 2026 2
Scenario analysis: How to position for Lagarde’s alternatives
The ECB is set to hike rates by 25bp on 11 June. Recent communication has effectively pre-
committed markets to this outcome. A hold would come as a shock and carry significant risk
for a central bank trying to avoid a repeat of the 2022 inflation crisis.
As such, our four scenarios for this meeting (above) exclude anything other than a 25bp move.

A 50bp hike could be included as an ultra-hawkish outcome, but there is already additional
tightening priced in for later this year, which means shocking markets now seems
unnecessary.
Focus on keeping markets hawkish
Markets are fully pricing in a 25bp hike, so focus will be on forward-looking language –
effectively a reality check on the 64bp of total tightening priced in by year-end. The Governing
Council and President Christine Lagarde will, in our view, share a key objective: to preserve

these hawkish market expectations.
That’s because the June move looks more like insurance than conviction. The risk of second-
round inflation effects remains as hard to estimate as the next chapter for the Gulf conflict and
energy prices. Inflation forecasts, typically central to the ECB reaction function, are now
heavily driven by oil prices and therefore less reliable in this environment. We think the real
battleground for the ECB now is inflation expectations. They are a function of rate

expectations, and unless the ECB keeps those hawkish, it risks de-anchoring.
So our baseline is a hawkish hike at this June meeting. Not so much because the ECB is
necessarily planning or willing to commit to another hike in July, September, or the fourth
quarter, but because it is the most prudent play as it waits for clarity on geopolitics,
energy, and the data. Our macro team has acknowledged rising risk of a follow-up move in
September, but our baseline remains that this June hike is a one-and-done.

### Page 3

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 5 June 2026 3
Rates: ECB should tread carefully to keep inflation
expectations anchored
Markets are already fully pricing in this hike, but we think a confirmation could still add more
upward pressure on the curve. When paired with forward guidance about future hikes, we see
rates nudge slightly higher. More emphasis on inflation risks could increase markets’ pricing of
inflation too, adding to the upward pressure.

A (too) dovish outcome risks feeding future inflation expectations, paradoxically adding
upward pressure on rates further out the curve. This would entail a significant steepening with
2-year rates edging lower on less tightening, but a sticky 10-year rate on the back of inflation
concerns further out the future. A ‘one-and-done’ narrative would strongly push against the
positioning of current markets, which have already priced in a second hike by September. The

ECB should therefore likely prefer to come across as too hawkish rather than too dovish.
Markets are also sensitive to the growth outlook and have been moving on ECB comments
regarding the risks. So far, market sentiment has been very positive, helped by strong US
equity performance. But the balance is fragile and an ECB voicing more worries about the
growth outlook could pose some downward pressure across the entire curve.
FX: ECB hawkishness can reinforce floor for EUR

Short-term rate differentials have regained explanatory power in our EUR/USD short-term fair
value model. That is likely a result of a hawkish Fed repricing while ECB tightening bets were
being questioned. The rewidening in the EUR:USD two-year swap rate differential has been
sizeable – roughly 25bp since end-April.
That differential is now pointing down for EUR/USD – other things equal – but still allows for a
spot at 1.160+ as long as oil remains well-behaved. A hawkish ECB hike on 11 June should keep

that equilibrium in place. It would also increase the upside potential for EUR/USD if the Strait of
Hormuz reopens, counting on a higher base for EUR short-term rates.
So, if we are right with our baseline view, there are upside risks on meeting day for EUR/USD,
with a firmer near-term outlook. We remain slightly bullish into summer, targeting a gradual
move back to 1.180 in a de-escalation scenario.

### Page 4

information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to
purchase or sell any financial instrument. Reasonable care has been taken to ensure that this publication is not untrue or

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.

---
## Document 317: Mining masks weakening construction, sharpening the RBA trade-off (2026-06-10)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Mining masks weakening construction, sharpening the RBA trade-off (2026-06-10).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 15
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#australia #construction
Mining masks weakening construction, sharpening the RBAtrade-off
By Pat Bustamante
Senior Economist, Westpac
15:23 May 27 2026 Share
Construction activity grew a strong 3.4% over the March quarter 2026, to be 6.3% higher in
year-ended terms.

### Page 2

Construction activity grew a strong 3.4% over the March quarter 2026, to be 6.3% higher in year-ended
terms. This was stronger than the gain of 1.0%qtr expected by Westpac Economics and 0.8%qtr
expected by the market.
However, the headline figure was inflated by the installation of a floating production unit for the
Scarborough Energy Project in WA. Importantly, this investment would have already largely been
reflected in National Accounts mining investment outcomes as progress payments were made.

Construction work done is recorded on a different value of work done/installed basis and is therefore
lumpier than business investment.
Outside of this, construction work done disappointed, falling around 1.0%qtr. The big surprise was the
0.6%qtr fall in residential construction over the quarter, with public infrastructure work also continuing to
slide, down 3.2%qtr in Q1 2026 and almost 6.0%yr.
Despite the fall in residential construction, construction cost pressures accelerated over the quarter.

This underscores the RBA’s difficult balancing act and the worsening trade-off between inflation and
real activity given the global supply shock. Last week’s Westpac-Now final estimate for Q1 2026
suggests that this trade-off will widen further in Q2 2026.
As we anticipated, this was offset by a 2.5%qtr increase in non-residential building, which was most
likely driven by construction of data centre structures.

### Page 3

What does this mean for the National Accounts?
Today’s release is the first of a set of partials which will feed into next week’s March quarter 2026
National Accounts. While the headline numbers suggest upside risks for the Q1 GDP outcome,
this is not the case. If anything, today’s numbers alone point to weaker growth. Today’s construction
work data is recorded on a value of work done/installed basis. This means capital expenditure on
machinery, equipment and structures is allocated to the quarter in which the capital items are ready for

use. On the other hand, the National Accounts are based on ‘progress payments’, where the value of
the investment is recorded incrementally as the project progresses, not just when the project is
complete.
What about inflationary pressures?
Cost pressures picked up to be above the pre-pandemic decade average, with residential and non-
residential deflators up 3.7% and 4.2% in six-month annualised terms, respectively. This is consistent
with the April 2026 CPI data, which shows clearer evidence of pass-through of upstream costs for

home building activity, notwithstanding the pull in activity we saw over the quarter. Engineering
construction costs are growing at around pre-pandemic rates, consistent with the significant pullback in
public infrastructure works.

### Page 4

The detail
The big surprise was the 0.6%qtr fall in residential construction over the quarter, driven by a 1.3%qtr
decline in the construction of new dwellings. New dwelling construction was 5.0% higher over the year
to Q1 2026, down from 8.7%yr in Q4 2025, indicating that the expansion in residential construction is
starting to fade.
On the other hand, renovation activity grew a strong 3.7%qtr, to be a solid 9.4% higher in year-ended
terms, returning to levels seen after the pandemic when the HomeBuilder program supported

renovation activity.

### Page 5

Engineering construction (EC) grew 6.9%qtr in Q1 2026, to be 4.7% higher in year-ended terms.
Looking through the mining-related spike, the dynamic was very different: EC declined 3.5%qtr in Q1
2026, to be 4.6% lower in year-ended terms.
As we foreshadowed in this month’s Market Outlook, the public infrastructure pipeline has passed its
peak as the transport mega projects along the east coast of Australia (particularly in Victoria) are
finalised. Consistent with this, public infrastructure work continued to slide, down 3.2%qtr in Q1 2026

and almost 6.0%yr.
After adjusting for mining-related volatility, private EC work grew almost 2.0%qtr and 7.3%yr. Private
work on electricity generation and distribution (which is dominated by renewable energy projects such
as wind and solar) remains elevated, notwithstanding the fall in public activity.
The near-term private engineering construction pipeline looks full of potential, driven by structural
industries related to renewables and the data centre roll-out across the country. However, constraints

related to the provision of utility services and connecting infrastructure present a risk.
Non-residential building construction grew 2.5%qtr, to be 11.2% higher in year-ended terms.
Growth in private activity rose 3.6%qtr, to be 13.8% higher in annual terms, more than offsetting a
0.2%qtr fall in public activity.

### Page 6

While it is unclear which projects are driving the increase, there was a large spike in the
commencement of data centres (commercial building n.e.c) in the second half of 2025, which has likely
supported activity this quarter and will continue to do so going forward.

### Page 7

State detail
Construction work done was mixed across the states in the March quarter 2026. Western Australia
(+30.6%qtr), Tasmania (+5.5%qtr) and Queensland (+2.1%qtr) recorded increases, while all other
states and territories saw declines.
New South Wales (-0.7%qtr) and South Australia (-1.0%qtr) recorded modest falls, while Victoria saw a
sharper decline (-5.0%qtr). The ACT (-10.3%qtr) and Northern Territory (-13.3%qtr) also contracted
over the quarter.

Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 8

Related articles
Australia and NZ Weekly 8 June 2026
June 09 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &10 more

### Page 9

Australia and NZ Weekly 8 June 2026
June 05 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &10 more
#australia

### Page 10

Lumps, bumps and technology waves
June 05 2026 • 5 mins
By Luci Ellis
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

### Page 11

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 12

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 13

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 14

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 15

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 320: Monthly household spending indicator_ unwind of fuel-related spike (2026-06-10)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Monthly household spending indicator_ unwind of fuel-related spike (2026-06-10).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
HOUSEHOLD SPENDING
INDICATOR BULLETIN
Unwind of fuel-related spike
28 May 2026
Key points
• Household spending fell –1.1%mth in
April, unwinding most of the spike from
March. This leaves the annual pace slightly
above February’s read, at 4.9%yr.
• Goods spending fell, but the decline
in services spending was much larger.
The bulk of the decline was centred on
non-discretionary categories, though
discretionary spending also fell.

• The main driver was an unwind in auto
fuel-related spending. This mostly looks to
be price-led, due to Government’s halving
of the fuel excise duty, with estimates of
spending volumes picking up in the month.
• Higher jet fuel prices contributed to a fall
in transport services spending also, with
households scaling back travel plans
and some airlines cancelling flights.
• The outlook for consumer spending
remains gloomy, with consumer
sentiment probing pandemic-era lows

and discretionary card activity stalling.
April household
spending
indicator:
–1.1%mth, 4.9%yr

### Page 2

2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
BULLETIN
The monthly household spending indicator fell –1.1%mth
in April, unwinding a large share of March’s 1.6%mth gain.
This pull-back was not as large as the market was expecting
(–0.5%mth), but it was virtually spot on with Westpac’s
forecast for a –1.0%mth fall, based on evidence from our
Westpac–DataX Card Tracker (see here). This brings annual
growth back down to 4.9%yr, slightly above the rate from
February.
By broad category, goods spending pulled back –0.4%mth

following a 2.9%mth bounce in March. Meanwhile, services
spending bore the brunt of the fall, having declined –1.9%mth
after holding broadly flat in March. Non-discretionary spend
also fell –1.7%mth, while discretionary spend dropped –0.8%.
Underscoring these broad strokes are a number of detailed
moves. Most notably, transport spending fell –4.7%mth after
a solid 5.4% gain in March. Much of this relates to an unwind
in auto fuel spending by consumers, due to the Government’s

halving of the fuel excise duty from 1 April. Experimental
estimates confirm this was a price-led decline, as monthly
volumes of auto fuel spending increased 2.0%mth in April.
While this explains much of the fall in goods spending, higher
jet fuel prices also contributed to a fall in transport services
spending, with the ABS stating that “households scaled back
travel in response to broader uncertainties and higher airfares”,
though this was partly offset by some refunds as “airlines

cancelled routes during the month to keep services viable.”
Across other categories, food spending retraced an outsized
gain from March, falling –1.3%mth in April, with the ABS
also noting a continuing “shift towards generic brands and
cheaper products in supermarkets.” Clothing and footwear
also recorded a large fall (–2.2%mth). Moves were generally
more modest elsewhere: small falls in recreation and culture
(–0.2%mth), household furnishings (–0.2%), and modest gains

in hospitality (+0.5%mth) and health (+0.5%mth).
State outcomes were negative across the board, albeit with
a usual degree of variation. The decline was led by WA
(–1.9%mth), followed by Vic (–1.5%mth), SA (–1.2%mth), Qld
(–1.0%mth) and NSW (–0.8%mth), with Tas bucking the wider
trend and recording a small lift (+0.3%mth).
Looking ahead, the outlook for consumer spending remains
gloomy. Consumer sentiment is deeply pessimistic,
reminiscent of the scars left by the post-pandemic cost-of-

living crisis (see here). Our Westpac–DataX Card Tracker
also shows that monthly growth momentum in discretionary
spend is stalling. This points to a risk of further moderation in
household spending over the coming months.
Transport spend unwind, on fuel prices and air travel
Household spending indicator – Apr 2026
$bn % chg mth % chg yr
Apr-26 Mar-26 Apr-26 Mar-26 Apr-26
sa 79.4 1.6 –1.1 6.2 4.9
trend 79.5 0.2 0.1 4.8 4.5
Source: ABS, Macrobond, Westpac Economics.

Ryan Wells
Economist, Westpac Group
P: +61 401 423 628
E: ryan.wells@westpac.com.au

### Page 4

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where
acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA
brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac Group” are
to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy Policy
here, or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.  Each time someone

visits our site, data is captured so that we can accurately evaluate the
quality of our content and make improvements for you. We may at times
use technology to capture data about you to help us to better understand
you and your needs, including potentially for the purposes of assessing your
individual reading habits and interests to allow us to provide suggestions
regarding other reading material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or sell any financial
instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract. To the extent that
this information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice. Certain
types of transactions, including those involving futures, options and high

yield securities give rise to substantial risk and are not suitable for all
investors. We recommend that you seek your own independent legal or
financial advice before proceeding with any investment decision.
This information may contain material provided by third parties. While
such material is published with the necessary permission none of
Westpac or its related entities accepts any responsibility for the accuracy
or completeness of any such material. Although we have made every

none of Westpac or its related entities is under any obligation to update
this information or correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent
at a later date. This information may contain or incorporate by reference
forward looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”, “will”,
“should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are predictions
of or indicate future events and future trends identify forward-looking

future performance, nor are forecasts of future performance. Whilst
every effort has been taken to ensure that the assumptions on which any
forecasts are based are reasonable, the forecasts may be affected by
incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties.
The ultimate outcomes may differ substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act in several

capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter, distributor, swap
counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a
financial instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may
impact the performance of a financial instrument. The Westpac Group
may at any time transact or hold a position (including hedging and trading
positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly,
related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations expressed in this
material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal views about
the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on
sources reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of
the author’s knowledge, they are not in receipt of inside information and

this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no other part of
the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to environmental,
social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject to known and
unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties, limitations, risks
and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data, scenarios, reporting

completeness or reliability of the information. There is a risk that the
analysis, estimates, judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios
or projections used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause
actual outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice, nor are
they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and Westpac gives
no representation, warranty or assurance (including as to the quality,

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or request
a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this information
contains any general advice, it has been prepared without taking into account
your objectives, financial situation or needs and before acting on it you should
consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand:  In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
(“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not
represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries guarantee or otherwise
support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product.

investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore laws and regulations)
only. Recipients of this material in Singapore should contact Westpac
Singapore Branch in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection
with, this material. Westpac Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking
licence and is subject to supervision by the Monetary Authority of
Singapore.
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji
are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac Banking Corporation

ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not take your personal
circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW
Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of its members is
limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.pg  ©

### Page 5

does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting
on it you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141
is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in Papua New
Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is
limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as a federally
licensed branch, regulated by the Office of the Comptroller of the

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither registered
as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant registered with the
US CFTC. The services and products referenced above are not insured
by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Westpac Capital
Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westpac, is a
broker-dealer registered under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act of 1934

‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM
other than as provided for in certain legal agreements between Westpac
and WCM and obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the
independence and disclosure standards applicable to debt research

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations of,
the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S. securities or
related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S. companies may not
be subject to audit and reporting standards and regulatory requirements
comparable to those in effect in the United States. The value of any

investment or income from any securities or related derivative instruments
denominated in a currency other than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange
rate fluctuations that may have a positive or adverse effect on the value of
or income from such securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated
person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of FINRA, any

other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or regulations of
any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein
are solely those of the author and may differ from the information, views or
analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom
by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation
by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited regulation by the

PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London branch of
Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the
United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the
regulation of Westpac’s London branch by the PRA are available from us on
request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not
be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this
communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those persons

falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in Article
19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion)
Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition
of high net worth companies, unincorporated associations etc. (set out in
Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it
may otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons together being referred

to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should
not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for
“eligible counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules
of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.
Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to
you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”)
under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or otherwise
modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by
the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its
regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin and the German
Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered with the

commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am
Main under registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s
Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related Entities’, Westpac
does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain legal
agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement)
between Westpac and WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent
liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made available by WEG does

material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’ and/or ‘information
recommending or suggesting an investment’, both as defined in Regulation
(EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable in the United Kingdom)
(“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant provisions of MAR, reasonable
care has been taken to ensure that the material has been objectively
presented and that interests or conflicts of interest of the sender
concerning the financial instruments to which that information relates

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has not
been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed to promote
the independence of investment research and therefore constitutes a
marketing communication. Further, this communication is not subject to
any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment
research.

---
## Document 361: The nowcasts, updated scenario and forecasts of the Economic Research - 8 June 2026 (2026-06-08)

Source PDF: all report pdf/The nowcasts, updated scenario and forecasts of the Economic Research - 8 June 2026 (2026-06-08).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-06-08
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

economic
-
research.bnpparibas.com

NOWCASTS OF THE 
E
CONOMI
C RESEARCH 
Eurozone 
 France 
 Belgium

Source: 
Refinitiv, BNP Paribas

Source: 
Refinitiv, BNP Paribas

Source: 
Refinitiv, BNP Paribas

Our nowcast for 
 E
urozone growth has been 
revised downward due to the deterioration in 
confidence surveys (PMI, consumer 
confidence). It still points to a 0.2% 
 q/q 
increase in activity in Q2, 
 against a forecast of 
0.3% q/q
.

Our 
nowcast  
for French 
 GDP 
 growth suggests 
 a 
recovery in 
 Q
2 
2026, at +0.
 2
% 
q/q, 
driven by the 
one
-
 off factors  
 that weighed on Q1 GDP 
(aeronautics exports and construction output
 ).

Our 
nowcast 
 for Q2 Belgium GDP growth 
suggests a low figure (0.1% q/q)
 , driven by the 
propagat
 ion of energy price shock 
 throughout 
the economy, with 40% of construction and 
manufacturing firms announcing 
 selling 
 price 
hikes in the next 3 mont
 h
s
.

Read the 
Nowcast methodology 
Tarik.rharrab@bnpparibas.com

-0.2
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Mar 22
 Nov 22
 Jul 23
 Mar 24
 Nov 24
 Jul 25
 Mar 26
Observed GDP growth
BNPP Nowcast, Q2 2026
%, q/q
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
Mar 22
 Nov 22
 Jul 23
 Mar 24
 Nov 24
 Jul 25
 Mar 26
Observed GDP growth
BNPP Nowcast, Q2 2026
%, q/q
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
Mar 22
 Nov 22
 Jul 23
 Mar 24
 Nov 24
 Jul 25
 Mar 26
Observed GDP growth
BNPP Fortis Nowcast, Q2 2026
%, q/q
ECONOMIC SCENARIO AND FORECAST
S 
GDP growth and Inflation

Interest and exchange rates

%
 2024
 2025
 2026 e
 2027 e
 2024
 2025
 2026 e
 2027 e
United States
 2.8
 2.1
 2.4
 2.3
 2.9
 2.7
 3.7
 2.8
Japan
 -0.2 
 1.1
 0.5
 0.7
 2.7
 3.1
 2.3
 3.1
United Kingdom
 1.0
 1.4
 0.7
 1.2
 2.5
 3.4
 3.4
 3.2
Euro Area
 0.9
 1.5
 0.6
 1.6
 2.4
 2.1
 3.0
 3.3
 Germany
 -0.5 
 0.3
 0.8
 1.1
 2.5
 2.2
 3.2
 3.5
 France
 1.1
 0.9
 0.8
 1.1
 2.3
 1.0
 2.2
 1.6
 Italy
 0.6
 0.7
 0.8
 0.8
 1.1
 1.7
 3.1
 3.7
 Spain
 3.5
 2.8
 2.3
 2.2
 2.8
 2.7
 3.3
 3.1
China
 5.0
 5.0
 4.6
 4.5
 0.2
 0.0
 1.3
 1.4
India*
 7.1
 7.7
 6.6
 6.8
 4.6
 2.1
 5.1
 4.2
Brazil
 3.4
 2.3
 2.3
 1.4
 4.4
 5.0
 4.7
 5.1
Source : BNP Paribas (e: Estimates & forecasts)
Last update: 08/06/2026
* Fiscal year from April 1 of year N to March 31 of year N+1
GDP Growth
 Inflation
Interest rates, %
End of period
 Spot 29/05
 Q2
 Q3
 Q4
 Q4
US
 Fed Funds 
(upper limit)
 3.75
 3.75
 3.75
 4.00
 4.50
T-Note 10y 
 4.43
 4.55
 4.65
 4.75
 4.85
Eurozone
 deposit rate
 2.00
 2.25
 2.50
 2.50
 2.50
Bund 10y
 2.90
 3.15
 3.20
 3.35
 3.10
OAT 10y
 3.49
 3.77
 4.00
 4.17
 3.60
BTP 10y
 3.66
 3.85
 3.95
 4.10
 3.60
BONO 10y
 3.36
 3.57
 3.64
 3.79
 3.42
UK
 Base rate
 3.75
 3.75
 4.25
 4.25
 3.50
Gilts 10y
 4.82
 4.70
 4.60
 4.50
 4.30
Japan
 BoJ Rate
 0.75
 1.00
 1.00
 1.25
 2.00
JGB 10y
 2.63
 2.70
 2.85
 2.85
 3.10
Exchange Rates
End of period
 Spot 29/05
 Q2
 Q3
 Q4
 Q4
USD
 EUR / USD
 1.17
 1.19
 1.20
 1.21
 1.25
USD / JPY
 159
 159
 159
 160
 160
GBP / USD
 1.35
 1.35
 1.35
 1.35
 1.36
EUR
 EUR / GBP
 0.87
 0.88
 0.89
 0.90
 0.92
EUR / JPY
 186
 189
 191
 194
 200
Brent
Quarter Average
Spot 29/05
 Q2
 Q3
 Q4
 Q4
Brent
 USD/bbl
 94
 110
 90
 85
 83
Sources: BNP Paribas (Market Economics, Interest Rate Strategy, FX Strategy, 
Commodities Desk Strategy), Last update: 08/06/2026
2026
2026
2026
 2027
2027
2027
The scenario, forecasts and nowcasts of the Economic Research 
– 
8 
June 
2026

Contacts 
Stephane.colliac@bnpparibas.com  
Tarik.rharrab@bnpparibas.com

### Page 2

UNITED STATES 
The US economy is expected to grow above its potential in 2026, with an average annual growth rate of 2.3%, a yearly improvement (up from 
2.1% in 2025). This apparent resilience to energy, uncertainty and tariff and energy shocks, together with above -trend productivity growth, 
masks K-shaped growth, driven by investment linked to AI-optimism and consumption by the wealthiest amid a wealth effect (historically high 
stock market valuations). Inflation overshooting is set to continue (3.7% in 2026) at least through 2028, largely because of the rise in oil prices 
and tariffs – although the impact of these appears to be less significant than expected. The labour market is showing clear signs of improvement 
that should bring the unemployment rate down toward 4.0%. Given this shift in price and employment risks amid dynamic growth, we expect 
the FOMC to implement one rate hike (+25pb) and bring the Fed Funds target range at 3.75% - 4.0% by year-end.

CHINA 
Economic growth accelerated to +5.0% y/y in Q1 2026, vs. +4.5% in Q4 2025. It stood at 5% in 2025 as a whole and it is expected to slow 
moderately in 2026. Growth remains characterized by a K-shaped trajectory. On the one hand, exports are still dynamic , and Chinese goods 
are likely to remain competitive in the short term. On the other hand, domestic demand remains sluggish. It rebounded in the first two months 
of 2026 but has weakened significantly since March. The crisis in the property sector continues and confidence of households and private 
investors remains low. The authorities will maintain supportive fiscal and monetary policies, but the ir measures may continue to be modest, 
even in a less supportive global environment. Deflationary pressures are expected to decline in 2026, notably thanks to highe r global energy 
prices and anti-involution measures implemented by the authorities.

EUROZONE 
Eurozone growth would slow in 2026 due to spillovers from the Middle East conflict. In Q1 2026, GDP growth contracted 0.2% q/q mainly due 
to the volatility of Ireland’s GDP data, but growth in the rest of the Eurozone remained resilient (+0.2% q/q). In 2026, consumption would be 
held back by falling real wages. GDP growth, which reached 1.5% in 2025, would slow down to 0.6% in 2026, before rebounding at  1.6% in 
2027, while inflation would rebound to 3.0% in 2026 and 3.3% in 2027 (compared to 2.1% in 2025). Activity would nevertheless withstand the 
energy shock, supported by investment in defence, AI, and electrification, which should continue to boost intra-EU trade. As inflation rebounds, 
two 25-basis-point hikes in the ECB’s policy rate would take place in 2026 – with the first hike expected in June – pushing the deposit facility 
rate to 2.5%. As inflation rebounds, two 25-basis-point hikes in the ECB’s policy rate would take place in 2026 – with the first hike expected in 
June – pushing the deposit facility rate to 2.5%.

FRANCE 
GDP growth deteriorated to -0.1% q/q in Q1 (after 0.2% q/q in Q4) as a result of one-off factors, including low aeronautics exports (-20% q/q 
despite an increase of the output) and construction output ( -1.5% q/q). From Q2 2026, growth should be affected by the impact of higher oil 
prices on inflation (2.4% in 2026, after 1% in 2025) and household purchasing power (with a likely impact on their consumption). In 2026, GDP 
growth should reach 0.8% in 2026 (after 0.9% in 2025), driven by public spending and private investment in AI. Higher inflation (2.2% in 2026, 
after 1% in 2025) would weigh on GDP growth.

UNITED KINGDOM 
Economic activity is expected to slow  down in 2026, with growth limited to 0.7% after 1.4% in 2025; following +0.4% q/q in Q1, the average 
quarterly pace would fall to around +0.1%. This slowdown would occur against a backdrop of renewed inflationary pressures triggered by the 
war in Iran: inflation would reach 3.4% y/y before easing only gradually to 3.23% y/y in 2027, remaining well above BoE's target. In this context, 
and contrary to the initially envisaged easing scenario, monetary policy would shift toward a tightening of 50 basis points i n 2026. 10y gilt 
yields will remain elevated in 2026, before falling to 4.30% in 2027 on reduced net supply, a decline in political risk premia and a market starting 
to eye BoE rate cuts.

JAPAN 
The energy shock is set to impact the strong momentum of the Japanese economy negatively. We expect annual GDP growth to stand at 0.5% 
in 2026, down from 1.1% in 2025. Higher inflation and production costs are expected to weigh on the economy’s overall performance. On the 
other hand, the latter is still tempered by structural supply constraints and supported by fiscal policy and wage growth. Inflation has generally 
overshot the 2% y/y target since 2022 and is expected to stay there through at least 2028. Accordingly, the Bank of Japan ini tiated a process 
of “adjustment in the degree of monetary accommodation” in 2024, lifting the policy rate to 0.75% so far (previously negative). We expect the 
process to extend, including one hike (25pb) in Q2 2026, until a 2.0% terminal rate in end -2027. Japan is facing long-term rates pressure, 
illustrated by historically high 10- and 30-year yields, probably fueled by the level of public debt and the pace of monetary adjustment.

EXCHANGE RATES 
In our base-case scenario (gradual normalisation of the Middle East situation with persistent price tensions), we expect the USD deprecia tion 
against the EUR to resume, albeit very gradually, amid broader diversification away from the dollar. We forecast E UR/USD to reach 1.21 by 
Q4 2026 and 1.25 by Q4 2027. We anticipate stabilisation of the yen and the GBP against the dollar in 2026 (USD/JPY 160 and GBP/ USD 1.35 
by Q4 2026) and 2027.

---
## Document 375: “AI牛”摇摇欲坠！周四凌晨，甲骨文财报成下一道关键压力测试

Source PDF: all report pdf/“AI牛”摇摇欲坠！周四凌晨，甲骨文财报成下一道关键压力测试.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

---
## Document 423: グラフで見る景気予報 (2026年6月)

Source PDF: all report pdf/グラフで見る景気予報 (2026年6月).pdf
Report source: MURC
Date: 2026-06-02
Pages: 23
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 6 月 2 日

調査レポート

グラフで見る景気予報 (6 月)

調査部 
【今月の景気判断】 
国内景気は、イラン情勢の緊迫化が懸念材料となりながらも、緩やかに持ち直している。内需においては、食
料品を中心とした物価高により家計の節約志向が根強いものの、雇用・所得環境の改善が下支えとなり、個人消
費は緩やかに持ち直している。また企業部門でも、堅調な投資意欲に支えられて、設備投資は緩やかに持ち直
している。外需については、日中関係の悪化によりインバウンド需要の増勢が鈍化しているものの、トランプ関税
の影響で落ち込んでいた米国向け輸出には持ち直しの動きがみられる。こうした動きを受けて、生産は底堅く推
移している。 
今後は、ホルムズ海峡の封鎖が長引く中で、原油価格上昇によるインフレの再加速懸念、原油やナフサといっ
た輸入原材料不足による供給制約の顕在化、物流網の混乱による中東向け輸出の停滞などから、景気の下押し
圧力が強まっていく可能性がある。政府による原油備蓄の放出や石油元売り企業への補助再開などが下支えと
なることで、景気の腰折れは回避できるとみられるものの、イラン情勢緊迫化による悪影響を政策対応で完全に
抑えることは難しく、一時的に景気減速感が強まることは避けがたい。特に個人消費は消費者マインドの悪化、設
備投資はコストの増加や供給制約の問題、輸出は中東向けの停滞や部材不足などが下押し要因になるだろう。
加えて、日中関係の悪化を受けたインバウンドの減少やレアアース輸出規制の本格化、米国の通商政策をめぐ
る不透明感、金利上昇による住宅購入や設備投資需要の抑制、人手不足による供給制約の深刻化なども引き続
き景気の下振れリスクとして意識される。

【今月の景気予報】

（注）1．3 カ月前～、～3 カ月後は｢現況｣の変化の方向感（改善、横ばい、悪化）を表し、            
「現況｣は現在の水準を天気マークで表す。 
2．シャドー部分は、前月から矢印および天気マークを変更した項目を表す。  
3カ月前～ 現況 ～3カ月後 3カ月前～ 現況 ～3カ月後
景気全般 輸出
個人消費 輸入
住宅投資 生産
設備投資 雇用
公共投資 賃金

### Page 2

【当面の注目材料】 
 個人消費～実質賃金の動向、物価高に対する消費者マインドの動き 
 企業部門～企業の業績・設備投資の動向、人手不足・賃上げへの対応 
 海外経済～トランプ米大統領の政策と世界経済の先行き、米国の金融政策の行方、ウクライナ情勢の動向 
 その他～イラン情勢の緊迫化、日中関係の悪化、高市政権による経済政策の動向、日本銀行による利上げ
や長期金利の動向、円安の影響、AI ブームの行方

～本レポートについては最終ページ【景気予報ガイド】参照

### Page 3

【各項目のヘッドライン】

6. 4 月の住宅着工（季節調整値）は 4カ月連続で減少した。 
9. 4 月の実質輸入は 2カ月連続で減少した。 
10. 企業物価は前年比のプラス幅が急拡大する一方、消費者物価は安定した伸びが続いている。

（＊）参考資料：｢コモディティ・レポート｣→ 
https://www.murc.jp/library/economyresearch/periodicals/commodity/

項目 5月のコ メ ン ト 6月のコ メ ン ト ページ
1． 景気全般 緩やかに持ち直している 緩やかに持ち直している 5～7
2． 生産 横ばい 横ばい 8～9
3． 雇用 改善している 改善している 10
4． 賃金 増加している 増加している 11
5． 個人消費 緩やかに持ち直している 緩やかに持ち直している 11～12
6． 住宅投資 横ばい 弱含んでいる 13
7． 設備投資 緩やかに持ち直している 緩やかに持ち直している 13
8． 公共投資 横ばい圏で推移している 横ばい圏で推移している 14
9． 輸出入･国際収支 輸出、輸入ともに横ばい 輸出は横ばい、輸入は弱含み 14～16
10． 物価 企業物価、消費者物価ともに上昇 企業物価は急上昇、消費者物価は緩やかに上
昇 17
（注）シャドー部分は前月と比較して見方を変更した項目
11． 世界景気 米国は底堅いが欧州、中国は弱い 米国は底堅いが欧州、中国は弱い 17
12． 世界の物価 原油価格上昇の影響が懸念材料 原油価格上昇の影響が懸念材料 18
13．原油（＊） 一進一退 一進一退 18
14． 国内金利 上昇 急上昇後やや低下 19
15． 米国金利 上昇 上昇後、低下 19
16． 国内株価 急上昇 急騰 20
17． 米国株価 急上昇 上昇 20
18． 為替 円は対ドルで下落後、急反発 円は下落 21
19． 金融 マネーストックは緩やかに増加し、銀行貸出
残高は堅調に増加
マネーストックは緩やかに増加し、銀行貸出
残高は堅調に増加 22

### Page 4

【主要経済指標の推移】

（注） 1．括弧書きのない場合、単位は前年比、% 
    2．月次値がある場合、四半期値は月次値からの計算値。ただし、月末値の場合は四半期末値。

25 25 25 25 26 25 26 26 26 26 26
1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 12 1 2 3 4 5
実質GDP（前期比年率、％）  1.8  1.4 -2.5  0.8  2.1
短観業況判断DI（大企業製造業） 12 13 14 15 17 14 <26年6 月予想>
　　　　　　　（大企業非製造業） 35 34 34 34 36 29 <26年6 月予想>
　　　　　　　（中小企業製造業） 2 1 1 6 7 4 <26年6 月予想>
          　　　   （中小企業非製造業） 16 15 14 15 16 8 <26年6 月予想>
景気 法人企業統計経常利益 （全産業、季節調整値、前期比） -4.2  1.9  4.6  2.8  4.1
全般 　　　　　　　　　　 （製造業、季節調整値、前期比） -19.9 -0.9  11.5  13.7  11.2
　　　　　　　　　　（非製造業、季節調整値、前期比）  6.0  3.2  1.4 -2.9 -0.2 
景気動向指数（CI、先行指数）（15年=100）  107.4  104.8  107.1  109.7  113.1  110.4  112.0  113.2  114.0
　　　　　　（CI、一致指数）（15年=100）  116.2  115.7  114.6  114.9  116.8  114.4  117.9  116.2  116.4
　　　　　　（DI、先行指数）  53.0  25.8  60.6  80.3  73.3  81.8  75.0  75.0  70.0
　　　　　　（DI、一致指数）  41.7  33.3  30.0  61.7  72.2  35.0  77.8  61.1  77.8
景気の現状判断DI（景気ウォッチャー調査、季節調整値）  46.4  44.8  46.4  48.0  46.2  47.7  47.6  48.9  42.2  40.8
景気の先行き判断DI（景気ウォッチャー調査、季節調整値）  46.6  45.2  47.8  50.4  46.3  49.5  50.1  50.0  38.7  39.4
鉱工業生産（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  0.0 -0.5 -1.0  0.2  2.5  0.6  4.3 -2.0 -0.4  0.8
鉱工業出荷（季節調整済、前期比・前月比） -0.3  0.3 -0.9  0.4  1.3 -1.1  3.8 -1.5 -0.9  1.5
鉱工業在庫（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  0.6 -2.0  0.1 -1.2 -2.3  0.6 -0.8  0.3 -1.8 -0.2 
第３次産業活動指数（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  1.3  0.7  0.3  0.2  0.8 -0.7  2.0 -0.7 -0.2 
失業率（季節調整値、％）  2.5  2.5  2.5  2.6  2.7  2.6  2.7  2.6  2.7  2.5
雇用 就業者数（ 季節調整値、万人）  6816  6823  6828  6845  6820 6846 6817 6827 6815 6876
・ 雇用者数（季節調整値、万人）  6172  6178  6186  6205  6190 6208 6197 6197 6175 6238
所得 新規求人倍率（ 季節調整値、倍）  2.29  2.21  2.15  2.13  2.12 2.14 2.11 2.10 2.15 2.11
有効求人倍率（季節調整値、倍） 1.25 1.23 1.21 1.19 1.18 1.20 1.18 1.19 1.18 1.18
現金給与総額  2.3  2.2  2.3  2.2  3.0  2.4  2.5  3.4  3.1
実質消費支出（二人以上の世帯/農林漁家含む）  0.8  2.0  1.8 -0.9 -1.9 -2.6 -1.0 -1.8 -2.9 
　　　　　　（うち勤労者世帯/農林漁家含む）  0.9  3.7  5.6  1.2 -1.3 -3.6 -0.7  0.5 -3.6 
総消費動向指数（2020年基準）実質（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  0.4  0.5  0.5  0.0  0.1 -0.1  0.1  0.0  0.0
個人 新車販売台数（含む軽）  14.0  6.5 -4.4 -3.7 -5.4 -0.8 -6.2 -7.3 -3.2  9.7  2.8
消費 新車販売台数（除く軽）  11.2  3.0 -6.2 -6.3 -8.4 -1.6 -7.7 -9.8 -7.9  16.9  5.3
商業販売額・小売業  2.9  2.4 -0.1  0.5  1.1 -0.9  1.8 -0.1  1.4  2.1
百貨店販売高・全国 -0.1 -6.7 -1.2  1.0  2.1 -1.1  2.3  1.6  3.2  5.2
住宅 新設住宅着工戸数（ 季節調整済年率、千戸） 867 620 719 756 747 756 755 751 736 724
投資 　　　　　　　　（前年比、％） 11.6 -25.2 -9.0 -2.1 -13.8 -1.3 -0.4 -4.9 -29.3  11.4
設備 機械受注（民需/除船電、季節調整済、前月比）  3.5  0.6 -1.0  6.6  6.4  16.1 -5.5  13.6 -9.4 
投資         （同前年比） 5.6 6.3 6.6 8.1 12.6  16.8  13.7  24.7  5.9
公共投資 公共工事請負額 -3.6 9.5 8.6 9.6 17.3  14.9  9.1  23.6  17.5  4.7
通関輸出（金額ベース、円建て） 7.4 -0.1 0.3 4.9 10.5 5.1 16.8 4.0 11.5 14.8
実質輸出（季節調整済、前期比・前月比） 2.9 -0.3 -1.6 0.0 2.2 -2.6  4.3 -3.0  0.9 -2.8 
通関輸入（金額ベース、円建て）  6.1 -3.1 -3.1  2.6  5.8  5.4 -2.6  10.3  11.0  9.8
実質輸入（季節調整済、前期比・前月比）  5.0  1.0 -0.5 -0.1  2.0 -0.3 -0.9  5.5 -4.7 -3.9 
経常収支（季節調整値、百億円）  758.0  735.5  891.0  827.2  977.2  263.2  317.0  270.1  390.1
貿易収支（季節調整値、百億円） -99.5 -13.6  4.2  37.7  104.3  0.4  93.5 -31.0  41.8
 物    価 企業物価指数（国内）  4.3  3.3  2.6  2.6  2.5  2.4  2.4  2.1  2.9  4.9
消費者物価指数（除く生鮮）  3.1  3.5  2.9  2.8  1.8  2.4  2.0  1.6  1.8  1.4
 金    融 マネーストック（M2、平残）  1.1  0.6  1.3  1.7  1.8  1.7  1.6  1.7  2.0  2.3
　　　　　　　（M3、平残）  0.6  0.2  0.8  1.1  1.2  1.1  1.0  1.2  1.4  1.6
貸出平残（銀行計）  3.2  2.7  3.8  4.6  5.0  4.8  4.9  4.9  5.2  6.0
 市場データ 原油価格（ WTI期近物、ドル/バレル） 71.5 63.8 65.0 59.1 72.1 57.9 60.1 64.5 91.0 98.1 98.2
（期中平均） 無担保コール翌日物（％） 0.416 0.477 0.477 0.504 0.728 0.557 0.728 0.728 0.728 0.727 0.727
東京ターム物リスク・フリー・レート（ TORF）3カ月（％） 0.472 0.489 0.514 0.610 0.780 0.691 0.737 0.784 0.816 0.837 0.862
新発10年物国債利回り（％） 1.36 1.40 1.56 1.79 2.21 1.98 2.20 2.19 2.23 2.41 2.65
FFレート（％） 4.33 4.33 4.30 3.90 3.64 3.73 3.64 3.64 3.64 3.64 3.63
米国債10年物利回り（％） 4.45 4.36 4.26 4.10 4.20 4.14 4.21 4.13 4.25 4.32 4.48
日経平均株価（円） 38448 36764 42230 49598 54508 50162 53077 56481 53965 57246 62774
東証株価指数（TOPIX）（ポイント） 2741 2687 3016 3311 3667 3388 3578 3779 3645 3727 3869
ダウ工業株価指数（月末値、ドル） 42002 44095 46398 48063 46342 48063 48892 48978 46342 49652 51032
ナスダック株価指数（月末値、1971/2/5=100） 17299 20370 22660 23242 21591 23242 23462 22668 21591 24892 26973
円相場（東京市場中心相場、円/ドル） 152.5 144.5 147.4 154.0 156.9 155.9 156.7 155.1 158.6 159.3 158.3
円相場（東京市場17:00時点、円/ユーロ） 160.5 163.8 172.3 179.3 183.7 182.5 184.0 183.6 183.4 186.2 184.8
ドル相場（東京市場17:00時点、ドル/ユーロ） 1.05 1.13 1.17 1.16 1.17 1.17 1.17 1.18 1.16 1.17 1.17
経 済 指 標
生産
外需

### Page 5

1. 景気全般 ～緩やかに持ち直している 
2026 年 1～3 月期の実質 GDP 成長率（1 次速報）は前期比＋0.5%（年率換算＋2.1%）と 2 四半期連続のプ
ラス成長となった。トランプ関税の影響で落ち込んでいた米国向け輸出の持ち直し、個人消費や設備投資といっ
た内需の増加が押し上げに寄与した。4～6 月期はイラン情勢緊迫化が下押し要因となり、景気の減速感は強ま
るものの、政府による原油備蓄放出や物価高対策の補助金が下支えとなることで、腰折れは回避できよう。

実質 GDP 成長率

実質 GDP 成長率の推移

（注）シャドー部分は内閣府による景気後退期 
（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」

-12
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25
（前年比、％）
（年、四半期）
-9
-6
-3
0
3
6
81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25
（前期比、％）
（年、四半期）
-3.0
-2.5
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
21 22 23 24 25 26
個人消費 設備投資 政府支出 純輸出
在庫 住宅 実質GDP成長率
（年、四半期）
（前期比、％）

### Page 6

3 月調査の日銀短観における大企業の業況判断 DI は、前回調査から製造業は改善、非製造業は横ばいとな
った。製造業では素材業種は横ばいだった一方、生産用機械などの加工業種は改善した。非製造業では宿泊・
飲食サービスなどが改善した一方、運輸・郵便などは悪化した。先行きは、イラン情勢の緊迫化が需要の減少や
コスト増加、供給制約になるとの懸念が強まっていることから、製造業、非製造業ともに悪化の見通しとなった。

日銀短観（業況判断 DI）

（注１）シャドー部分は内閣府による景気後退期 
（注２）2004年、07年、10年、15年、18年、22年、24年、26年の各 3月調査時点で
調査対象企業の見直しが行われたため、前後の系列にギャップがある。 
（出所）日本銀行「全国企業短期経済観測調査」

1～3 月期の企業業績（金融業・保険業を除く）は、売上高が前期比＋1.3%と 2 四半期連続で増加し、利益率
も前期から改善したため、経常利益は同＋4.1%と 4 四半期連続で増加した（業種別の経常利益は、製造業では
前期比＋11.2%、非製造業では同－0.2%）。今後も国内需要の持ち直しが下支えとなるものの、イラン情勢緊迫
化を受けたコスト増や原材料不足といった悪影響の表面化により、一時的に弱い動きとなる可能性がある。

企業利益（経常利益）

（注）金融業、保険業を除く 
（出所）財務省「法人企業統計季報」 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
（兆円、季節調整値）
（年、四半期）
-70
-60
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
大企業製造業
大企業非製造業
中小企業製造業
中小企業非製造業
（年、四半期）
（％ポイント） 予測

### Page 7

3 月の CI 一致指数は前月差＋0.2 ポイントと 2 カ月ぶりに上昇した。発表済み 9 系列のうち 4 系列がプラスに
寄与した。中でも輸出数量指数や鉱工業用生産財出荷指数のプラス寄与が大きかった。4 月の CI 一致指数は
投資財出荷指数（除輸送機械）や商業販売額（卸売業）のプラス寄与が大きく、2 カ月連続で上昇すると見込まれ
る。基調判断は「上方への局面変化」が維持されよう。

景気動向指数（CI・DI）

（出所）内閣府「景気動向指数」

4 月の景気ウォッチャー調査の現状判断 DI（季節調整値）は 40.8 と 2 カ月連続で低下した（前月差－1.4 ポ
イント）。家計動向関連は、原油高を背景とした消費者の節約志向の高まりを受けて悪化した。企業動向関連は、
イラン情勢の緊迫化に伴うコスト増加や供給制約懸念を受けて製造業・非製造業ともに悪化した。先行き判断 DI
（季節調整値）は 3 カ月ぶりに上昇したものの、引き続きイラン問題の長期化が懸念されている。

景気ウォッチャー調査（季節調整値）

（注）景気の現状判断 DI は、家計動向関連業種、企業動向関連業種、雇用関連業種の景気ウォッチャ
ーによる景気判断から算出される。50 を上回ると「景気が良くなっている」、50 を下回ると「景気が
悪くなっている」という判断が優勢であることを示す。 
（出所）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」 
0
25
50
75
100
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
21 22 23 24 25 26
CI･先行指数(左目盛) CI･一致指数(左目盛)
DI･先行指数(右目盛) DI･一致指数(右目盛)
（年、月次）
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
21 22 23 24 25 26
景気の現状判断DI
景気の先行き判断DI
（年、月次）

### Page 8

2. 生産 ～横ばい 
4 月の鉱工業生産は前月比＋0.8%と 3 カ月ぶりに増加した。自動車工業や無機・有機化学工業などは減少し
たものの、汎用・業務用機械工業や電気・情報通信機械工業などが増加し、全体を押し上げた。製造業の生産
活動は均してみれば横ばいとなっている。製造工業生産予測調査では 5 月は前月比＋5.1%（同調査をもとにし
た経済産業省の予測は同＋2.1%）、6 月は同－0.4%の計画だがイラン情勢緊迫化により下振れる可能性がある。

鉱工業生産

（注）「×」は製造工業生産予測調査結果から計算したもの、「▲」は経済産業省による予測値から計算したもの 
（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」

（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」

90
95
100
105
110
21 22 23 24 25 26
生産 出荷 在庫
（年、月次）
（2020年＝100、季節調整値）
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
22 23 24 25 26
鉄鋼業
化学工業（除 医薬品）
生産用機械工業
（2020年＝100）
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
22 23 24 25 26
自動車工業
電子部品・デバイス
電気・情報通信機械工業
（2020年＝100）
（年、月次）

### Page 9

4 月の鉱工業出荷は、電子部品・デバイス工業や電気・情報通信機械工業などを中心に前月比＋1.5%と 3 カ
月ぶりに増加した。また、前年比では汎用・業務用機械工業などを中心に＋2.0%と 2 カ月連続で増加した。在庫
は電気・情報通信機械工業や電子部品・デバイス工業などを中心に前月比－0.2%と 2 カ月連続で減少した。ま
た、前年比では電気・情報通信機械工業や無機・有機化学工業などを中心に－4.9%と 15 カ月連続で減少した。

在庫循環図（左）および同概念図（右）

（注）1.数値は四半期・原数値の前年比、在庫は期末値  
  2.26 年 2Q データは出荷、在庫共に 4 月の前年比 
 （出所）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」

3 月の第 3 次産業活動指数は、前月比－0.2%と 2 カ月連続で低下した。広義対個人サービスは低下した一
方、広義対事業所サービスは上昇した。具体的には、情報通信業などは上昇したものの、生活娯楽関連サービ
スや卸売業などが低下し、全体を押し下げた。均してみれば、緩やかに上昇している。今後も国内景気の回復に
併せて上昇が続くと期待されるが、物価高やイラン情勢緊迫化を受けて下振れるリスクもある。

第 3 次産業活動指数

（出所）経済産業省「第 3 次産業活動指数」 
45度線
意図せざる
在庫減少局面
在庫積増し
局面
意図せざる
在庫増加局面
在庫調整
局面
（前年比、％）
在
庫（
縦
軸）
出荷（横軸） （前年比、％）
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-20 -15 -10 -5 0 5 10 15 20
在
庫（
縦
軸）
出荷（横軸）
（前年比、％）
（前年比、％）
21年1Q
23年1Q
22年1Q
24年1Q
26年2Q
25年1Q
96
98
100
102
104
106
108
21 22 23 24 25 26
（2019―2020年=100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）

### Page 10

3. 雇用 ～改善している 
4 月の完全失業率は 2.5%に低下した。失業者（前月差－7 万人）が減少する一方、就業者（同＋61 万人）、
雇用者（同＋63 万人）とも順調に増加し、いずれも過去最高を更新した。労働需給はタイトな状態にあり、労働市
場への参加者が増加する中で多くの人が職に就いている。人件費の増加などから中小企業を中心に採用が慎
重化している可能性があるが、それでも人手不足感は依然として強く、雇用情勢は良好な状態を維持しよう。

失業率と就業者数

（出所）総務省「労働力調査」

4 月の有効求人倍率は前月と同水準の 1.18 倍となった。有効求職者数（前月比＋0.8%）、有効求人数（同 
＋0.4%）ともに小幅に増加した。新規求人倍率は前月差－0.04 ポイントの 2.11 倍に低下した。新規求人数（前
月比＋1.9%）は堅調に増加したが、新規求職申込件数（同＋4.0%）の増加幅の方が大きかった。人手不足感は
強いが、賃金上昇を背景に企業は採用に慎重になっている可能性があり、有効求人倍率は低下基調が続こう。

有効求人倍率と新規求人倍率

（出所）厚生労働省「一般職業紹介状況」

2.3
2.4
2.5
2.6
2.7
2.8
2.9
3.0
3.1
3.2
3.3
6650
6675
6700
6725
6750
6775
6800
6825
6850
6875
6900
21 22 23 24 25 26
就業者数（左目盛） 完全失業率（右目盛）
（年、月次）
（％、季節調整値）（万人、季節調整値）
1.7
1.8
1.9
2.0
2.1
2.2
2.3
2.4
2.5
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
21 22 23 24 25 26
有効求人倍率（左目盛）
新規求人倍率（右目盛）
（倍、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
（倍、季節調整値）

### Page 11

4. 賃金 ～増加している 
3 月の一人当たり現金給与総額は前年比＋3.1%と増加が続いている。特別給与（同－0.7%）は減少したが、
所定内給与（同＋3.4%）、所定外給与（同＋3.1%）とも堅調に増加した。また、足元の物価上昇率鈍化もあり、実
質賃金は同＋1.4%と 3 カ月連続でプラスとなった。2026 年春闘でも高い賃上げ率が達成されたと見込まれ、今
後も賃金の増加基調が維持されるうえ、目先は物価安定が予想され、実質賃金はプラスでの推移が続こう。

現金給与総額と所定内・所定外給与

（注）現金給与総額、所定内給与は名目賃金指数から、所定外給与は月間現金給与額から計算  
（出所）厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」

5. 個人消費 ～緩やかに持ち直している 
3 月の二人以上世帯の実質消費支出は前月比－1.3%と減少した。また日本の世帯全体の消費動向を表す 3
月の総消費動向指数（実質）は前月比＋0.0%とほぼ横ばいだった。基調としては、個人消費は緩やかに持ち直
している。消費者態度指数からみた消費者マインドはイラン情勢の緊迫化を受けて悪化しているものの、 実質雇
用者報酬は引き続き緩やかな増加を続けており、個人消費は当面、緩やかな持ち直しが続こう。

実質消費支出（二人以上の世帯）と総消費動向指数（実質）

（出所）総務省「家計調査報告」、総務省「消費動向指数（CTI）」 
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-3.0
-1.5
0.0
1.5
3.0
4.5
6.0
21 22 23 24 25 26
現金給与総額（一人当たり）（左目盛）
所定内給与（左目盛）
所定外給与（右目盛）
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）
（前年比、％）
95
100
105
110
21 22 23 24 25 26
総消費動向指数（実質） 実質消費支出（二人以上の世帯)
（2020年＝100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
四半期平均（総消費動向指数（実質））

### Page 12

4 月の商業販売額（小売業）は前年比＋2.1%と 2 カ月連続で増加した。内訳をみると、自動車小売業や機械
器具小売業、各種商品小売業、医薬品・化粧品小売業、飲食料品小売業などは増加した一方、燃料小売業、織 
物・衣服・身の回り品小売業、無店舗小売業は減少した。季節調整値は前月比＋1.3%と 2 カ月連続で増加した。 
5 月の新車販売台数（乗用車、除く軽自動車）は前年比＋5.3%と増加した。

個人消費関連指標

（出所）日本自動車販売協会連合会「自動車国内販売」、経済産業省「商業動態統計」

5 月の消費者態度指数（二人以上の世帯、季節調整値）は前月差＋1.4 ポイントと 3 カ月ぶりに上昇した。内
訳をみると、「暮らし向き」、「耐久消費財の買い時判断」、「雇用環境」、「収入の増え方」のいずれの意識指標も
上昇しており、特に「暮らし向き」のプラス寄与が大きかった。消費者態度指数からみた消費者マインドは、均して
みると悪化しており、節約志向の高まりが個人消費を下押しする可能性がある。

消費者態度指数

（注）消費者態度指数は、「暮らし向き」、「収入の増え方」、「雇用環境」、「耐久消費財の買い時判断」の 4 つの意識指標で
算出される。 
（出所）内閣府「消費動向調査」 
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
21 22 23 24 25 26
（年、月次）
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
21 22 23 24 25 26
新車販売台数（乗用車＜除く軽＞）（左目盛）
商業販売額、小売業（右目盛）
（前年比、％） （前年比、％）
（年、月次）

### Page 13

6. 住宅投資 ～弱含んでいる 
1～3 月期の住宅投資（実質 GDP ベース、1 次速報）は前期比＋0.5%と 2 四半期連続で増加した。4 月の住
宅着工戸数は前年比＋11.4%と 6 カ月ぶりに増加した。季節調整済年率換算値では72.4 万戸（前月比－1.7%）
と 4 カ月連続で減少した。均してみれば弱含んでいる。今後は金利上昇やイラン情勢緊迫化による建設資材不
足が下押し要因になるとみられ、下振れる可能性がある。

住宅着工

（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」

7. 設備投資 ～緩やかに持ち直している 
1～3 月期の設備投資（実質 GDP ベース、1 次速報）は前期比＋0.3%と 2 四半期連続で増加した。また同期
の法人企業統計の名目設備投資（含むソフトウェア）は、前期比－2.0%と 2 四半期ぶりに減少した。設備投資に
先行する機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）は、3 月は前月比－9.4%と 2 カ月ぶりに減少した。均してみれば機
械受注には持ち直しの動きがみられ、受注残もあることから、今後も設備投資は緩やかな持ち直しが続こう。

機械受注と設備投資

（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」、「機械受注統計」 
 400
 600
 800
 1,000
 1,200
-40
-20
0
20
40
21 22 23 24 25 26
持家 貸家
分譲（戸建＋マンション） 新設住宅着工(左目盛)
着工戸数（季節調整値、年率換算）
（年、月次）
（千戸）（前年比、％）
新設住宅着工戸数
（季節調整済年率換算）（右目盛）
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
7000
8000
9000
10000
11000
12000
13000
21 22 23 24 25 26
（年、四半期・月次）
四半期平均
機械受注（船舶・電力を除く民需）（左目盛）
（兆円、季節調整値）
設備投資（実質、右目盛）
（億円、季節調整値）
内閣府見通し

### Page 14

8. 公共投資 ～横ばい圏で推移している 
1～3 月期の公共投資（実質 GDP ベース、1 次速報）は、前期比＋1.4%と 3 四半期ぶりに増加したが、均して
みれば横ばい圏で推移している。公共投資の先行指標である公共工事請負額は、4月は国（含む独立行政法人）
と地方いずれからも増加し、全体では前年比＋4.7%と 5 カ月連続で増加した。今後も公共投資デフレーターの
上昇が続くと見込まれることから、公共投資は横ばい圏で推移する可能性がある。

公共投資と公共工事請負額

（注）国は独立行政法人などを含む、地方は都道府県、市区町村、地方公社の合計 
（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」、北海道建設業信用保証、東日本建設業保証、 
    西日本建設業保証「公共工事前払金保証統計」

9. 輸出入・国際収支 ～輸出は横ばい、輸入は弱含み 
4 月の実質輸出は前月比－2.8%と 2 カ月ぶりに減少した。均してみれば、横ばいとなっている。今後はイラン
情勢緊迫化による悪影響が中東向けを中心に拡大する一方、好調な AI 関連需要が下支えとなることから一進
一退が続くと見込まれる。また、4 月の実質輸入は前月比－3.9%と 2 カ月連続で減少した。均してみれば、弱含
んでいる。今後は中東からの輸入急減により下振れる可能性がある。

輸出

（出所）日本銀行「実質輸出入の動向」、内閣府

22
23
24
25
26
27
28
29
30
31
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
21 22 23 24 25 26
地方（左目盛） 国（左目盛） 合計（左目盛）
実質公的固定資本形成（右目盛）
（兆円）（前年比、％）
（年、四半期・月次）
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
実質輸出 輸出数量
（2020年=100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）

### Page 15

輸入

（出所）日本銀行「実質輸出入の動向」、内閣府

4 月の実質輸出を地域別にみると、EU 向け（前月比＋3.9%）は増加した一方、米国向け（同－3.6%）、中国
向け（同－5.7%）、NIEs・ASEAN など向け（同－3.8%）、中東などのその他向け（同－0.4%）は減少した。また
財別にみると、中間財（前月比－5.2%）、自動車関連（同－3.1%）、資本財（同－0.8%）、情報関連（同－0.0%）、
その他（同－4.9%）、いずれも減少した。

地域別実質輸出

（出所）日本銀行「実質輸出入の動向」

90
95
100
105
110
115
120
21 22 23 24 25 26
実質輸入 輸入数量
（2020年=100、季節調整値）
（年、月次）
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 EU 中国
（年、月次）
（2020年=100、季節調整値）

### Page 16

3 月の経常収支（季節調整値）は 3 兆 9,006 億円の黒字となった。サービス収支の赤字幅は拡大したものの、
貿易収支が主に輸入の減少により黒字に転じたこと、第一次所得収支の黒字幅が拡大したこと、第二次所得収
支の赤字幅が縮小したことから、経常収支の黒字幅は前月から 1 兆 1,991 億円拡大した。4 月は所得収支が悪
化することで、経常収支の黒字幅は縮小する可能性がある。

経常収支

（注）経常収支＝貿易収支＋サービス収支＋第一次所得収支＋第二次所得収支 
（出所）財務省「国際収支状況」

輸出入（国際収支ベース）

（出所）財務省「国際収支状況」

-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
21 22 23 24 25 26
貿易収支 サービス収支 第一次所得収支
第二次所得収支 経常収支
（年、月次）
（兆円、季節調整値）
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
21 22 23 24 25 26
輸出 輸入
（兆円）
（年、月次）

### Page 17

10. 物価 ～企業物価は急上昇、消費者物価は緩やかに上昇 
4 月の国内企業物価は前年比＋4.9%と、石油・石炭製品、化学製品などを中心に上昇率が拡大している。一
方、4 月の消費者物価は、「生鮮食品を除く総合」が前年比＋1.4 %、「生鮮食品及びエネルギーを除く総合」が
同＋1.9%と、緩やかな上昇が続いている。政府による種々の物価高対策により当面は安定した推移が見込まれ
るものの、原油価格の上昇が企業のコスト転嫁を通じて物価の上振れにつながる可能性がある。

国内物価

（出所）日本銀行「企業物価指数」、総務省「消費者物価指数月報」

11. 世界景気 ～米国は底堅いが、欧州、中国は弱い 
世界景気は米国で底堅いが、欧州、中国は弱い動きが続いている。1～3 月期の実質 GDP 成長率は、米国
は前期比年率＋1.6%に加速した。個人消費は底堅く推移し、設備投資はおよそ 3 年ぶりの高い伸びを記録した。
一方、欧州は同＋0.6%に鈍化した。中国は外需の好調により前年比＋5.0%に加速した。先行き、米国は底堅い
ものの欧州、中国は弱い動きが続く見込みである。

米国・欧州・中国の実質 GDP 成長率

（出所）米商務省、欧州連合統計局、中国国家統計局 
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
16
20
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
21 22 23 24 25 26
消費者物価（生鮮食品除く総合）全国（左目盛）
〃（生鮮食品及びｴﾈﾙｷﾞ除く総合）全国（左目盛）
〃（生鮮食品除く総合）東京都区部（左目盛）
国内企業物価（右目盛）
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）
（前年比、％）
-4
0
4
8
12
16
20
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
21 22 23 24 25 26
米国（左目盛） ユーロ圏（左目盛） 中国（右目盛）
（年、四半期）
（前期比年率、％） （前年比、％）

### Page 18

12. 世界の物価 ～原油価格上昇の影響が懸念材料 
世界の消費者物価上昇率は加速した。4 月の上昇率は米国が前年比＋3.8%とおよそ 3 年ぶりの水準に加速
した。ユーロ圏も 4 月に同＋3.0%とおよそ 2 年半ぶりの高い上昇率となった。中国も 4 月に同＋1.2%と食料品
価格の上昇などにより 7 カ月連続で上昇した。先行き、原油価格上昇の影響により、世界の消費者物価上昇率
は一段と上昇する見込みである。

米国・欧州・中国の消費者物価上昇率

（出所）米労働省、欧州連合統計局、中国国家統計局 
13. 原油 ～一進一退 
5 月のブレント原油は一進一退となった。米国とイランの戦闘終結に向けた覚書で合意に近づいているとされ
つつも、両国の主張の隔たりも伝えられたことで市場の思惑が交錯し、不安定な推移となった。月末にかけて、停
戦を 60 日間延長するなどとした覚書で暫定合意したとされて、原油相場はやや軟化した。もっとも、イラン情勢を
巡って、依然として先行き不透明感が強く、原油相場は予見しづらい状況が続いている。

原油価格の推移

（注）月中平均 
（出所）NYMEX, ICE 
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
21 22 23 24 25 26
米国 ユーロ圏 中国
（年、月次）
（前年比、％）
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
3月 4月 5月 6月
WTI原油（右目盛）
北海ブレント原油（右目盛）
（月、日次）
（ドル/バレル）【日次】
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
WTI原油（期近物）
北海ブレント原油（期近物）
（ドル/バレル）
（年、月次）
【月次】

### Page 19

14. 国内金利～急上昇後やや低下 
5 月の長期金利（新発 10 年国債利回り）は急上昇後にやや低下。原油価格高止まりによるインフレ懸念、
2026 年度補正予算の編成による財政悪化懸念、米金利上昇などを受けて、中旬に一時 2.8%と約 29 年半ぶり
の水準に上昇したが、高市首相が補正予算は国債発行総額は増やさずに対応すると強調したことで過度な懸念
が和らぎ、月末にかけてやや低下した。今後もインフレや財政悪化懸念で金利上昇圧力がかかりやすい。

国内金利

（注）3 カ月金利は 2021 年 4 月までは TIBOR、それ以降は TORF 
（出所）日本銀行、QUICK

15. 米国金利 ～上昇後、低下 
5 月の米長期金利は上昇後に低下。原油価格の高止まりを背景としたインフレ懸念の強まりや、米連邦準備制
度理事会（FRB）による利上げ観測により、中旬に 4.6%台後半と 25 年 1 月以来の高さまで上昇したが、トランプ
大統領による戦闘終結協議の合意が近いとの SNS 投稿や、協議進展を示唆する各種報道から戦闘終結への
期待が高まり、月末にかけて低下に転じた。インフレ懸念は根強く、金利上昇圧力がかかりやすい展開が続こう。

米国金利

（出所）日本経済新聞、FRB（米連邦準備制度理事会） 
 0.50
 1.00
 1.50
 2.00
 2.50
 3.00
3月 4月 5月 6月
（月、日次）
【日次】
（％）
TORF3ヵ月（右目盛）
新発10年物国債利回り（右目盛）
-0.50
0.00
0.50
1.00
1.50
2.00
2.50
3.00
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
無担保コール翌日物
TORF3ヵ月
新発10年物国債利回り
（年、月次）
（％）【月次】
0.00
1.00
2.00
3.00
4.00
5.00
6.00
7.00
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
米国債10年物利回り
FF金利
（年、月次）
（％）【月次】
4.00
4.10
4.20
4.30
4.40
4.50
4.60
4.70
3月 4月 5月 6月
米国債10年物利回り
（月、日次）
（％）

### Page 20

16. 国内株価～急騰 
5 月の日経平均株価は急騰。連休明けの 7 日に米イラン戦闘の早期終結観測で急騰し、1 日の上げ幅は過
去最大の 3,320.72 円を記録し、その後も好決算を受けて高値圏で推移した。金利上昇により中旬にかけて反落
したが、米株価上昇、世界的な AI ブームを背景とした値がさの半導体関連株の急騰、米イランの早期戦闘終結
期待で順調に上昇し、月末に最高値を更新した。イラン情勢への楽観的観測から高値圏での推移が続こう。

日本株価

（出所）日本経済新聞

17. 米国株価～上昇 
5 月の米国株価は上昇。イラン情勢への楽観的観測、米中首脳会談での貿易分野の合意好感から中旬にか
けて上昇後、イラン情勢への警戒感、インフレ懸念や FRB による利上げ観測の高まりが重しとなり、狭いレンジで
推移したが、米イランの早期の戦闘終結期待、AI ブームを背景とした半導体関連銘柄への買いの集中などから、
月末に最高値を更新した。イラン情勢への楽観的観測から高値圏での推移が続こう。

米国株価

（出所）Dow Jones, NASDAQ 
0
400
800
1,200
1,600
2,000
2,400
2,800
3,200
3,600
4,000
4,400
4,800
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
40,000
45,000
50,000
55,000
60,000
65,000
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
日経平均株価（左目盛）
東証株価指数（TOPIX）（右目盛）
（円）
（年、月次）
【月次】 （ポイント）
50,000
55,000
60,000
65,000
70,000
3月 4月 5月 6月
日経平均株価（右目盛）
（月、日次）
（円）【日次】
45,000
46,000
47,000
48,000
49,000
50,000
51,000
52,000
3月 4月 5月 6月
（月、日次）
（ドル）【日次】
ダウ（右目盛）
0
3,000
6,000
9,000
12,000
15,000
18,000
21,000
24,000
27,000
30,000
5,000
10,000
15,000
20,000
25,000
30,000
35,000
40,000
45,000
50,000
55,000
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
ダウ（左目盛）
ナスダック（右目盛）
（ドル）
（年、月次）
【月次】 （ポイント）

### Page 21

18. 為替～円は下落 
5 月の円は対ドルで下落。円は、連休中の海外市場において政府・日銀によって大規模な円買い介入が実施
されたことで、月初は対ドルで 155 円台まで上昇する局面もあったが、連休明け後は米イランの戦闘終結に向け
た協議の難航、原油先物価格の上昇、米長期金利上昇などを受けてじり安となった。米中首脳会談もイラン情勢
進展のきっかけにはならなかったこと、高市政権が補正予算案の編成を検討していると伝えられたことで日本の
財政悪化懸念が広がったことなどから、円は 18 日には 159 円台まで下落した。もっとも、160 円が近づくと介入
警戒感が高まり、円は徐々に下げ渋った。円買い介入への警戒感が円の下支え材料であるが、円に積極的な買
い材料が見当たらず、イラン情勢の緊張状態が長期化すれば再び下落圧力が増す可能性がある。

ドル・円相場 （1）

（出所）日本銀行 
為替相場 （2）

（出所）日本銀行

70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
ドル・円相場
（年、月次）
（円/ドル）【月次】
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
ユーロ・円相場（左目盛）
ユーロ・ドル相場（右目盛）
（年、月次）
（円/ユーロ） （ドル/ユーロ）
↑ドル安・ユーロ高
円安・ユーロ高
【月次】
1.14
1.15
1.16
1.17
1.18
1.19
3月 4月 5月 6月
ユーロ・ドル相場（右目盛）
（月、日次）
↑ドル安・ユーロ高
（ドル/ユーロ）【日次】
156
157
158
159
160
161
3月 4月 5月 6月
ドル・円相場（右目盛）
（月、日次）
（円/ドル）【日次】
↑円安・ドル高

### Page 22

19. 金融～マネーストックは緩やかに増加し、銀行貸出残高は堅調に増加 
日銀は 2025 年 12 月の金融政策決定会合において、無担保コールレート（オーバーナイト物）の目標水準を
0.75%に引き上げた（今次利上げ局面では 2024 年 7 月、2025 年 1 月に続き 3 回目）。また、実質金利が極め
て低い水準にあるため、今後も経済・物価情勢の改善に応じて政策金利を引き上げ、金融緩和の度合いを調整
していくとの方針を示しているが、イラン情勢の悪化後の原油価格急騰による物価上昇懸念の一方で、景気の下
振れリスクもあるとして、4 月 28 日の金融政策決定会合での利上げは見送られた。金融を巡る動きとしては、4 月
マネーストック（M2）は前年比＋2.3%と緩やかに増加している一方、4 月銀行貸出残高は同＋6.0%と堅調に増
加している。

マネーストックと銀行貸出

（注）マネーストック（M2,M3）の伸び率は 04 年 3 月まで 
   各々 M2+CD、M3+CD－金銭信託 
（出所）日本銀行「マネーストック」、「貸出・預金動向」

-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
マネーストック（M2）平残
マネーストック（M3）平残
貸出平残（銀行計）
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）

### Page 23

景気予報ガイド 
【今月の景気判断】 
○レポート発表時における景気判断。【今月の景気予報】における各項目の現況をもとに総合的に判断。

【今月の景気予報】 
○3 カ月前～・・・3 カ月前～現況の「方向感」を、①改善、②横ばい、③悪化の 3 段階に分類。 
○現況 ・・・・・各項目の現在の「水準」を、①晴れ、②曇り、③雨の 3 段階に分類。 
○～3 カ月後・・・現況～3 カ月後の「方向感」を、①改善、②横ばい、③悪化の 3 段階に分類。

（注）現況をあらわす天気マークはあくまで「水準」を判断したもので、3 カ月前～の矢印が①改善、③悪化の場合で
も、必ずしも天気マークが変更されるわけではない。

【当面の注目材料】 
○各項目の現況、見通しをふまえて、今後景気を判断する上で注目すべきポイント。

【各項目のヘッドライン】 
○全 19 項目について、毎月簡単なヘッドラインを記載、当月と前月のものを対比して示している。 
○右端は各項目のグラフが掲載されているページ数。

【前月からの変更点】 
○景気予報において判断の変更があった場合に変更理由を記載。 
○ヘッドラインに記載されている市場データ（原油・金利・株価・為替）については記載せず。

【主要経済指標の推移】 
○当レポートで用いられている経済指標の半年間の動きを掲載。

---
## Document 500: 华尔街激辩“Token经济学”：AI账单失控了吗？

Source PDF: all report pdf/华尔街激辩“Token经济学”：AI账单失控了吗？.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-06-11
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Token 价格指数连跌 7 天，引发华尔街对 AI 账单失控的焦虑。摩根⼤通称这不过是 “ 最⼩减速
带 ” ， Citadel 却直指 AI 落地核⼼约束已从 “ 模型最强 ” 转向 “ 成本与稀缺性 ” ，⽤⼾正加速向廉
价模型迁移。这究竟是 AI 需求⻅顶还是⽤⼾疯狂涌向低价模型？答案将直接重写英伟达、
云⼚商乃⾄整条 AI 硬件链的估值逻辑。
摘要：
⼀张 Token 指数图，点燃了 AI 增⻓和账单失控的焦虑。
这张图是 Silicon Data 统计的 LLM Token ⽀出指数。6 ⽉ 11 ⽇，它已连跌 7 天，创下今年 1 ⽉以来
最⻓连跌纪录；过去 12 天⾥，有 11 天是下跌的。
这个指数衡量的是全市场每使⽤ 100 万枚 Token 平均⽀付多少钱 —— 可以理解为市场愿意为 AI“ 付
多少钱 ” 的晴⾬表。它⾃去年 12 ⽉以来翻了⼀番以上，并在 2026 年 5 ⽉前持续攀升，但近期急转
直下。
它触动的不是⼀个⼩指标，⽽是整条 AI 交易链：如果企业开始控制 Token 账单， GPU 、

DRAM 、数据中⼼和云⼚商的资本开⽀预期，会不会被重新定价？
美国宏观策略师 Andreas Steno Larsen 在 6 ⽉ 9 ⽇直接把这张图称为 “ 当前全市场最应关注的⼀张
图 ” ，并警告：如果 Token 定价持续⾛弱，本轮周期中从内存到更⼴泛的硬件及数据中⼼交易可
能宣告结束。
这句话戳到了投资者最敏感的神经。但华尔街的看法更为复杂和多⾯，Token 定价⾛弱可能并⾮
单纯的 AI 需求⻅顶。
指数下跌是不是需求⻅顶？这张图到底表达了什么
这张图不能简单读成 “AI 没⼈⽤了 ” 。
它不是 Token 总需求指数，也不是 Token 总⽀出⾦额。它量的是每百万 Token 的加权平均价格
—— 也就是说，它反映的是⽤⼾在⽤什么价位的模型。
算⼀笔简单的账就清楚了：假设前沿模型 10 美元 / 百万 Token ，便宜模型 1 美元。某个⽉ 100 单位
⽤量全跑在前沿模型上，指数是 10 。下个⽉需求翻倍到 200 ，但新增的全是便宜模型跑的批量任
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

务，指数直接掉到 5.5 。
需求翻倍，指数腰斩。
这意味着，指数下跌有两种完全不同的解释：⼀是需求真的在萎缩；⼆是⽤量在爆炸，但⽤⼾
在主动向低价模型迁移。
这正是当前争论的核⼼：指数下跌，到底是需求⻅顶，还是⽤量结构下沉？
Citadel 证券发布《 Tokenomics 》报告认为， AI 落地的核⼼约束已从 " 模型能⼒ " 转向 " 成本与算⼒
稀缺 " ，⽤⼾正加速向廉价模型迁移。
摩根⼤通 TMT 分析师 Mark Schilsky 则在 6 ⽉ 11 ⽇把近期市场讨论概括为：“AI 账单失控了。 ”同
时，该⾏认为当前的 Token ⽀出乱象只是 “ 通往更⾼⽀出的最⼩减速带 ” 。
Citadel 的判断： AI 的 “ 性价⽐与稀缺性 ” 变得更重要了
Citadel 证券在其最新发布的《 Tokenomics 》报告中，给出了⼀个明确的⽅向性判断。
“ 采⽤趋势越来越不取决于前沿模型的功能，⽽更多取决于价格 ……Token 指数的近期下跌可能
反映了这种向更便宜模型转变的部分迹象。 ”

### Page 3

核⼼论点是：AI 落地的核⼼约束，已经从 " 模型能⼒ " 转向了 " 成本与稀缺性 " 。
Citadel 的表述是： “ 技术落地的核⼼不再是前沿模型理论上能做什么，⽽是规模化实现 AI 运⾏所
需的投⼊品的价格与稀缺性。算⼒、电⼒、冷却、内存带宽和推理预算，都是真实存在且具有
约束⼒的限制条件。 ”
报告援引经济学基本原理：价格有三⼤功能 —— 传递稀缺信号、催⽣替代动⼒、将资源配置到
价值最⾼的⽤途。这三条在 AI 领域正在同时发⽣。
结论是：未来最好的回报，不会来⾃那些构建最强模型的公司，⽽是来⾃那些降低 AI 成本、提
升效率的公司。
同时，推理密集型前沿 AI 不会消失，但会越来越集中在少数有能⼒承担成本的⼤型企业⼿中。对
整个经济体⽽⾔，在物理约束缓解之前，更简单的模型可能是更具⽣产⼒的路径。

### Page 4

低价模型正在改变账单结构
⾼盛 One-Delta 部⻔负责⼈ Rich Privorotsky 曾提到， DeepSeek 下调 75% 的定价，⼩⽶ MiMo 接
近 99% 的降价幅度，基础设施瓶颈缓解正在触发价格战。
Coinbase ⾸席执⾏官 Brian Armstrong 预测，未来 12 ⾄ 18 个⽉， 80% 的 AI ⼯作负载会迁移到成本
低 99% 的模型上，只有 20% 需要极致智能的任务会继续留在前沿模型上。
Hugging Face ⾸席执⾏官 Clement Delangue 援引斯坦福⼤学数据称，本地模型在真实世界查询
中的准确率已升⾄ 71.3% ，且成本极低。
这与 Citadel 的判断相接近：前沿 AI 不会消失，但可能集中在少数能承受算⼒成本、具备研究深
度、且能把⾼难度问题转化为规模化收益的企业⼿中。
对更⼴泛的经济体⽽⾔，在物理约束缓解前，更简单的模型可能是更便宜的⽣产⼒⼯具。
也就是说， AI 使⽤可能⾛向分层。
⾼价值、复杂任务继续使⽤前沿模型。⽇常任务、批量任务、低回报实验，则转向便宜模型或

本地模型。
摩根⼤通：优化账单，不等于 AI 需求⻅顶
摩根⼤通的判断则是：现在的账单焦虑，可能只是 AI 需求早期阶段的⼩减速带；⼀年后 Token ⽀
出可能明显更⾼。
如果每百万 Token 平均成本下降，但美国公司 AI 付费渗透率仍在上升，总 Token ⽤量在算术上就
必须⼤幅增加。也就是说，“ 单位价格下降 ” 和 “ 总使⽤量爆发 ” 可以同时发⽣。
企业内部的情况也类似。已经⼤量使⽤ AI 的公司会优化 Token 预算，减少浪费；还没完全上⻋的
公司，会因为模型更便宜、更容易部署⽽开始使⽤。
智能体 AI 还会放⼤ Token 消耗。⼀个任务过去只需⼀次调⽤，现在可能被拆成多步执⾏、反复规
划、调⽤⼯具、读取上下⽂，单任务 Token 消耗会明显增加。素材中提到，有中⼩企业案例显
⽰，业务 agent 化后，每个任务的 Token 消耗变成原来的 3.5 倍。
所以，市场争论的关键不是 “Token 会不会继续增⻓ ” ，⽽是 “ 增⻓的单位经济模型是否健康 ” 。

### Page 5

当下，企业已经开始管账单
企业端最先暴露的问题，不是 AI 没⼈⽤，⽽是⽤得太随意。
Axios 援引⼀位 AI 顾问的消息称，其⼀家企业客⼾近期单⽉在 Claude 上花费 5 亿美元，原因只是
没有对员⼯使⽤量设置上限。
在企业内部，把 AI 使⽤量当作考核指标，也开始产⽣副作⽤。
此前美国部分公司内部把 AI 使⽤量当成排名或考核指标，结果诱发了 “Tokenmaxxing” ：员⼯为
了刷⾼使⽤量，让 AI 执⾏低价值任务。
亚⻢逊旗下开发者平台 Kiro 曾设有内部排⾏榜 “Kirorank” 。亚⻢逊⾼级副总裁 Dave Treadwell 承
认，员⼯为了刷榜让 AI 做⽆意义任务，推⾼运营成本。他随后要求员⼯ “ 不要为了⽤ AI ⽽⽤ AI” ，
相关测试版仪表盘被下线。
亚⻢逊后续改⽤ “ 归⼀化部署 ” 指标，追踪 AI ⽣成代码的实际价值，⽽不是单纯追踪 Token 消耗。
Meta 内部也出现过类似拉⾼ Token 消耗量以占据排名优势的情况。
这类调整的含义很明确：企业不是停⽤ AI ，⽽是开始区分 “ 有效 Token” 和 “ ⽆效 Token” 。

摩根⼤通提到， Cloudflare 推出 AI Gateway 这类产品，⽬的就是帮助企业控制 Token 预算。
OpenRouter 等⼯具也⻓期存在，本质都是在不同模型之间做路由和成本管理。
定价端也在变化。
6 ⽉ 1 ⽇，GitHub Copilot 正式从按请求收费切换为按 Token ⽤量计费。Reddit 社区有⽤⼾表
⽰，其⽉度费⽤预计将从不到 45 美元升⾄超过 847 美元。
GitHub ⾸席产品官 Mario Rodriguez 此前称，随着智能体 AI 兴起，旧有定价模式已不可持续。
Gartner 分析师 Arun Chandrasekaran 在接受 Business Insider 采访时称，随着⾼级推理模型推⾼
算⼒消耗，更多企业将转向按⽤量计费。
这意味着，过去靠固定订阅或补贴隐藏的成本，正在被摆到企业财务表⾯。
多空分歧：硬件交易的逻辑还成⽴吗？
这场争论的终极问题，是 AI 基础设施的投资逻辑是否还成⽴。
多头的依据是：⾼盛的 Jim Schneider 测算，到 2030 年，代理式 AI 将推动 Token 消耗量增⻓ 24

倍，云服务商⽑利率将在短期内转正。 Mark Schilsky 也认为， Token ⽀出的短期乱象不会改变⻓
期趋势。
空头的依据是：⾼盛半导体分析师 Jim Covello 认为，当前产业链繁荣是以牺牲上游消耗为代价
的，⼏乎所有价值都流向了半导体公司，这种状况不可持续。投资⼈ Tommy Shaughnessy 警
告， AI ⼤⼚利润率深度为负，⼀旦企业直⾯按量计费的真实价格，⽀撑 GPU 采购和模型训练的
资本流动将⾯临逆转。
近⽇接受采访时， Anthropic CEO Dario Amodei 、博通总裁 Hock Tan 、《⼤空头》原型 Steve
Eisman 等也都谈到类似问题：企业⽬前对 AI ⼯具存在过度⽀出，也就是 “Token 最⼤化 ” 现象；随

### Page 6

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
443 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
4 条评论
着成本意识增强和计费模式转向按 Token 收费，未来更需要看实际投资回报率。
社交媒体上，也有声⾳直接质疑这张图的叙事框架。有⽤⼾指出， " 六天连跌去年在采⽤⾼峰期
发⽣过四次 " ， " 更便宜的模型反⽽会加速部署，因为成本⻔槛降低了 " 。
也有⼈反驳： " 不管多便宜，每次新模型发布都会指数级消耗更多 Token 。 "
⽬前，这场争论没有定论。但有⼀点是确定的： Token ⽀出的边际变化，通过 GPU 算⼒、 DRAM
内存及数据中⼼需求的传导链条，直接影响英伟达、存储芯⽚⼚商及云服务商的资本开⽀预
期。这张图，投资者不得不盯着看。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
那⼩孩2 ⼩时前中国北京
这就证明 AI 发展进⼊快速发展期了，不再是说代替⼈的故事的概念期了。当前的 ai 相关产业链上

的公司，按苹果、 Google 相关阶段的模型估就⾏了。差不了数量级了。

### Page 7

0  回复
Mr. 杜4 ⼩时前中国⼴东省
1  回复
不⽤说那么多，当出现这种情况的时候，就是获利了结跑路的的时候，等以后清晰了，有了定论
再进来
MobileUser07124 ⼩时前中国上海
5  回复
因为 ai 并不是必需品
， ai 只是资本需要的
⾦⽊⻥5 ⼩时前中国⼴东省
2  回复
Deepseek 斩杀线，昇腾加速！

---
## Document 506: 原油市場展望2026年６月号 ～トピック：イラン情勢に関する今後のシナリオと生産見通し（PDF：775KB）

Source PDF: all report pdf/原油市場展望2026年６月号　～トピック：イラン情勢に関する今後のシナリオと生産見通し（PDF：775KB）.pdf
Report source: JRI
Date: 2026-06-10
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

原油市場展望
2026年６月
調査部 マクロ経済研究センター
http://www.jri.co.jp/report/medium/oil/

### Page 2

性・完全性を保証するものではありません。また、情報の内容は、経済情勢等の変化により変更されることがあります。本資料の情報に基づき起因してご閲覧者様及び第三者に損害が発生したとしても執筆者、執筆にあたっての取材
先及び弊社は一切責任を負わないものとします。
メルマガ X（旧Twitter） YouTube

### Page 3

原油
(株)日本総合研究所 原油市場展望 2026年６月
◆現状：100ドルを挟んで乱高下
５月のＷＴＩ原油先物価格は 、中旬にかけて
100ドル台後半に上昇。米国とイランの間で戦闘終
結に向けた交渉が難航するなか、イランがアラブ首長
国連邦（ＵＡＥ）にドローン攻撃を行ったほか、米
国がイラン船籍の石油タンカーを攻撃したことが主因 。
月末にかけて、80ドル台後半に下落 。米国とイラ
ンの交渉が暫定合意に達し、トランプ米大統領の承
認待ちの段階にあるとの報道を受けて 、ホルムズ海
峡の封鎖が解除されるとの期待が高まったことが背
景。
６月入り後は、90ドル台で一進一退 。イスラエル
がレバノンの親イラン組織ヒズボラへの攻撃を強めた
ことで、価格が上昇。一方、両国の交渉が妥結する
との根強い期待が原油価格を下押し。
◆投機筋のネットポジションは高水準
３月にかけて 大幅に拡大した投機筋の 買い越し
幅は足元で縮小。もっとも、両国の戦闘が再開する
リスクを警戒し、買い越し幅は高水準で推移。
◆見通し：当面100ドル前後で高止まり

イランを巡る紛争が夏頃までに終結することを前提
とするメインシナリオでは、原油価格は７月まで100
ドル前後で高止まりした後 、緩やかに下落する見通
し。ただし、紛争が長引くサブシナリオでは、価格が年
末まで100ドル前後で推移するほか、米国とイランが
本格的に戦闘を再開する最悪シナリオでは 、150ド
ルまで急騰する恐れ（各シナリオの詳細は次頁）。
原油価格見通し：当面100ドル前後で高止まり
2
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
（ドル/バレル） WTI原油先物価格
原油価格と株価・為替レート
6,200
6,600
7,000
7,400
7,800116
118
120
122
2025/12 26/1 2 3 4 5 6
（2006年1月＝100） （ポイント）
（資料）FRB、Macrobond （年/月）
S&P500種株価
（右目盛）
ドル高↓
ドル名目実効レート
（左逆目盛）
▲20
▲15
▲10
▲5
0
5
10
15
20
2025/12 26/1 2 3 4 5 6

原油 ガソリン 留出油
（百万バレル）
（年/月）（資料）EIA、Macrobond
米国の原油・石油製品在庫（前週差）
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.9
2.0
2.1
2.2
▲50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
2025/1 5 9 26/1 5
投機筋ネットポジション（左目盛）
総建玉残高（右目盛）
（資料）CFTC、Macrobond
（注）建玉単位の1枚は1,000バレル。
（百万枚）
（年/月）
↑買い越し
↓売り越し
ＷＴＩ原油先物ポジション
（千枚）
50
70
90
110
130
150
2025/6 9 12 26/3 6 9 12
（ドル/バレル）
（資料）Macrobond
（年/月末）
予測
ＷＴＩ原油先物価格見通し

### Page 4

原油
(株)日本総合研究所 原油市場展望 2026年６月3
◆米・イラン交渉、７月までの妥結を想定
足元では、米国とイランが戦闘終結に向けた交渉
を継続。メインシナリオとして 、７月末までの紛争終
結を想定。米国側は、7/4の独立記念日までの交
渉妥結や、夏場のドライブシーズンに向けたガソリン
価格抑制を目指す状況 。イラン側も、軍事衝突や
経済制裁を背景に通貨安が進んでおり 、早期の紛
争解決を目指す誘因あり。
◆紛争前の生産水準回復は早くても来年
メインシナリオでも 、世界の石油生産が紛争前の
水準を回復するのは 27年入り後となる見通し 。紛
争が終結した後、ホルムズ海峡経由の海上輸送や 、
中東での石油生産が完全に正常化するまでには 、
少なくとも半年程度を要することが背景。
◆リスクシナリオは、一段の生産停滞
ただし、前述の経済面以外の理由で 、交渉が難
航する可能性も。紛争の終結時期が本年末まで後
ずれするサブシナリオでは、中東の石油増産ペースが
緩やかにとどまり、世界の石油生産は28年入り後も

軍事衝突前の水準を回復しない見通し。
また、両国が本格的に戦闘を再開する最悪シナリ
オでは、イランがホルムズ海峡を迂回するルート（紅
海・フジャイラ港など）を攻撃する一方、米国・イスラ
エルがイランの石油生産設備を破壊することで 、日
量▲1,000万バレル程度の追加減産が生じる恐れ。
トピック：イラン情勢に関する今後のシナリオと生産見通し
イラン情勢に関して今後想定されるシナリオ
メインシナリオ
リスクシナリオ
【サブシナリオ】
戦闘は激化しないが、
ホルムズ海峡封鎖継続
【最悪シナリオ】
戦闘が再開・泥沼化し、
供給制約が一段と悪化
①紛争終結時期 26年7月末まで
※足元の停戦交渉が近日中に妥結
26年12月末まで
※足元の停戦交渉が長期化
27年1月以降
※足元の停戦交渉が破談
②ホルムズ海峡 戦闘終結まで：封鎖
戦闘終結後：漸進的に正常化
③中東の生産回復
半年程度
※石油設備の追加被害は想定せず
※27年4～6月期に紛争前水準に
半年～1年
※石油設備の追加被害は想定せず
※生産水準は紛争前の8割と仮定

1年以上
※戦闘再開で石油設備に追加被害
※1,000万バレル/日超の追加減産
④投機筋の動向 現状程度 活発化
（資料）日本総研作成
▲ 1,270
▲ 2,254
▲ 2,500
▲ 2,000
▲ 1,500
▲ 1,000
▲ 500
0
メイン
シナリオ
サウジ
アラビア
ＵＡＥ イラク イラン 最悪
シナリオ
（25年10～12月期対差、万バレル/日）
（資料）IEAを基に日本総研作成
（注）メインシナリオは26Q2時点の減産幅。サウジアラビア/UAE/イラクは、紅
海/フジャイラ/イラク・トルコパイプライン経由の石油輸出が不可能になり、
輸出分と同量の減産を実施、イランは原油生産がゼロになる場合を想定。
最悪シナリオで想定される追加減産
▲ 2,500
▲ 2,000
▲ 1,500
▲ 1,000
▲ 500
0
500
2025 26 27 28
その他
中東
メインシナリオ
サブシナリオ
最悪シナリオ
（25年10～12月期対差、万バレル/日）
（資料）IEAを基に日本総研作成

（注）26年4～6月期（Q2）については、IEAによる直近5月時点の予測。
7～9月期以降の値は、日本総研のシナリオ別予測。
（年/期）
予測
世界の石油生産量の見通し（シナリオ別）

### Page 5

米・イラン紛争を踏まえ、今後の原油市場をどうみるか ― シナリオ別の生産・価格見通し ― 栂野裕貴 ６月８日
英国の財政規律、地方選挙を受けて高まる緩和圧力― 「ドーマー条件」が満たされにくいな
か、金利上昇・ポンド安が進むリスク―
ジェイムズ・パ
ターソン ６月１日
日本と欧州が直面する「同盟国のトリレンマ」― 日本も辿る欧州の道、双方の協調で負担
軽減を ―
立石宗一郎
中井勇良
西岡慎一
５月26日
為替介入後も根強い円安圧力 ― 円安是正には成長力の向上が不可欠 ― 立石宗一郎 ５月22日
データセンターが押し上げる米国の電力需要 ― 需給のひっ迫や供給の不安定化が投資・生
産活動の重石となる恐れ ― 森田一至 ５月22日
米中北京首脳会談に見える演出された安定と先送りの構図 福田直之 ５月18日
米国の太陽光パネルでの産業政策の後退とその影響 ― さらなる脱中国を重視、ＡＩ時代
の電力不足への対応とのジレンマに ―
野木森稔、
ジェイムズ・パ
ターソン
５月15日
米中北京首脳会談で想定される論点 ― 休戦の延長と対立の管理 ― 福田直之 ５月11日

公表済みのレポート（欧米経済関連）
詳細は、以下のリンクからPDF形式でご覧いただけます。

---
## Document 536: 宏观周报：避险情绪升温

Source PDF: all report pdf/宏观周报：避险情绪升温.pdf
Report source: 光大期货
Date: 2026-06-08
Pages: 22
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
光大证券 2020 年 半 年 度 业 绩
E V E R B R I G H T S E C U R I T I E S
宏观周报 : 避险情绪升温
于洁
2026 年 6 月 7 日
光期研究 见微知著

### Page 2

p 2
避险情绪升温
要 点
近期市场避险情绪升温，股市初现风格切换信号 。从基本面来看，经济的分化愈加明显，并不支持风格的切换。从5月PMI数据来
看，经济分化的格局持续，高技术制造业和装备制造业PMI分别为52.9和52.1，比上月上升0.7个和0.3个百分点，均持续高于临界点，特
别是高技术制造业PMI已连续16个月位于扩张区间，相关行业保持良好增势，新动能引领作用持续显现；消费品行业和高耗能行业 PMI
分别为49.7和47.1，比上月下降1.0个和0.8个百分点，市场活跃度有所减弱。
中外经济数据的公布和国外央行议息会议的召开或加剧市场的波动。国内方面，下周即将公布通胀和进出口数据。当前外需是经济
需求的主要动能，尤其是AI链的出口，进出口贸易的数据会影响市场对国内经济景气度的判断。展望二季度，出口或将保持韧性。一方
面，油价高位背景下，中国的产业链优势可以获得更多的出口份额。此外，中国的产业升级使得AI链出口逐年提升。近期美国科技巨头
一季度财报对 2026 年 AI 资本开支指引进一步上调，四家大厂 2026 年资本开支指引达 7100 亿美元，同比增速升至 80%以上，可以预见

AI链出口仍将保持强势。
此外，国内通胀数据的公布会影响市场对于央行流动性松紧的预期，央行《一季度货币政策报告》显示央行对通胀的关注度在上升。
如果后续中东冲突持续推升大宗商品价格，通胀约束可能成为央行决策的考量因素。报告提到“用好各类结构性货币政策工具“，措辞
从“降准降息“，变为“多种工具”，预计短期以结构性政策发力为主 ，推出降准降息等总量政策的概率不大 。从5月PMI数据来看，
价格指数高位波动。主要原材料购进价格指数和出厂价格指数分别为 60.5和51.9，均比上月回落3.2个百分点，仍处于近期较高水平，且
两个指数均连续5个月位于扩张区间，制造业市场价格总体水平继续上升 。从行业看，纺织、化学纤维及橡胶塑料制品、黑色金属冶炼
及压延加工等行业两个价格指数均连续三个月高于55.0，相关行业购销价格总体水平持续上涨。

### Page 3

p 3
宏观经济数据总览
图表：宏观经济数据总览
资料来源：Wind，光大期货研究所
2026-04 2026-03 2026-02 2026-01 2025-12 2025-11 2025-10 2025-09 2025-08 2025-07 2025-06 2025-05 2025-04
GDP（%） 当季 5.00 4.50 4.80 5.20
工业增加值（%） 当月 4.10 5.70 6.30 - 5.20 4.80 4.90 6.50 5.20 5.70 6.80 5.80 6.10
社零（%） 当月 0.20 1.70 2.80 - 0.90 1.30 2.90 3.00 3.40 3.70 4.80 6.40 5.10
固定资产投资（%） 累计 -1.60 1.70 1.80 - -3.80 -2.60 -1.70 -0.50 0.50 1.60 2.80 3.70 4.00
累计 1.20 4.10 3.10 - 0.60 1.90 2.70 4.00 5.10 6.20 7.50 8.50 8.80

累计 4.30 8.90 11.40 - -1.48 0.13 1.51 3.34 5.42 7.29 8.90 10.42 10.85
累计 -13.70 -11.20 -11.10 - -17.50 -16.00 -14.90 -14.00 -13.20 -12.40 -11.50 -11.10 -10.60
出口（%）（1-2月合并） 当月 14.10 2.50 21.80 - 6.60 5.90 -1.20 8.20 4.30 7.10 5.80 4.60 8.00
CPI（%） 当月 1.20 1.00 1.30 0.20 0.80 0.70 0.20 -0.30 -0.40 0.00 0.10 -0.10 -0.10
PPI（%） 当月 2.80 0.50 -0.90 -1.40 -1.90 -2.20 -2.10 -2.30 -2.90 -3.60 -3.60 -3.30 -2.70
社融（%） 7.80 7.90 8.20 8.20 8.30 8.50 8.50 8.70 8.80 9.00 8.90 8.70 8.70

人民币贷款（%） 5.60 5.70 6.00 6.10 6.40 6.40 6.50 6.60 6.80 6.90 7.10 7.10 7.20
M1（%） 5.00 5.10 5.90 4.90 3.80 4.90 6.20 7.20 6.00 5.60 4.60 2.30 1.50
M2（%） 8.60 8.50 9.00 9.00 8.50 8.00 8.20 8.40 8.80 8.80 8.30 7.90 8.00
宏观指标
制造业投资（%）
基建投资（%）
房地产投资（%）

### Page 4

p 4
1.实体经济高频

### Page 5

p 5
图表：螺纹表需(横坐标为春节后第n周）（单位：万吨）
资料来源：iFinD，mysteel，光大期货研究所
图表：螺纹厂库+社库(横坐标为春节后第n周）（单位：万吨）
资料来源：iFinD，mysteel，光大期货研究所
螺纹表需回落19.084万吨
0
500
1000
1500
2000
1 4 7 10 13 16 19 22 25 28 31 34 37 40 43 46 49 52 55
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2026
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
1 4 7 10 13 16 19 22 25 28 31 34 37 40 43 46 49 52 55
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2026

### Page 6

p 6
图表：五大品种钢材周度表观消费量（单位：万吨）
资料来源：iFinD，mysteel，光大期货研究所
图表：热轧板卷周度表观消费量（单位：万吨）
资料来源：iFinD，mysteel，光大期货研究所
热卷表需回落2.5万吨
240
260
280
300
320
340
360
1 5 9 13 17 21 25 29 33 37 41 45 49 53
2026 2025 2024 2023 2022
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026

### Page 7

p 7
水泥磨机开工负荷出现恢复性增长
图表：全国水泥磨机运转率(横坐标为春节后第n周）（单位：%）
资料来源：卓创资讯，光大期货研究所
图表：水泥出库量（经农历调整）（单位：万吨）
资料来源：百年建筑网，光大期货研究所
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
1 4 7 10 13 16 19 22 25 28 31 34 37 40 43 46 49 52 55
2025 2024 2023 2022 2021 2026
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
2023 2022 2024 2025 2026
卓创资讯对62个主要城市的监测数据显示，与上周相比，本周全国水泥磨机开工负荷均值46.73%，环比上升2.03百分点，升幅收窄0.14个
百分点。天气相对较好，多数省份施工条件理想，需求维持恢复状态。

### Page 8

p 8
沥青出货量小幅回升
图表：沥青开工率（单位：%） 图表：华东重交价格（单位：元/吨）
图表：沥青出货量（单位：万吨） 图表：沥青库存厂库+社库（单位：万吨）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
10
20
30
40
50
60 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
5000
1月2日
1月14日
1月26日
2月7日
2月19日
3月2日
3月14日
3月26日
4月8日
4月20日
5月5日
5月17日
5月29日
6月10日
6月22日
7月4日
7月16日
7月28日
8月9日
8月21日
9月2日
9月14日
9月26日
10月14日
10月26日
11月7日
11月19日
12月1日
12月13日
12月25日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2024年 2025年 2026年
0
100
200
300
400
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 9

p 9
浮法平板玻璃产能平稳
图表：浮法平板玻璃产能利用率（单位：%）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
图表：浮法平板玻璃价格（单位：元/吨）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
65
70
75
80
85
90
1月3日 1月31日 3月1日 3月29日 4月26日 5月30日 7月5日 8月16日 9月27日 11月10日 12月8日
2024年 2025年 2026年
1000
1200
1400
1600
1800
2000
2200
2400
2600
1月10日
1月20日
1月31日
2月10日
2月20日
2月28日
2月29日
3月10日
3月20日
3月31日
4月10日
4月20日
4月30日
5月10日
5月20日
5月31日
6月10日
6月20日
6月30日
7月10日
7月20日
7月31日
8月10日
8月20日
8月31日
9月10日
9月20日
9月30日
10月10日
10月20日
10月31日
11月10日
11月20日
11月30日
12月10日

12月20日
12月31日
2022年 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 10

p 10
5月30大中城市商品房成交面积环比增长7.2%，同比基本持平
图表：30城商品房成交面积（单位：万平方米）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
图表：主要城市二手房住宅成交（单位：万平方米）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
100
200
300
400
500
600 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
深圳 北京 成都 苏州

### Page 11

2026年5月销售各类挖掘机24794台，同比增长36.2%
p 11
图表：主要企业液压挖掘机内销销量（单位：辆）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
图表：主要企业液压挖掘机销量同比（单位：%）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
25000
30000
1月 2月 3月 4月 5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月
2022年 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
据中国工程机械工业协会对挖掘机主要制造企业统计，5月销售各类挖掘机24794台，同比增长36.2%。其中：国内销量11628台（含电动挖掘机
24台），同比增长38.6%；出口13166台（含电动挖掘机25台），同比增长34.2%。
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
销量:液压挖掘机:主要企业:总计:当月同比
销量:液压挖掘机:主要企业:国内(内销):当月同比

### Page 12

p 12
美国粗钢产量持续回升
图表：美国经济活动指数（单位：点）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
图表：美国粗钢产量（单位：万短吨）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2022年 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
1
1
2
2
3
3
4
4
2022-07
2022-09
2022-11
2023-01
2023-03
2023-05
2023-07
2023-09
2023-11
2024-01
2024-03
2024-05
2024-07
2024-09
2024-11
2025-01
2025-03
2025-05
2025-07
2025-09
2025-11
2026-01
2026-03
2026-05
美国:经济活动指数

### Page 13

p 13
一线城市地铁客运量平稳
图表：上海地铁客运量（单位：万人） 图表：北京地铁客运量（单位：万人）
图表：深圳地铁客运量（单位：万人） 图表：广州地铁客运量（单位：万人）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日

6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2024年 2025年 2023年 2026年
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日

4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 14

p 14
主要二线城市地铁客运量回落
图表：成都地铁客运量（单位：万人） 图表：南京地铁客运量（单位：万人）
图表：西安地铁客运量（单位：万人） 图表：武汉地铁客运量（单位：万人）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
1.0
101.0
201.0
301.0
401.0
501.0
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日

6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2024年 2025年 2023年 2026年
0
100
200
300
400
500
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
1.0
201.0
401.0
601.0
801.0
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日

5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 15

p 15
一线城市拥堵延时指数回落
图表：北京拥堵延时指数（单位：点） 图表：上海拥堵延时指数（单位：点）
图表：广州拥堵延时指数（单位：点） 图表：深圳拥堵延时指数（单位：点）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日

7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日

6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 16

p 16
主要二线城市拥堵延时指数回落
图表：成都拥堵延时指数（单位：点） 图表：南京拥堵延时指数（单位：点）
图表：西安拥堵延时指数（单位：点） 图表：武汉拥堵延时指数（单位：点）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2024年 2025年 2023年 2026年
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日

6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2024年 2025年 2023年 2026年
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日
5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2024年 2025年 2023年 2026年
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
1月1日
1月13日
1月25日
2月6日
2月18日
3月1日
3月13日
3月25日
4月6日
4月18日
4月30日
5月12日

5月24日
6月5日
6月17日
6月29日
7月11日
7月23日
8月4日
8月16日
8月28日
9月9日
9月21日
10月3日
10月15日
10月27日
11月8日
11月20日
12月2日
12月14日
12月26日
2024年 2025年 2023年 2026年

### Page 17

p 17
国内航班执行数处于近几年最低水平
图表：执行航班数:中国：国内航班（不含港澳台）：周平均（单位：班次）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
图表：顺丰速运快递业务量（单位：亿票）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
1月 2月 3月 4月 5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
14000
16000
1月1日
1月11日
1月19日
1月28日
2月5日
2月15日
2月23日
3月3日
3月12日
3月22日
3月30日
4月7日
4月16日
4月26日
5月4日
5月12日
5月21日
5月31日
6月9日
6月22日
7月2日
7月14日
7月27日
8月6日
8月18日
8月31日
9月10日
9月22日
10月5日
10月15日
10月27日
11月9日
11月19日
12月1日
12月14日
12月24日

2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 18

p 18
欧洲航线集装箱运价指数回升
图表：SCFI:综合指数（单位：点）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
图表：SCFIS:欧洲航线(基本港)（单位：点）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
1月1日
1月15日
1月29日
2月12日
2月26日
3月11日
3月25日
4月8日
4月22日
5月6日
5月20日
6月3日
6月24日
7月15日
8月5日
8月26日
9月16日
10月7日
10月28日
11月18日
12月9日
12月30日
2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 19

p 19
生猪屠宰环比回升
图表：全国能繁母猪存栏（单位：万头） 图表：全国：生猪定点屠宰企业屠宰量（单位：万头）
图表：宰后均重：白条猪肉(瘦肉型)：山东（单位：公斤） 图表：全国生猪存栏量（单位：万头）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
3500
3700
3900
4100
4300
4500
1月 2月 3月 4月 5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月
2022年 2023年 2024年 2025年
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
1月 2月 3月 4月 5月 6月 7月 8月 9月 10月 11月 12月
2022年 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
76
81
86
2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
39000
40000
41000
42000
43000
44000
2023-12 2024-06 2024-12 2025-06 2025-12
生猪存栏

### Page 20

p 20
半钢胎开工率回落
图表：半钢胎开工率（单位：%）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
图表：全钢胎开工率（单位：%）
资料来源：iFinD，光大期货研究所
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80 2023年 2024年 2025年 2026年

### Page 21

客服热线：400-700-7979        邮编：200127

### Page 22

何投资决策与本公司和作者无关。
p 22

---
## Document 591: 株価の死角は「賃上げ」

Source PDF: all report pdf/株価の死角は「賃上げ」.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-05-26
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 5 月 26 日(火)

1/3 
株価の死角は「賃上げ」 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  藤代 宏一 
（℡：050-5474-6123）

・「半導体に集中した株価上昇は持続性に乏しい」といった文脈では、その後に「好業績の裾野拡
大にはＧＤＰの過半を占める個人消費の回復が必要。個人消費の増加には更なる賃金上昇が不可
欠」という方向に議論が向かいがちである。事実、実質賃金がマイナス傾向で推移してきたこと
から、実質消費活動指数は伸び悩んできた。

・もっとも、賃金上昇率は既に３％程度まで高まっている。毎月勤労統計で示される正社員の一人
あたり賃金（一般労働者の所定内給与、共通事業所版）は2024年以降に概ね３％弱で推移した
後、2025年はサンプル要因に起因する下押しがあったとみられ２％台前半に落ち込んでいたが、
・日経平均株価は先行き12 ヶ月61,000円程度で推移するだろう 
・USD/JPYは先行き12ヶ月 155円程度で推移するだろう 
・日銀は利上げを続け、政策金利は26年６月に1.0％、27年７月に1.5％超となろう 
・FEDはFF金利を、年内は3.75％で据え置くだろう。 
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
消費活動指数
(備考）日銀より作成 旅行収支調整後
（2020=100）
名目
実質

### Page 2

2/3 
2026年入り後は再び３％程度の軌道に回帰している。2026年春闘賃上げ率に鑑みると、同程度の
賃金上昇は向こう１年程度続くことが見込まれる。

・長期デフレを経験した日本では、賃金は上がれば上がるほど良いといった風潮すらあり、賃金イ
ンフレの脅威に対する警戒は乏しい印象がある。ただし、冷静に考えると現在の３％の賃金上昇
率は２％の物価目標に対して整合的かつ理想的であり、これ以上の賃上げは物価を上振れ方向の
リスクに晒す危険がある。これまで政策当局が目指してきた３・２・１、すなわち３％の名目賃
金上昇、２％の物価上昇、１％の実質賃金上昇を達成するためには名目賃金上昇率をそのままに
物価上昇率を２％に誘導することが望ましいと言えよう。

・賃金上昇要因として警戒含みで意識しておくべきは、やはり原油高由来の物価上昇であろう。デ
フレ的な色彩が強い経済環境下において、原油高はむしろデフレ方向への圧力をもたらしてきた
経緯がある。企業はコスト増を価格転嫁できなかったため、企業収益は圧迫され、賃金上昇率が
伸び悩んだ。賃金が増えないなか、消費者は節約志向を強めざるを得ず、企業は値下げで需要を
掘り起こした。「物価→賃金」という経路でのインフレ加速は限定的であった。それに対して
2022年以降は企業の価格設定行動が積極化しているため、原油高が全般的な物価上昇に繋がりや
すく、賃金が犠牲になる可能性は低下していると考えられる。また労働市場が流動化するなか、
賃金上昇が広範な企業・業界で定着していることもあり、労働者（組合）が強気な要求を掲げや
すくなっているという環境変化も踏まえる必要があろう。

・では、仮に来期以降の賃金上昇率が高まるとの予想が支配的になってくると金融市場ではどんな
影響があるだろうか。想起されるのは予想インフレ率の高まりを受けた長期金利の上昇、そして
-1
0
1
2
3
4
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
所定内給与(一般労働者)
(備考）厚生労働省により作成
（前年比、％）
本系列
共通事業所

### Page 3

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
3/3 
株価の下押しであろう。債券市場参加者の予想インフレ率（10年ＢＥＩ）は現在2.3％程度まで高
まっている。市場規模の問題などから価格発見機能が弱いとされているものの、水準は米国に迫
っており、物価上昇率の加速とその定着が織り込まれているようにみえる。それを映じた長期金
利は2.8％程度まで上昇しており、株価の魅力を削いでいる。

・現在TOPIXの益回り（ＰＥＲの逆数）は6.4％と、直近10年のレンジ内にある。他方、長期金利は
上昇しており、益回り版イールドスプレッドは着実に縮小している。次に配当利回りとの比較に
目を向けると、こちらは逆転している。長期金利は２％台半ばの配当利回りを明確に上回ってき
た。益回りにしても配当利回りにしても、長期金利との単純比較は必ずしも有効ではないが、か
つて金利水準が１％未満だった局面とは異なり、現在の２％台後半という金利水準は、株式市場
からの資金流出を促す可能性がある。そう考えると、これ以上の賃金上昇率加速は株式市場にあ
まり良い結果をもたらさないかもしれない。

-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
日米 10年予想インフレ率（ＢＥＩ）
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
（％）
米国
日本
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
TOPIX 益回り・長期金利
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
（％）
TOPIX 益回り
長期金利
-1
0
1
2
3
4
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
TOPIX 配当利回り・長期金利
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
（％）
TOPIX 配当利回り
長期金利

---
## Document 613: 特朗普威胁打击伊朗电厂、桥梁，油价应声攀升，俄外交部：袭击民用设施“绝对不可接受”

Source PDF: all report pdf/特朗普威胁打击伊朗电厂、桥梁，油价应声攀升，俄外交部：袭击民用设施“绝对不可接受”.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-06-11
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

美伊冲突急剧升级，特朗普 24 ⼩时内⽴场从 “ 两三天内达成协议 ” 急转⾄ “ 必须付出代价 ” ，并
称即将下令打击伊朗发电⼚与桥梁。此前美军已对伊防空系统实施 “ ⾃卫性打击 ” ，伊朗南部
多地发⽣爆炸。
摘要：
随着美伊双⽅发⽣直接交⽕，中东紧张局势急剧升级。据新华社，美国总统特朗普 10 ⽇在社交
媒体发⽂说，伊朗 “ ⽤了太⻓时间，去谈⼀项本会对他们很有利的协议，现在他们必须付出代
价！ ”
据新华社援引美国福克斯新闻频道 10 ⽇报道，美国总统特朗普说他即将下令对伊朗的发电⼚和
桥梁发动新的打击。受上述⾔论冲击，油价迅速攀升，美股三⼤股指低开。
上述⾔论正值美伊军事冲突持续发酵之际。此前，据新华社报道，美国总统特朗普 9 ⽇在社交媒
体上称，伊朗在霍尔⽊兹海峡击落⼀架美军阿帕奇直升机，机上两名⻜⾏员安然⽆恙，但美国
必须对此次袭击作出回应。
另据新华社报道，美军中央司令部 9 ⽇发表声明称，已完成对伊朗的 “ ⾃卫性打击 ” 。此次打击是
对 8 ⽇⼀架美军直升机被击落的回应。声明说，美国空军和海军战机精准打击了位于霍尔⽊兹海

峡附近的伊朗防空系统、地⾯控制站和监控雷达。“ 这是对近期针对美国军队及途经该地区⽔域
的国际商船袭击事件的对等回应。 ”
从乐观谈判到强硬警告，特朗普 24 ⼩时⽴场急转
据报道，特朗普在 Truth Social 平台发⽂称，伊朗 " 花了太⻓时间 " 谈判。他写道， " 他们的海军和
空军⼏乎已不复存在 —— 已被彻底击败。伊朗只会说空话，没有任何⾏动。 "
这⼀表态令市场颇感意外。就在前⼀⽇，特朗普还表⽰双⽅可能在 " 两三天内 " 达成协议，并称关
键的霍尔⽊兹海峡将在协议达成后 " ⽴即 " 重开。短短 24 ⼩时内，美国总统的公开⽴场发⽣了 180
度转变。
据新华社，特朗普 9 ⽇在纽约肯尼迪国际机场接受记者采访时说，以⾊列和伊朗此前 “ 来回交
锋 ” ，如今 “ 同意停⽕ ” ， “ 我们正处在最后关头，将达成⼀份⾮常、⾮常棒的协议 ” 。当被问及谈判
还需耗时多久，特朗普回答： “ 两到三天。 ”
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
1008 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
美伊开⽕，紧张态势升级
近三天的密集交⽕是⾃特朗普 4 ⽉宣布停⽕以来最严峻的⼀次升级。
据央视新闻，当地时间 10 ⽇周三凌晨，伊朗南部霍尔⽊兹⽢省东部地区，包括锡⾥克、⽶纳布
等，发⽣数起爆炸。爆炸的确切来源和地点尚不清楚，但当地消息⼈⼠称，该省部分地区有防
空系统启动。
美媒援引两名美国官员的消息称，在美军周⼆晚间对伊朗发动报复性打击的⽬标中，包括伊⽅
的雷达阵地。另⼀美媒称，两名伊朗官员透露，当地时间周三凌晨，美军空袭了伊朗南部沿海
五个地点的军事基地和海军基地、雷达设施及炮兵阵地。
另据央视，特朗普表⽰： “ 我认为作出回应⾮常重要。他们击落了⼀架直升机，⽽我们正在进⾏
回应。 ” 他说： “ 我⼀直相信要以强硬⽅式回应。我们原本有⼀项⾮常好的协议，⽽且很可能仍然

会有。这次⾏动是对他们昨晚击落我们直升机的回应，我认为回应应该⾮常强硬、⾮常有⼒，
⽽这次⾏动正是如此。 ”
俄罗斯外交部：袭击⺠⽤设施 “ 绝对不可接受 ” ，愿为伊朗问题谈判提供便利
当前，美伊谈判前景仍不明朗。俄罗斯外交部 10 ⽇表⽰，愿为通过政治外交途径解决伊朗问题
提供便利。
据新华社报道，俄外交部发⾔⼈扎哈罗娃当天在新闻发布会上指出，伊朗局势应尽快重回 “ 政治
外交轨道 ” 。她呼吁冲突各⽅保持克制、⽴即停⽌军事⾏动，并重申袭击⺠⽤基础设施 “ 绝对不可
接受 ” 。
扎哈罗娃说，围绕伊朗问题的谈判虽在推进，但当前局势依旧 “ 极度动荡 ” 。任何地⾯军事⾏动都
会加剧紧张态势，不仅会给各⽅带来⽆法挽回的后果，也势必冲击地区及全球安全。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

### Page 3

7 条评论
MobileUser93165 ⼩时前中国浙江省
0  回复
丧尽天良，都⼤半截⾝⼦⼊⼟的⼈，少造点孽吧，为⼦孙后代积点德吧！
15600079482769 ⼩时前巴西
0  回复
这是 NBA 总决赛输了⽣⽓了
MobileUser19949 ⼩时前中国江西省
1  回复
说到做到
房⼭季⻦猴9 ⼩时前中国北京
1  回复
特朗普该打胰岛素了
唐僧10 ⼩时前中国江苏省
1  回复
威胁⽽已，肯定不会打

---
## Document 626: 米国_ 根強いインフレ圧力が継続（26年5月CPI） ～6月FOMCの据え置き観測は維持も、強まる年内利上げ観測～

Source PDF: all report pdf/米国_ 根強いインフレ圧力が継続（26年5月CPI）   ～6月FOMCの据え置き観測は維持も、強まる年内利上げ観測～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-06-11
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

US  Indicator s

2026 年 6 月 11 日

1/7

米国: 根強いインフレ圧力が継続（26 年 5 月 CPI） 
～6 月 FOMC の据え置き観測は維持も、強まる年内利上げ観測～ 
 経済調査部 主任エコノミスト  桂畑 誠治 
（℡：050-5474-7493）

１．総合指数は小幅鈍化するも、依然として高い伸びが継続 
26 年 5 月の消費者物価（総合CPI）は、前月比＋0.5％（前月：同＋0.6％）となり、市場予想中 
央値と一致した。上昇率は前月から鈍化したものの、依然として高い伸びが続いた。 
内訳をみると、エネルギー価格は電気料金の上昇率が鈍化したものの、ガソリンの伸び率が高
まったことで、前月比＋3.9％（前月：同＋3.8％）へと小幅加速した。一方で、エネルギー・食 
品を除く消費者物価（コアCPI）は、同＋0.2％（前月：同＋0.4％）となり、市場予想＋0.3％を 
下回って鈍化した。食品価格については、外食、穀物・ベーカリー製品の伸び率が前月から高ま 
ったものの、牛肉、乳製品が下落に転じたほか、野菜・果物、ノンアルコール飲料も上昇率を下
げ、全体で同＋0.2％（前月：同＋0.5％）へと低下した。

２．6 月据え置きも、先行きへのインフレ警戒から年内利上げ観測が強まる 
金融市場では、5 月コアCPIが市場予想を下回って鈍化したことを受け、FF金利先物市場が示す 
6 月FOMCでの政策金利据え置きの確率は約 98％（前日約 99％）と高水準でほぼ横ばいとなった。 
先々の見通しについては、根強いインフレへの警戒を背景に 9 月に 25bp以上の利上げが行われる 
確率が約 39％（同約 37％）へ上昇し、据え置き予想は約 60％（同約 63％）へ低下した。12 月に
食品 住宅 アパレル 運輸 医療 財 サービス 
総合 コア ｴﾈﾙｷﾞｰ コア コア 
25/05 ＋0.099 (＋2.4) ＋0.130 (＋2.8) ▲0.7 ＋0.3 ＋0.3 ▲0.3 ▲0.6 ＋0 .3 ▲0.0 ＋0.2 
25/06 ＋0.254 (＋2.7) ＋0.234 (＋2.9) ＋0.4 ＋0.3 ＋0.3 ＋0.3 ＋0.0 ＋0 .4 ＋0.2 ＋0.3 
25/07 ＋0.228 (＋2.7) ＋0.313 (＋3.1) ▲0.6 ＋0.1 ＋0.2 ＋0.1 ＋0.1 ＋0 .7 ＋0.2 ＋0.4 
25/08 ＋0.348 (＋2.9) ＋0.310 (＋3.1) ＋0.7 ＋0.4 ＋0.3 ＋0.3 ＋0.8 ▲0 .1 ＋0.2 ＋0.3 
25/09 ＋0.295 (＋3.0) ＋0.218 (＋3.0) ＋1.4 ＋0.2 ＋0.2 ＋0.5 ＋0.8 ＋0 .2 ＋0.2 ＋0.2 
25/10 #N/A (＋2.8) #N/A (＋2.8) #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N /A #N/A 
25/11 #N/A (＋2.7) #N/A (＋2.6) #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N/A #N /A #N/A 
25/12 ＋0.298 (＋2.7) ＋0.233 (＋2.6) ＋0.3 ＋0.7 ＋0.4 ＋0.3 ▲0.0 ＋0 .4 ＋0.0 ＋0.3 
26/01 ＋0.171 (＋2.4) ＋0.295 (＋2.5) ▲1.5 ＋0.2 ＋0.2 ＋0.3 ▲0.3 ＋0 .3 ＋0.0 ＋0.4 
26/02 ＋0.267 (＋2.4) ＋0.216 (＋2.5) ＋0.6 ＋0.4 ＋0.3 ＋1.3 ＋0.2 ＋0 .5 ＋0.1 ＋0.3 
26/03 ＋0.865 (＋3.3) ＋0.196 (＋2.6) ＋10.9 ▲0.0 ＋0.3 ＋1.0 ＋4.3 ▲ 0.2 ＋0.1 ＋0.2 
26/04 ＋0.640 (＋3.8) ＋0.376 (＋2.8) ＋3.8 ＋0.5 ＋0.7 ＋0.6 ＋1.3 ▲0 .1 ＋0.0 ＋0.5 
26/05 ＋0.473 (＋4.2) ＋0.208 (＋2.9) ＋3.9 ＋0.2 ＋0.2 ＋0.3 ＋1.3 ＋0 .3 ▲0.1 ＋0.3 
(注1）括弧内は前年同月比,(注2)25年10,11月前月比､10月前年比は未公表 
消費者物価

### Page 2

2/7 
3.50 
3.60 
3.70 
3.80 
3.90 
4.00 
4.10 
26年6月
7月
8月
9月
10月
11月
12月
27年1月
2月
3月
4月
5月
6月
7月
8月
9月
10月
11月
12月
（図表）ＦＦ金利先物イールドカーブ 
2026/6/8 
2026/6/9 
2026/6/10 
（％） 
（出所）Bloombergより作成 
ついても 25bp以上の利上げ確率が約 72％（同約 69％）へと上昇し、据え置き予想は約 28％（同 
約 31％）へ低下した。債券市場では、米 2 年国債利回り、10 年国債利回りが一旦低下したが上昇 
に転じた（P6） 。為替市場ではドルが主要通貨に対して一旦弱含んだが、強含みに転じた。主要株 
価指数は一旦上昇したが、水準を切り下げた。

３．コアCPIでは財が下落し、サービスが低下 
コアCPIの内訳では、財コアが前月比▲0.1％（前月：同 0.0％）と下落に転じたほか、サービス 
コアは同＋0.3％（前月：同＋0.5％）へと低下した。 
財コアでは、中古車、大学の教材が上昇に転じた。一方、余暇商品、情報機器が下落に転じ、 
新車や自動車部品、医療用品が下落幅を拡大した。また、衣料品、アルコール飲料、その他財は
伸び率が低下した。家庭用耐久品・消耗品も下落幅を縮小したがマイナス圏で推移した。 
サービスコアでは、病院・関連サービス、自動車メンテナンス・修理、電話サービス、インタ 
ーネットサービスが上昇に転じたほか、専門医療、余暇サービス、その他個人向けサービスが上 
昇した。航空運賃は小幅低下にとどまり高い伸びが続いた。一方、自動車保険が下落に転じ、レ 
ンタカーは下落幅を拡大した。帰属家賃、賃貸料、ホテル、上下水道・ゴミ収集サービスは伸び 
率が低下した。また、医療保険は下落幅を縮小しつつもマイナス圏で推移した。カーリースは前
月から伸び率が低下し、横ばいとなった。

### Page 3

3/7 
-4 
-2 
0
2
4
6
8
10 
12 
18 20 22 24 26 
（％） 
コアCPIの推移 
３ヵ月前対比年率 
６ヵ月前対比年率 
前年比 
(出所）米労働省 
-0.6 
-0.4 
-0.2 
0.0 
0.2 
0.4 
0.6 
0.8 
1.0 
20 21 22 23 24 25 26 
（％） ＣＰＩコアの寄与度分解（前月比） 
帰属家賃 その他 衣料品価格 CPIコア

４．インフレの再燃を示す上昇モメンタム 
コアCPIの上昇モメンタムを確認すると、3 カ月前対比年率で＋3.2％（4 月：＋3.2％） 、6 カ月 
前対比年率で＋3.1％（4 月：＋2.9％）とともに高い伸びとなっており、インフレ圧力が再燃して 
いることが示されている。

５．前年同月比ではエネルギーの急伸、食品、コアサービスが押し上げ 
前年同月比では、総合CPIが＋4.2％と市場予想と一致したが、前月＋3.8％から加速した。食品 
は＋3.1％（前月：＋3.2％） 、エネルギー全体ではガソリンが＋40.9％、燃料油が＋58.9％と急伸
したことで＋23.5％（前月：＋17.9％）と大幅にプラス幅を拡大。コアCPIも＋2.9％（前月：＋
2.8％）と市場予想中央値と一致したが、加速した。 
コアCPIの内訳をみると、財コアは＋1.1％（前月：＋1.1％）と横ばいとなった。衣料品、アル

### Page 4

4/7 
-3 
-2 
-1 
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10 
11 
12 
13 
14 
85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 
サービス（コア） 
消費者物価（コア） 
商品（コア） 
米国：商品・サービス価格の推移（コア、前年比） （％） 
（出所）米労働省 
-2 
0
2
4
6
8
10 
12 
14 
16 
79 81 83 85 87 89 91 93 95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25 
（％） 
米国：総合ＣＰＩとコアＣＰＩの推移(前年同月比)
CPI 
CPIコア 
(出所）米労働省 
コール飲料が上昇した。一方、医薬品など医療用品が下落幅を拡大したほか、家庭用耐久品・消 
耗品、自動車部品、余暇商品、その他財が低下した。情報機器は同率の下落を続け、中古車は下 
落幅を縮小しつつもマイナスを維持した。新車は同率の伸びを維持した。 
サービスコアは＋3.4％（前月：＋3.3％）と上昇した。自動車保険が下落に転じたほか、医療 
保険、レンタカーが下落幅を拡大した。また、教育関連サービスが低下した。電話サービスが下 
落を続けた。一方、賃貸料（＋2.9％、前月：＋2.8％） 、ホテル、専門医療サービス、病院・関連 
サービス、航空運賃、余暇サービス、インターネットサービス、その他個人向けサービスが上昇 
した。さらに、帰属家賃（＋3.3％、前月：＋3.3％） 、上下水道・ゴミ収集サービスの前年比の伸 
び率は前月から横ばいとなった。

６．実質賃金の減少が個人消費の抑制要因に 
物価高騰の影響で、5 月の実質平均時給は前年比▲0.7％（前月：▲0.3％）となり、2023 年 2
月（▲1.1％）以来のマイナス幅を記録した。実質平均週給も前年比▲0.4％（前月：▲0.2％）と 
2023 年 5 月（▲0.4％）以来のマイナス幅となっており、購買力の低下が 5 月の個人消費の抑制要
因になったと考えられる。

### Page 5

5/7
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（％） ＣＰＩ寄与度分解（前年同月比）
その他
財コア
家賃
帰属家賃
食料品
ｴﾈﾙｷﾞｰ
CPI
(出所）米労働省
▲ 1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
84 86 88 90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
（％） コアＣＰＩと帰属家賃・家賃の推移（前年同月比）
帰属家賃
賃貸料
CPIコア
(出所）米労働省
-12
-9
-6
-3
0
3
6
9
12
15
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
89 90 91 92 93 94 95 96 97 98 99 00 01 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（％） （％） 米国：エネルギーと食品の推移(前年同月比)

エネルギー（左)
食品（右）
(出所）米労働省

### Page 6

6/7
160.2
160.3
160.3
160.4
160.4
160.5
160.5
160.6
160.6
20:00
20:16
20:32
20:48
21:04
21:20
21:36
21:52
22:08
22:24
22:40
22:56
23:12
23:28
23:44
0:00
0:16
0:32
0:48
1:04
1:20
1:36
1:52
2:08
2:24
2:40
2:56
3:12
3:28
3:44
4:00
4:16
4:32
4:48
5:04
5:20
5:36
5:52
（円） ドル・円 CPI統計発表
1.151
1.152
1.153
1.154
1.155
1.156
1.157
1.158
20:00
20:16
20:32
20:48
21:04
21:20
21:36
21:52
22:08
22:24
22:40
22:56
23:12
23:28
23:44
0:00
0:16
0:32
0:48
1:04
1:20
1:36

1:52
2:08
2:24
2:40
2:56
3:12
3:28
3:44
4:00
4:16
4:32
4:48
5:04
5:20
5:36
5:52
（ﾕｰﾛ ）
ユーロ・ドル CPI統計発表
49,200
49,400
49,600
49,800
50,000
50,200
50,400
50,600
50,800
51,000
20:00
20:16
20:32
20:48
21:04
21:20
21:36
21:52
22:08
22:24
22:40
22:56
23:12
23:28
23:44
0:00
0:16
0:32
0:48
1:04
1:20
1:36
1:52
2:08
2:24
2:40
2:56
3:12
3:28
3:44
4:00
4:16
4:32
4:48
5:04
5:20
5:36
5:52
（ドル） ＮＹダウ先物 CPI統計発表
7,150
7,200
7,250
7,300
7,350
7,400
7,450
20:00
20:15

20:30
20:45
21:00
21:15
21:30
21:45
22:00
22:15
22:30
22:45
23:00
23:15
23:30
23:45
0:00
0:15
0:30
0:45
1:00
1:15
1:30
1:45
2:00
2:15
2:30
2:45
3:00
3:15
3:30
3:45
4:00
4:15
4:30
4:45
5:00
Ｓ＆Ｐ 500 先物 CPI統計発表
85.0
86.0
87.0
88.0
89.0
90.0
91.0
92.0
93.0
20:00
20:16
20:32
20:48
21:04
21:20
21:36
21:52
22:08
22:24
22:40
22:56
23:12
23:28
23:44
0:00
0:16
0:32
0:48
1:04
1:20
1:36
1:52
2:08
2:24
2:40
2:56
3:12
3:28
3:44
4:00
4:16
4:32
4:48
5:04
5:20
5:36

5:52
（ドル）
原油先物 CPI統計発表
4.08
4.09
4.10
4.11
4.12
4.13
4.14
4.15
4.16
20:00
20:16
20:32
20:48
21:04
21:20
21:36
21:52
22:08
22:24
22:40
22:56
23:12
23:28
23:44
0:00
0:16
0:32
0:48
1:04
1:20
1:36
1:52
2:08
2:24
2:40
2:56
3:12
3:28
3:44
4:00
4:16
4:32
4:48
5:04
5:20
5:36
5:52
（％） 米2年国債利回り CPI統計発表
4.49
4.50
4.51
4.52
4.53
4.54
4.55
4.56
20:00
20:16
20:32
20:48
21:04
21:20
21:36
21:52
22:08
22:24
22:40
22:56
23:12
23:28
23:44
0:00
0:16
0:32
0:48
1:04
1:20

1:36
1:52
2:08
2:24
2:40
2:56
3:12
3:28
3:44
4:00
4:16
4:32
4:48
5:04
5:20
5:36
5:52
（％） 米10 年国債利回り CPI統計発表

### Page 7

経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。
7/7
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
2020/1/1
2020/3/23
2020/6/13
2020/9/3
2020/11/24
2021/2/14
2021/5/7
2021/7/28
2021/10/18
2022/1/8
2022/3/31
2022/6/21
2022/9/11
2022/12/2
2023/2/22
2023/5/15
2023/8/5
2023/10/26
2024/1/16
2024/4/7
2024/6/28
2024/9/18
2024/12/9
2025/3/1
2025/5/22
2025/8/12
2025/11/2
2026/1/23
2026/4/15

2020.3.23=100
株価動向
NASDAQ総合
指数
S&P500
日経平均
ＮＹダウ
-0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
2.8
3.0
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.0
4.2
4.4
4.6
4.8
5.0
5.2
22 23 24 25 26
（％）
日米独英10年国債利回り
ｲｷﾞﾘｽ
米国
ﾄﾞｲﾂ
日本
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
600
2020/1/1
2020/3/23
2020/6/13
2020/9/3
2020/11…
2021/2/14
2021/5/7
2021/7/28
2021/10…
2022/1/8
2022/3/31
2022/6/21
2022/9/11
2022/12/2
2023/2/22
2023/5/15
2023/8/5
2023/10…
2024/1/16
2024/4/7
2024/6/28

2024/9/18
2024/12/9
2025/3/1
2025/5/22
2025/8/12
2025/11/2
2026/1/23
2026/4/15
2020.3.23=100
株価動向
ｲﾝﾄﾞセンセック
ス指数
加権指数
上海総合株価指
数
韓国総合株価指
数

---
## Document 642: 米雇用統計（26年5月）－非農業部門雇用者数（前月比）は+17.2万人と地方政府、娯楽・宿泊の増加主導で市場予想（+8.8万人）を大幅に上回る

Source PDF: all report pdf/米雇用統計（26年5月）－非農業部門雇用者数（前月比）は+17.2万人と地方政府、娯楽・宿泊の増加主導で市場予想（+8.8万人）を大幅に上回る.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-06-08
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1． 結果の概要：雇用者数が市場予想を上回った一方、失業率は市場予想に一致 
6 月 5 日、米国労働統計局（ＢＬＳ）は5 月の雇用統計を発表した。非農業部門雇用者数は、前
月対比で+17.2 万人の増加1（前月改定値：+17.9 万人）と+11.5 万人から上方修正された前月を小
幅に下回ったものの、市場予想の+8.8 万人（Bloomberg 集計の中央値、以下同様）は大幅に上回
った（後掲図表2 参照） 。 
失業率は 4.3％（前月：4.3％、市場予想：4.3％）と前月、市場予想に一致した（後掲図表 6 参
照） 。労働参加率2は 61.8％（前月：61.8％、市場予想：61.8％）とこちらも前月、市場予想に一致
した（後掲図表5 参照） 。

2． 結果の評価：地方政府、娯楽・宿泊主導で雇用が大幅増加、ワールドカップの影響 を注視 
事業所調査の非農業部門雇用者数（前月比）は 5 月が市場予想を大幅に上回ったほか、後述する
ように過去 2 ヵ月分が合計+9.3 万人の大幅な上方修正となった結果、過去 3 ヵ月の月間平均増加
ペースは+18.8 万人と 24 年 3 月以来の水準に回復した。5 月雇用増加の業種別の内訳をみると、 後
述するように地方政府（+5.5 万人） 、娯楽・宿泊（+7.0 万人）の増加が目立っている。このうち、
娯楽 ・ 宿泊は6 月から開催されるサッカーワールドカップの影響で一時的に押し上げられている可
能性が指摘されている。 
家計調査は失業率が3 ヵ月連続で横這いと安定しているほか、前月まで5 ヵ月連続で低下してい
た労働参加率も5 月は横這いとなっており、 低
下傾向に歯止めがかかった。 
一方、時間当たり賃金（全雇用者ベース）は、
前月比+0.3％（前月：+0.2％、 市場予想 ：+0.3％）
と前月を上回った一方、市場予想に一致した。 
前年同月比は+3.4％ （前月：+3.6％、 市場予
想：+3.4％）と前月を下回った一方、市場予想
に一致した（図表 1）。時間当たり賃金は前年
同月比で低下基調が持続しており、 賃金上昇圧
力は限定的にとどまっている。

1 季節調整済の数値。以下、特に断りがない限り、季節調整済の数値を記載している。 
2 労働参加率は、生産年齢人口（16 歳以上の人口）に対する労働力人口（就業者数と失業者数を合計したもの）の比率。 
（図表1）

### Page 2

3． 事業所調査の詳細：地方政府、娯楽・宿泊が増加 
事業所調査のうち、民間サービス部門は前月比+9.2 万人（前月：+16.3 万人）と前月から伸び
は鈍化した（図表2）。 
民間サービス部門の中では、娯楽・宿泊が
前月比+7.0 万人（前月：+3.0 万人）と前月か
ら伸びが加速した。娯楽・宿泊の増加には 6
月開幕のサッカーワールドカップに向けた一
時的な雇用増加が含まれている可能性が指摘
されている。また、医療・社会扶助サービス
が+4.7 万人（前月：+5.8 万人）と前月から伸
びは鈍化したものの、堅調な増加を維持し
た。 
一方、専門・ビジネスサービスが+0.6 万人（前月：+2.2 万人）、運輸・倉庫が+0.1 万人（前
月：+3.9 万人）と前月から伸びが鈍化したほか、情報が▲0.2 万人（前月：▲0.8 万人）と前月に
続いて減少した。さらに、小売業が▲0.1 万人（前月：+2.4 万人）と前月からマイナスに転じた
ほか、金融サービスが▲2.2 万人（前月：▲0.6 万人）とマイナス幅が拡大した。 
財生産部門は前月比+2.8 万人（前月：+1.4 万人）と前月から伸びが加速した。製造業が+0.7 万
人（前月：横這い）、建設業が+1.7 万人（前月：+0.9 万人）と前月から伸びが加速した。 
政府部門は前月比+5.2 万人（前月：+0.2 万人）と前月から伸びが加速した。内訳をみると、連邦
政府が+0.1 万人 （前月 ：▲0.6 万人）と前月からプラスに転じたほか、州 ・ 地方政府が+5.1 万人 （前
月：+0.8 万人）と伸びが加速した。とくに地方政府が+5.5 万人（前月：+0.6 万人）と大幅に増加
したことが大きい。

前月 （4 月）と前々月 （3 月） の雇用増加数（改定値） は前月が+17.9 万人 （改定前：+11.5 万人）
と+6.4 万人の上方修正となったほか、前々月が+21.4 万人（改定前：+18.5 万人）とこちらは+2.9
万人の上方修正となった（図表3）。 この結果、2 ヵ月合計の修正幅は+9.3 万人の大幅な上方修正と
なった。

ＢＬＳの公表に先立って6 月 3 日に発表されたＡＤＰ社の推計は、民間部門の雇用増加数が前
月比+12.2 万人（前月改定値:+10.5 万人、市場予想:+12.0 万人）と+10.9 万人から小幅下方修正
された前月、市場予想を上回った。この結果、ＡＤＰ統計は前月に続いて2 桁の大幅な伸びとな
った雇用統計と概ね整合的な結果と言えよう。 
（図表2）

▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
2023 2024 2025 2026
政府部門
小売業
その他民間サービス業
製造業
建設業
その他生産部門
非農業部門合計
ＡＤP調査
非農業部門雇用者数の増減（業種別）（前月差、万人）
（月次）（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 3

4． 家計調査の詳細：労働参加率の低下傾向に歯止め 
家計調査のうち、5 月の労働力人口は前月対比で+8.3 万人（前月：▲9.2 万人）と 3 ヵ月ぶりに
プラスに転じた。内訳を見ると、失業者数が▲6.6 万人 （前月：+13.4 万人）と前月からマイナスに
転じたものの、就業者数が+14.9 万人（前月：▲22.6 万人）と 4 か月ぶりにプラスに転じたほか、
失業者数のマイナス幅を上回る増加幅となって労働力人口全体を押し上げた。一方、非労働力人口
は+1.7 万人（前月：+18.8 万人）と伸びは鈍化したものの、4 か月連続のプラスとなっており、引
き続き労働市場から退出する動きが続いていることを示した。 
労働参加率は61.8％ （前月：61.8％） と前月から横這いとなり、 前月までの5 ヵ月連続低下から
低下傾向に歯止めがかかった（図表5）。 
一方プライムエイジと呼ばれる働き盛り （25～54 歳） の労働参加率は5 月が83.9％ （前月 ：83.8％）
と前月から+0.1％ポイント上昇した。男女の内訳は男性が89.9％ （前月 ：89.8％） と前月から+0.1％
ポイント上昇したほか、女性も 78.2％（前月：78.0％）と前月から+0.2％ポイント上昇した。

（図表 3）

（図表 4）

（図表 5）

（図表 6）

▲ 2.0
▲ 1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
非農業部門合計 建設業 製造業 民間サービス業
（小売業を除く）
小売業 政府部門
2026年3月
2026年4月
前月分・前々月分の改定幅（前月差、万人）
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 8
▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
2023 2024 2025 2026
週当たり労働時間 時間当たり賃金 週当たり賃金
民間非農業部門の週当たり賃金伸び率（年率換算、寄与度）（年率、％）
（月次）
（注）前月比伸び率（年率換算）
週当たり賃金伸び率≒週当たり労働時間伸び率＋時間当たり賃金伸び率
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
61.5
62.0
62.5
63.0
63.5
▲ 0.20
▲ 0.15
▲ 0.10
▲ 0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
2023 2024 2025 2026
労働力人口要因
16才以上人口要因
労働参加率（前月差）
労働参加率（水準、右軸）
労働参加率の変化（要因分解）（前月差、％ポイント）
（月次）
（注）労働参加率の前月差≒（労働力人口の伸び率─16才以上人口の伸び率）×前月の労働参加率
グラフの前月差データは後方3カ月移動平均。また、年次ごとに人口推計が変更になっているため、
断層を調整
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（％）
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.0
4.2
4.4
4.6
▲ 0.6
▲ 0.4
▲ 0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
2023 2024 2025 2026
非労働力人口要因
就業者要因
16才以上人口要因
失業率（前月差）
失業率（水準、右軸）
失業率の変化（要因分解）（前月差、％ポイント）
（月次）
（注）非労働力人口の増加、就業者人口の増加、16才以上人口の減少が、それぞれ失業率の改善要因。
また、年次ごとに人口推計が変更になっているため、断層を調整
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（％）

### Page 4

5 月の長期失業者数（27 週以上の失業者人数）は198.8 万人（前月：183.3 万人）と前月から
+15.5 万人の増加となった。長期失業者の失業者全体に占めるシェアは27.5％（前月：25.3％）
と前月から+2.2％ポイント増加した（図表7）。一方、平均失業期間は26.0 週（前月：24.4 週）
と前月から+1.6 週長期化した。

最後に、周辺労働力人口（172.3 万人）3や、経済的理由によるパートタイマー（480.5 万人）も
考慮した広義の失業率（U-6）4は、5 月が8.1％（前月：8.2％）と前月から▲0.1％ポイント低下
した（図表8）。この結果、通常の失業率（U-3）との乖離幅は+3.8％ポイント（前月：+3.9％ポイ
ント）と前月から▲0.1％ポイント縮小した。

3 周辺労働力とは、職に就いておらず、過去4 週間では求職活動もしていないが、過去12 カ月の間には求職活動をしたことがあり、
働くことが可能で、また、働きたいと考えている者。 
4 U-6 は、失業者に周辺労働力と経済的理由によりパートタイムで働いている者を加えたものを労働力人口と周辺労働力人口の和で除
したもの。つまり、U-6＝（失業者＋周辺労働力人口＋経済的理由によるパートタイマー）／（労働力人口＋周辺労働力人口） 。

（図表 7）

（図表 8）

本誌記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本誌は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。 
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
26
27
28
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2023 2024 2025 2026
5週未満 5-14週 15-26週 27週以上 平均（右軸）
失業期間の分布と平均失業期間（シェア、％）
（月次）（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（週）
1.40
1.45
1.50
1.55
1.60
1.65
1.70
1.75
1.80
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
2023 2024 2025 2026
通常の失業率（U-3） 広義の失業率（U-6）
広義失業率の推移（％）
（月次）
（注）U-6＝（失業者＋周辺労働力＋経済的理由によるパートタイマー）／（労働力＋周辺労働力）
周辺労働力は失業率（U-6）より逆算して推計
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（億人）
労働力人口（経済的理由によるパートタイマー除く、右軸）
経済的理由によるパートタイマー（右軸）
周辺労働力人口（右軸）

---
## Document 704: 郑栅洁：全面实施“人工智能+”行动 深入整治“内卷式”竞争

Source PDF: all report pdf/郑栅洁：全面实施“人工智能+”行动 深入整治“内卷式”竞争.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
196 收藏 分享到 :
“ ⼗五五 ” 规划《纲要》出台实施，我国经济开局良好，延续稳中有进、向新向优态势。国家
发展改⾰委将认真贯彻落实中央部署，⽤好宏观政策，加强⽔⽹、算⼒⽹等规划建设，实
施 “ ⼈⼯智能 +” ⾏动，整治 “ 内卷式 ” 竞争，兜牢⺠⽣底线，并储备政策⼯具，巩固经济向好
基础。
摘要：
6 ⽉ 10 ⽇，国家发展改⾰委主任郑栅洁主持召开经济形势专家座谈会，与中国社科院学部委员蔡
昉、赛迪研究院院⻓张⽴以及中银证券等部分国内外券商⾸席经济学家进⾏座谈交流，围绕分
析研判当前经济形势、持续扩⼤内需、推动⾼⽔平科技⾃⽴⾃强和产业链⾃主可控、着⼒稳就
业稳企业稳市场稳预期等⽅⾯，听取与会专家的观点看法和意⻅建议。
座谈会上，与会专家畅所欲⾔，详细介绍了对当前中国经济形势的看法。⼤家认为，今年以

来，中国经济保持平稳运⾏，⼈⼯智能等新技术加快发展，⾯对外部冲击出⼝保持较快增⻓，
产业链供应链韧性持续彰显，在全球主要经济体中表现较好，各⽅⾯都普遍看好中国经济发展
前景。同时，与会专家深⼊分析了当前经济运⾏⾯临的突出困难问题，围绕更好实施宏观政
策、积极扩⼤内需特别是扩⼤有效投资、推动科技创新和产业创新深度融合、稳定和扩⼤就
业、防范化解重点领域⻛险等⽅⾯，提出了相关意⻅建议。
郑栅洁认真倾听每位专家的发⾔，并与⼤家深⼊互动交流。他表⽰，今年是 “ ⼗五五 ” 开局之年，
在以习近平同志为核⼼的党中央坚强领导下， “ ⼗五五 ” 规划《纲要》出台实施，宏观政策落实有
⼒有效，我国经济开局良好，延续了稳中有进、向新向优的发展态势。⾯对更趋复杂严峻的国
际环境，我们以⾃⾝发展的确定性有效应对外部环境的不确定性，中国经济进⼀步彰显出强⼤
的韧性和活⼒。 4 ⽉ 28 ⽇中央政治局会议对做好下⼀步经济⼯作进⾏了系统部署，国家发展改⾰
委将认真贯彻落实党中央和国务院决策部署，⽤好⽤⾜宏观政策，发挥好存量政策和增量政策

集成效应；加强⽔⽹、新型电⽹、算⼒⽹、新⼀代通信⽹、城市地下管⽹、物流⽹等规划建
设，促进投资于物和投资于⼈紧密结合，实施好消费品以旧换新政策；加快建设现代化产业体
系，全⾯实施 “ ⼈⼯智能 +” ⾏动；持续强化改⾰创新，纵深推进全国统⼀⼤市场建设，深⼊整治
“ 内卷式 ” 竞争；提⾼能源资源安全保障⽔平，实施全⾯节约战略；切实兜牢⺠⽣底线，全⼒促
进重点群体就业；同时抓紧研究储备⼀批针对性、操作性强的政策⼯具，根据需要及时出台实
施，不断巩固经济持续稳中向好的基础。希望各位专家多多建⾔献策，为推动⾼质量发展贡献
智慧和⼒量。
国家发展改⾰委副主任王昌林，办公厅、综合司、体改司、投资司、产业司、⾼技术司、就业
司、价格司和宏观院主要负责同志参会。
本⽂来源：国家发展改⾰委
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

---
## Document 713: 韓国・５月インフレ率は前年比＋3.1％と約２年ぶりの伸び（Asia Weekly） ～アジア新興国で幅広くインフレ圧力が強まる動きを確認～

Source PDF: all report pdf/韓国・５月インフレ率は前年比＋3.1％と約２年ぶりの伸び（Asia Weekly） ～アジア新興国で幅広くインフレ圧力が強まる動きを確認～.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Asia Indicators

2026 年 6 月 5 日

1/5 
韓国・５月インフレ率は前年比＋3.1％と約２年ぶりの伸び（Asia Weekly） 
～アジア新興国で幅広くインフレ圧力が強まる動きを確認～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（経済指標の振り返り） 
発表日 指標、イベントなど 結果 コンセンサス 前回 
5/31（日） （中国）5 月製造業 PMI 
5 月非製造業 PMI 
50.0 
50.1 
50.0 
- - 
50.3 
49.4 
6/1（月） （韓国）5 月輸出（前年比） 
5 月輸入（前年比） 
（中国）5 月 RatingDog 製造業 PMI 
＋53.2％ 
＋50.8％ 
51.8 
＋20.8％ 
＋22.5％ 
51.6 
＋48.0％ 
＋16.7％ 
52.2 
6/2（火） （韓国）5 月消費者物価（前年比） 
（インドネシア）5 月消費者物価（前年比） 
4 月輸出（前年比） 
4 月輸入（前年比） 
＋3.1％ 
＋3.08％ 
＋21.98％ 
＋22.49％ 
＋3.0％ 
＋2.79％ 
＋8.80％ 
＋3.25％ 
＋2.6％ 
＋2.42％ 
▲3.10％ 
＋1.51％ 
6/3（水） （オーストラリア）1-3 月実質 GDP（前年比） ＋2.5％ ＋2.6％ ＋2.5％ 
6/5（金） （フィリピン）5 月消費者物価（前年比） 
（タイ）5 月消費者物価（前年比） 
（インド）金融政策委員会（レポ金利） 
（シンガポール）4 月小売売上高（前年比） 
（台湾）5 月消費者物価（前年比） 
＋6.8％ 
＋2.79％ 
5.25％ 
＋5.4％ 
＋2.2％ 
＋7.5％ 
＋3.10％ 
5.25％ 
- - 
＋2.1％ 
＋7.2％ 
＋2.89％ 
5.25％ 
＋4.6％ 
＋1.7％ 
（注）コンセンサスは Bloomberg 及び THOMSON REUTERS 調査。灰色で囲んでいる指標は本レポートで解説を行っています。 
[韓国]～５月インフレ率は前年比＋3.1％と約２年ぶりの高い伸びに加速、幅広くインフレ圧力が強まる～ 
１日に発表された５月の輸出額は前年同月比＋53.2％となり、前月（同＋48.0％）から伸びが加
速した。 当研究所が試算した季節調整値に基づく前月比も７ヵ月連続の増加となっており、 単月ベ
ースの輸出額は過去最高を更新している。 財別では、 中東情勢の緊迫化に伴う供給混乱の影響に加
え、米国の関税措置の影響も重なり、主力輸出品である自動車は下振れした。しかし、世界的なＡ
Ｉ（人工知能）関連投資の拡大を背景に、半導体やコンピュータ関連の輸出は大幅に増加している
ほか、原油価格の高止まりも影響して石油製品の輸出も大きく押し上げられた。国・地域別では、
中東向けは頭打ちとなったものの、 最大の輸出先である中国向けが堅調に推移したほか、 米国向け
も大幅な増加が続いている。一方、輸入額は前年同月比＋20.8％となり、前月（同＋16.7％）から

### Page 2

2/5 
伸びが加速した。前月比も６ヵ月連続で増加しており、持ち直しの動きが続いている。財別では、
原油高を反映して原油や石油製品関連の輸入額が押し上げられたほか、 輸出の堅調さを背景に素材
や部材関連の輸入も拡大している。その結果、貿易収支は＋269.49 億ドルと前月（＋237.55 億ド
ル）から黒字幅が拡大した。 
２日に発表された５月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋3.1％と中銀目標 （２％） を上回り、 前月 （同
＋2.6％） から加速して2024 年３月以来の高い伸びとなった。 前月比は＋0.46％と前月 （同＋0.48％）
からわずかに鈍化したものの、 中東情勢の緊迫化を受けた原油高を背景にエネルギー価格の上昇が
続いているほか、 穀物を中心とする食料品価格の下落にも一服感がみられ、 生活必需品を中心に物
価上昇圧力が強まっている。なお、食料品とエネルギーを除いたコアインフレ率も前年同月比＋
2.5％と中銀目標を上回り、 前月 （同＋2.2％） から加速して2024 年２月以来の高い伸びとなった。
前月比も＋0.51％と前月（同＋0.35％）から上昇ペースが加速しており、エネルギー価格の上昇を
反映した輸送コストの増加に加え、 金融市場におけるウォン安の進展を受けた輸入インフレも重な
り、幅広い財で価格上昇圧力が強まる動きがみられる。さらに、価格転嫁の進展を背景に一部のサ
ービス価格にも上昇の動きがみられるなど、全般的にインフレ圧力が強まっている。

[インドネシア]～補助金による燃料価格抑制にもかかわらず、物価上昇圧力は着実に広がる～ 
２日に発表された５月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋3.08％と、 中銀目標 （2.5±１％） のレンジ内
で推移しているものの、前月（同＋2.42％）から伸びが加速した。前月比も＋0.28％と前月（同＋
0.13％）から上昇ペースが加速しており、生鮮品をはじめとする食料品価格の上昇に加え、中東情
勢の緊迫化を受けた原油高の影響もみられる。 政府は補助金政策によりガソリンや軽油などの販売
価格を抑制している一方、 産業向けを中心にエネルギー価格は上昇しており、 生活必需品を中心と
した物価上昇圧力が強まっている。 なお、 食料品とエネルギーを除いたコアインフレ率は前年同月
比＋2.59％と、総合インフレ率と同様に目標レンジ内で推移しているものの、前月（同＋2.44％）
から加速し、３ヵ月ぶりの高い伸びとなった。前月比は＋0.22％と前月（同＋0.23％）からわずか
に鈍化したものの、 エネルギー価格の上昇を反映した輸送コストの増加に加え、 金融市場における
ルピア安を背景とする輸入インフレも重なり、幅広い財で価格上昇圧力が強まる動きがみられる。
一方、サービス価格の上昇ペースは比較的抑制されているものの、価格転嫁の動きが広がるなか、
インフレ圧力は幅広い分野でくすぶっていることが確認される。 
図 1 KR 貿易動向の推移        図 2 KR インフレ率の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成  （出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 3

3/5 
同日に発表された４月の輸出額は前年同月比＋21.98％となり、 前月 （同▲3.10％） から２ヵ月ぶ
りに前年比プラスへ転じた。 当研究所が試算した季節調整値ベースの前月比も２ヵ月ぶりの増加と
なり、中期的な基調も拡大傾向へ転じるなど、持ち直しの動きをみせている。財別にみると、中東
情勢の緊迫化による供給懸念の高まりを受けて原油輸出を抑制する動きがみられたものの、 価格上
昇を背景に石油製品や天然ガスの輸出額は押し上げられた。 また、 原油以外の鉱物資源関連も堅調
に推移したほか、 パーム油などの農産品や製造業関連の輸出も増加している。 一方の輸入額は前年
同月比＋22.49％となり、 前月 （同＋1.51％） から伸びが大幅に加速した。 当研究所の試算による前
月比も２ヵ月ぶりの増加となり、 中期的な基調も拡大傾向へ転じるなど、 持ち直しの動きをみせて
いる。 財別では、 原油高を反映して原油や天然ガス関連の輸入額が大きく押し上げられた。 さらに、
食料品や化学製品に加え、 電気機械など幅広い分野で輸入拡大の動きが確認されている。 その結果、
貿易収支は＋0.89 億ドルとなり、前月（＋33.21 億ドル）から黒字幅が大幅に縮小した。

[台湾]～エネルギー価格の上昇一服も､財・サービス全般的にインフレ圧力が強まる動き～ 
５日に発表された５月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋2.2％となり、 前月 （同＋1.7％） から加速し、
2025 年３月以来の高い伸びとなった。 前月比は＋0.19％と前月 （同＋0.78％） から伸びが鈍化して
おり、 中東情勢の緊迫化を背景とする原油高を受けたエネルギー価格の上昇は一服する一方、 生鮮
品を中心とする食料品価格は上昇が続いており、生活必需品の価格動向はまちまちとなっている。
なお、生鮮食料品とエネルギーを除くコアインフレ率は前年同月比＋ 2.12％となり、前月（同＋
1.90％）から加速して３ヵ月ぶりの高い伸びとなった。前月比は＋0.13％と前月（同＋0.52％）か
ら伸びは鈍化したものの、 エネルギー価格上昇に伴う輸送コストの押し上げを背景に、 幅広い財価
格に上昇圧力がかかる動きがみられる。 さらに、 価格転嫁の進展を反映してサービス価格も上昇し
ており、財・サービスの双方でインフレ圧力が強まっている様子がうかがえる。 
図 3 ID インフレ率の推移       図 4 ID 貿易動向の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成  （出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 4

4/5

[タイ]～生活必需品の物価上昇は一服も、幅広く財・サービス全般でインフレ圧力が強まる動き～ 
５日に発表された５月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋2.79％となり、前月（同＋2.89％）から鈍化
し、中銀目標（２±１％）のレンジ内で推移している。前月比は＋0.17％と前月（同＋2.75％）か
ら伸びが鈍化しており、 中東情勢の緊迫化を背景とする原油高を受けたエネルギー価格の上昇が一
服する一方、 生鮮品を中心とする食料品価格も下落しており、 生活必需品を中心としたインフレ圧
力の後退が影響したとみられる。一方、 食料品とエネルギーを除くコアインフレ率は前年同月比＋
0.92％となり、前月（同＋0.83％）から加速したものの、引き続き中銀目標レンジの下限を下回っ
て推移している。前月比は＋0.27％と前月（同＋0.41％）から伸びは鈍化したものの、エネルギー
価格上昇に伴う輸送コストの押し上げに加え、 金融市場におけるバーツ安を背景とする輸入インフ
レ圧力も重なり、幅広い財価格の上昇につながっている。さらに、価格転嫁の動きを反映してサー
ビス価格にも上昇圧力が残るなど、 財・サービスの双方で基調的なインフレ圧力が強まる動きがみ
られる。

[フィリピン]～生活必需品で物価上昇一服も､幅広い財・サービスで物価上昇圧力が強まる動き～ 
５日に発表された５月の消費者物価は前年同月比＋6.8％となり、前月（同＋7.2％）から鈍化し
たものの、３ヵ月連続で中銀目標（２～４％）の上限を上回って推移している。前月比は▲0.51％
と前月（同＋2.63％）から 12 ヵ月ぶりの下落に転じた。中東情勢の緊迫化を背景とする原油高を
受けたエネルギー価格の上昇に一服感がみられるほか、 生鮮品や穀物など食料品価格の上昇も落ち
着いており、生活必需品を中心としたインフレ圧力の後退が影響したとみられる。一方、食料品と
図 5 TW インフレ率の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成   
図 6 TH インフレ率の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 5

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
5/5 
エネルギーを除くコアインフレ率は前年同月比＋4.1％となり、前月（同＋3.9％）から加速したほ
か、中銀目標レンジの上限を上回り、2023 年 12 月以来の高い伸びとなった。前月比は＋0.30％と
前月（同＋0.84％）から伸びは鈍化したものの、エネルギー価格上昇による輸送コストの押し上げ
に加え、 金融市場でのペソ安進行に伴う輸入インフレ圧力も重なり、 幅広い財価格の上昇につなが
っている。さらに、サービス価格にも上昇圧力が及んでおり、供給ショックの影響が広範囲に波及
している様子がうかがえる。

[シンガポール]～高額品や耐久消費財で需要一服も､日用品や生活必需品の需要は持ち直しが続く～ 
５日に発表された４月の小売売上高は前年同月比＋5.4％となり、前月（同＋4.6％）から伸びが
加速した。前月比は＋0.31％と前月（同＋3.41％）から２ヵ月連続の増加となっており、中期的な
基調も拡大傾向に転じるなど、 持ち直しの動きが続いている。同国では月ごとの自動車販売の振れ
が大きく、 小売全体の動向を左右する傾向がある。 当月の自動車販売は前月比▲0.50％と、 前月 （同
＋6.12％）の増加の反動から２ヵ月ぶりの減少に転じた。一方、自動車を除くベースでは前月比＋
0.45％と前月（同＋2.95％）から２ヵ月連続で増加しており、中期的な基調も拡大傾向に転じるな
ど、基調的な需要の持ち直しが続いている。財別では、宝飾品やコンピュータ関連などの高額品の
ほか、 家具など耐久消費財への需要に下押し圧力がかかっているものの、 日用品や生活必需品への
需要は堅調に推移している。 また、 娯楽関連などの余暇消費にも持ち直しの動きが確認されている。

以 上 
図 7 PH インフレ率の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成   
図 8 SG 小売売上高の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成
