# Financial Report Source 07

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 220: AI･半導体は韓国経済の救世主となるか ～成長のエンジンだが､｢K字型経済｣の元凶にも､持続可能な成長につなげられるか～

Source PDF: all report pdf/AI･半導体は韓国経済の救世主となるか ～成長のエンジンだが､｢K字型経済｣の元凶にも､持続可能な成長につなげられるか～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-07-01
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Asia Trends

2026 年 7 月 1 日

1/2 
AI･半導体は韓国経済の救世主となるか 
～成長のエンジンだが､｢K 字型経済｣の元凶にも､持続可能な成長につなげられるか～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（要旨） 
○ 韓国の主要株価指数（KOSPI）はＡＩ・半導体関連株を中心に活況を呈している。 一方、個人
投資家の海外資産投資拡大がウォン安圧力を強めており、株高・通貨安という対照的な動き
が生じている。 当局はＮＤＦ取引監視強化でウォン安阻止を図るが、 こうした対応がMSCI に
よる「新興国」区分据え置きの一因となっている。景気・物価・ウォン安対策への不満から
李在明政権の支持率は急落している。 
○ 世界的なＡＩ・半導体投資の活発化は同国経済の追い風となり、６月の輸出額は過去最大と
なり、なかでも半導体輸出は前年比で約３倍に拡大した。政府は、サムスン電子とＳＫハイ
ニックスによる南西部への計800 兆ウォン規模の投資を柱とするＡＩ・半導体新産業戦略を
発表した。同地域指定には首都圏一極集中是正という政権公約も影響しているが、与党地盤
への「我田引水」との批判や、電力・水・物流・労働力等の供給制約への懸念もある。 
○ 韓国経済はＡＩ・半導体関連とそれ以外で明暗が分かれる「Ｋ字型」の様相を強めており、
KOSPI 時価総額の約５割をサムスン電子・ＳＫハイニックス２社が占めるため、株価変動が
大きく、サーキットブレーカー発動も頻発している。ＡＩ・半導体が成長エンジンである一
方、その恩恵を内需拡大へ波及させられるかが政権の課題となっている。

韓 国 金 融 市 場で は 、 主 要 株 価 指 数
（KOSPI） が一時最高値を更新するなど活
況を呈している。世界的なＡＩ（人工知
能） ・ 半導体関連投資の活発な動きを追い
風に、時価総額上位の半導体関連株の上
昇が相場をけん引している。 同国ではこ
こ数年、株式市場改革が進められてきた
ことも株価上昇を後押ししている。 
若年層を中心とする個人投資家は外国
株など海外資産への投資を拡大 させてお
図 1 ウォン相場(対ドル)と主要株価指数の推移

（出所）LSEG より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 2

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
2/2 
り、 ウォン安圧力を強める一因となるなど、 株価と通貨が対照的な動きをみせている（図１）。 当局
はウォン安阻止に向けて、ＮＤＦ（ノン・デリバラブル・フォワード）取引の監視を強化する方針
を明らかにした。こうした当局の対応は、指数算出会社であるMSCIが同国の市場区分を「新興国」
に据え置く一因となっている。直近の世論調査では、 景気動向や物価対策、 ウォン安対策の不満が、
李在明 （イ ・ ジェミョン） 政権への支持率が急落する要因となるなど、政権は苦境に直面している。 
しかし、金融市場の活況をもたらして
いる世界的なＡＩ・半導体関連投資の旺
盛な動きは、同国経済にとって追い風と
なっていることは明らかである。６月の
輸出額は前年同月比＋70.9％と 1978 年
10 月以来の高い伸びとなるなど急拡大
し、単月ベースの輸出額も過去最高を更
新した（図２）。 半導体の輸出額は前年比
で約３倍となるなど、足元の輸出急拡大
の動きをけん引している。 
李大統領は６月29 日、ＡＩと半導体を
軸とする新産業戦略を発表した。 具体的には、この分野を主導するサムスン電子とＳＫハイニック
スが同国南西部に計800 兆ウォン規模を投資し、各々２ヵ所の半導体製造拠点を新設することを明
らかにした。また、政府も 2029 年までにＡＩデータセンター向けに 550 兆ウォンを投資するとと
もに、2035 年までに計1,000 兆ウォン超の投資を目指す方針を示している。 
李政権が同国南西部をＡＩ・半導体のクラスターに指定した背景には、 韓国経済が首都ソウルへ
の一極集中が進むなか、 政権公約に地域格差の是正による経済の活性化を目指したことも影響して
いる。足元では、半導体関連産業はソウル近郊に集積しており、これが分散されることは関連イン
フラのボトルネックの緩和につながるとの見方もある。 一方で、 クラスターの拠点とされる光州市
や全羅南道は与党・共に民主党が一貫して地盤としてきたため、計画そのものが「我田引水」であ
るとの批判もある。さらに、半導体クラスターの建設には膨大な電力と水、高度な物流、充実した
サプライヤー網、 高度で熟練した労働力が必要であり、 これらの供給が需要に見合う形で拡大しな
い可能性もある。とはいえ、世界的にＡＩ・半導体に対する投資が活発化するなか、その供給拡大
に向けた先行投資に舵を切る意義は小さくない。 
その一方、足元の韓国経済はＡＩ・半導体関連とそれ以外との差が歴然とする「Ｋ字型」の様相
を強めており、 輸出にもそうした動きがみられる。 こうした事情は、KOSPIの構成銘柄すべての時価
総額に対して、 サムスン電子とＳＫハイニックスの２社の時価総額が約５割を占めていることにも
現れている。 その結果、 ２社の株価の動きにKOSPIが大きく左右され、 過去数ヵ月にわたって度々サ
ーキットブレーカーが発動する事態に発展している。ＡＩ・半導体関連は、引き続き韓国経済の成
長の主要エンジンとなることが期待される一方、その恩恵が、個人消費をはじめとする内需の持続
的な拡大へと波及するかどうか、 政権の舵取りは重要さを増している。         以 上 
図 2 輸出額(季節調整値)の推移

（出所）CEIC より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成, 季節調整値は当社試算

---
## Document 252: Cliff Notes_ on the minds of policy makers (2026-07-14)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Cliff Notes_ on the minds of policy makers (2026-07-14).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-07-14
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#cliffnotes #rba #australia #inflation #us #fomc #ecb #aud #usd
Cliff Notes: on the minds of policy makers
By Elliot Clarke, Ryan Wells&Illiana Jain
11:28 July 03 2026 Share
Key insights from the week that was.
This week’s RBA minutes provided more colour around the Monetary Policy Board’s (MPB) June
deliberations. Overall, the MPB views the economy as “operating with excess demand and widespread
inflationary pressures”. On the domestic front, there were “somewhat differing views” among MPB

members regarding the extent of current capacity pressures, but they are nonetheless seen as
elevated and a risk to the normalisation of inflation towards target. On the Middle East conflict, the

### Page 2

MPB welcomed progress towards a resolution but still viewed the balance of risks as firmly skewed to
the upside for inflation and the downside for growth. As such, “increasing the cash rate target” will be
considered if required.
Last week’s speech from Deputy Governor Hauser shed more light on the RBA’s thinking on the
relationship between inflation and unemployment. The main takeaway is that inflation tends to be more
sensitive when the economy is already tight; but equally, that the policy trade-off in such a situation

allows more scope to focus on bringing inflation down without a large cost to employment. These
judgements underscore the RBA’s successive rate hikes earlier in the year and their subsequent
decision to pause and assess in June.
The RBA is also closely monitoring trends in the housing market and the implications for wealth and
consumption. Cotality’s latest home value index fell 0.4% in June, Sydney and Melbourne’s correction
deepening as price growth slowed from a higher base across the smaller capitals. Together with signs

of slowing credit growth, evidence that the RBA’s rate hikes and sentiment are weighing on the market
is mounting. Westpac is forecasting further house price declines through the remainder of the year,
though strong population growth and tight supply will limit their scale.
Before moving offshore, a final note on trade. The goods trade balance surprised materially to the
downside in May, flipping from a surplus of $1.4bn to a deficit of $3.0bn, the largest in over a decade.

Volatility in gold flows was one of the chief culprits, accentuated by a surprisingly large fall in iron ore
exports and a solid lift in car imports (i.e. EVs). Imports of equipment related to the data centre build-
out have moderated but are still well above historical norms. Expect continued volatility over the
coming year(s).
Over in the US, nonfarm payrolls disappointed in June, with only 57k jobs created and April/May
revised down by a combined 74k. The three-month average is now 111k versus 164k in May, though

June’s result still suggests labour demand is at least keeping pace with supply. Household survey
employment is materially weaker, however, declining 507k in June and averaging a loss of 195k jobs
per month over the past three. Further, continuing the trend of the past 18 months, the participation
rate fell to 61.5% in June; had participation held steady since January 2025, the unemployment rate
would now be above 5%, not the reported 4.2%. Taken together, these outcomes imply the labour

market is most likely marking time. That said, the downside risks the household survey allude to are
worth close attention.
Also consistent with the FOMC becoming less concerned with inflation in coming months was the latest
ISM manufacturing report. Most notably, the prices component fell 9.1pts to 73, signalling a turn in
upstream price pressures. Together with the decline in oil benchmarks in recent weeks and the
available detail of both the CPI and PPI, which have offered little evidence of material secondary

inflation effects from the Middle East conflict, this moderation should alleviate concerns amongst the
FOMC that a sustained re-acceleration in consumer inflation is a probable risk.
The preliminary release for June Euro Area inflation was also supportive of an increasingly benign
inflation outlook, prices falling 0.1% versus a 0.1% expected gain. The improvement was broad based
too, annual headline inflation moderating to 2.8%yr from 3.2%yr and core inflation to 2.4%yr from

### Page 3

Related articles
2.6%yr. Importantly, this was achieved while the labour market remains historically tight.
FOMC Chair Kevin Warsh picked up on this improvement in inflation prospects at the ECB’s Sintra
Forum on Central Banking, highlighting that inflation expectations and risks "have come down" in
recent weeks. Admittedly he is focused on the US but, per the Euro Area data above, the narrative is
broadly true for developed economies across the northern hemisphere. The keynote panel at the

conference also discussed several other important topics including the need for greater flexibility and
timeliness when conducting monetary policy, how AI advances are being factored into decision making
and the importance of safeguarding financial stability.
Finally to Asia where the Q2 Tankan was received positively, participants focusing on the increase in
large manufacturer sentiment from 17 to 22. Other outcomes were less positive, however. Smaller

manufacturers are more cautious, as are service firms. R&D expectations were also revised down, and
profitability and labour market indicators came under pressure. Overall, the survey suggests the BoJ
needs to keep evolving risks in mind as they continue to normalise policy.
Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 4

Cliff Notes: testing conditions
July 10 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Ryan Wells & Illiana Jain
#cliffnotes

### Page 5

Cliff Notes: patience is a virtue
June 26 2026 • 5 mins
By Elliot Clarke , Ryan Wells & Illiana Jain
Cliff Notes: policy matters
June 19 2026 • 5 mins
#cliffnotes
By Elliot Clarke , Ryan Wells , Illiana Jain &1 more
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
Browse topics

### Page 6

#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags

### Page 7

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 8

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 9

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 10

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 11

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 272: Energy shock_ Dashboard 2026 vs. 2022 - Eurozone Special Issue (June 2026 data) (2026-07-10)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Energy shock_ Dashboard 2026 vs. 2022 - Eurozone Special Issue (June 2026 data) (2026-07-10).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-07-10
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Energy shock: Dashboard 2026 vs. 2022
Special update: June 2026 Eurozone data
JULY 2026

### Page 2

Energy shock: Dashboard 2026 vs. 2022
7/10/2026 2
This special issue concerns the update of Eurozone data.
Will the same causes produce the same effects? In other words, will the war in Iran and the resulting surge in oil and
gas prices lead to an inflationary shock comparable to that seen in 2022? Will their negative effects on growth be the
same as those of the war in Ukraine and the subsequent energy shock?
We have selected a set of indicators to track the impact of this new energy shock — caused by the war in the Middle

East — on activity and prices in the Eurozone, the United States, oil and gas markets and emerging countries, and to see
how much the current situation resembles that of 2022 at the outbreak of the conflict in Ukraine.
This dashboard features charts and comments that will be updated on a monthly basis for as long as necessary.
The expectation that the surge in inflation, driven by this new energy shock, would be more moderate than in 2022
(with demand being less dynamic and supply less constrained) is confirmed. However, following the Memorandum of

Understanding signed in mid-June between the United States and Iran, inflationary risk has eased but has not
disappeared. This MoU has reduced the risk of a severe escalation of the conflict, but the resurgence of tensions and
military strikes in mid-July shows that the situation is far from resolved.
When we compare the impact on economic activity of the current energy shock with that of 2022 (following the conflict
in Ukraine), the favorable point in 2026, for the euro area, is the business climate in the manufacturing sector, which is

holding up better than in 2022. Consumer confidence has fallen sharply but to a lesser extent in 2026 than in 2022. As
for the deterioration in the business climate in the services sector, it was immediate in 2026, whereas it occurred with a
few months' delay in 2022.
ECONOMIC RESEARCH
Change since m = 0 = February 2026 / February 2022. Unit: inflation change in percentage point, point for confidence surveys.
Source: European Commission, Macrobond, BNP Paribas

-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
MidEast war
Ukraine war
-8
-7
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
MidEast war
Ukraine war
June 2026: Business confidence in the services
sector picks up
June 2026: Limited correction of business
confidence in the manufacturing sector
Eurozone: Manufacturing PMI Eurozone: Services PMI

### Page 3

-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
MidEast war
Ukraine war
-8
-7
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
MidEast war
Ukraine war
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
Input prices-MidEast war
Outpout prices-MidEast war
Input prices-Ukraine war
Output prices-Ukraine war
-20
-18
-16
-14
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
MidEast war
Ukraine war
June 2026: Business confidence in the services
sector picks up
June 2026: Limited correction of business
confidence in the manufacturing sector
June 2026: Moderation of price pressures June 2026: Small improvement in supply

tensions (slightly shorter delivery times)
June 2026: Further improvement in consumer
confidence
June 2026: End of the energy-led rise in
inflation?
Eurozone: The drop in oil prices drives inflation in its wake, tempers inflationary
pressures and supports confidence surveys
10/07/2026 3
We have selected two inflation measures (with and without energy) and six survey indicators: business confidence, as
measured by the PMIs in the manufacturing and services sectors; the “input prices” and “output prices" components of the

composite PMI (in order to identify direct inflationary pressures); the “suppliers’ delivery times” component of the
manufacturing PMI (a direct indicator of possible supply difficulties and supply-demand imbalance, and therefore, indirectly,
of inflationary pressures in the making); household confidence, as reflected in its “assessment of financial situation in the
next 12 months” component (in order to capture the impact of inflation on purchasing power). The trends in each of these

indicators are observed relative to month m=0, corresponding to the start of the conflict. Each line does not represent the
level of the indicator, but its cumulative variation compared to month m=0.
The assessment of the June data is positive and reinforces the encouraging signals from May data. Symmetrically to its rise,
which was largely driven by the "energy" component, inflation has significantly receded due to the marked drop in oil prices
in June. According to PMI business climate surveys, inflationary pressures have also eased. Delivery times are also benefiting

from the supportive impact of the MoU (signed in mid-June between the United States and Iran) and are improving slightly.
The business climate in the manufacturing sector has slipped again but marginally. Business confidence in the services
sector and consumer confidence continue to recover. The expected improvement due to the reduced risk of a severe
escalation of the conflict in Iran is materializing. It remains to be seen whether it will withstand the persistence of

uncertainties and the resurgence of tensions in mid-July.
Source: S&P Global, Eurostat, European Commission, Macrobond, BNP Paribas
ECONOMIC RESEARCH
Change since m = 0 = February 2026 / February 2022. Unit: inflation change in percentage point, point for confidence surveys.
Eurozone: Manufacturing PMI
Eurozone: Consumer confidence - Financial situation
over the next 12 months
Eurozone: Services PMI
Eurozone: Composite PMI - Input and output prices

-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Inflation-MidEast war
Inflation excl. NRJ-MidEast war
Inflation-Ukraine war
Inflation excl. NRJ-Ukraine war
Eurozone: Inflation (incl. & excl. Energy)
Eurozone: Manufacturing PMI - Suppliers' delivery times

### Page 4

ECONOMIC RESEARCH
4
7/10/2026ECONOMIC RESEARCH

### Page 5

ECONOMIC RESEARCH
57/10/2026ECONOMIC RESEARCH

---
## Document 287: FX Daily_ Dollar upside risks are rising rapidly

Source PDF: all report pdf/FX Daily_ Dollar upside risks are rising rapidly.pdf
Report source: ING Think
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Article | 14 July 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  14 July 2026   FX
FX Daily: Dollar upside risks are rising
rapidly
Crude has jumped, but still isn’t fully pricing in a fully-fledged new supply
shock, meaning short-term risks remain on the upside for the dollar. So
far, the rate differential is keeping EUR/USD afloat thanks to hawkish
repricing of ECB expectations alongside the Fed’s, but further energy
price increases should overcome rates as a primary driver

We have published our monthly update of FX views and forecasts: FX Talking – Dancing
in the dark
USD: Room to rally
Short-term momentum is swinging back in favour of the dollar as the FX market is finally
starting to take the Gulf re-escalation more seriously. Still, both oil (Brent is at $84/bl this
morning) and the USD are showing reluctance to fully price back in another supply shock.
That's despite the US reimposing a blockade in the Strait of Hormuz and oil inventories at

worryingly low levels. Overall US crude inventories (commercial+SPR) were 730.8m barrels as
of 3 July, the lowest since 1984.
This positive but contained USD reaction does seem a déjà vu of this spring. But conditions are

### Page 2

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 14 July 2026 2
different now. Reduced Fed guidance after a hawkish shift in June means allowing markets to
speculate more aggressively on Fed tightening. Markets are now pricing in a roughly 50%
chance of a hike in July, and 43bp by year-end.
Fedspeak remains crucial at this stage: yesterday, Chris Waller warned a hike may be needed
in the short term if core inflation stays hot. Chair Kevin Warsh starts his first House testimony

today, but he may follow his low-guidance approach and give little away. Barr, Goolsbee, Cook
and Bowman are all speaking today.
Today's US June CPI release shouldn't severely dent markets' hawkish tendency. Headline
should fall month-on-month due to lower energy prices, but core at 0.2% MoM isn't enough to
dispel concerns about second-round effects.
Our call for the remainder of the year remains USD negative, primarily resting on another de-
escalation and dovish Fed view. But risks, especially in the near-term, are clearly shifting to the

bullish side for the greenback, with 102.0 potentially being reached rapidly in DXY if the
Hormuz blockade continues.
Francesco Pesole
EUR: Helped by rates
The EUR:USD short-term rate differential is – for now – helping to keep EUR/USD afloat in this
Gulf re-escalation. The two-year swap rate gap has re-tightened around 15bp since the start of
July, primarily because the rebound in oil prices happened at a time when ECB hike bets were
dwindling, leaving more upside room to recover for EUR front-end rates.

We aren’t convinced this rate gap can offer sustainable support to EUR/USD if energy prices
continue to rise though. Markets may find it harder to price in more than two ECB hikes by
year-end (now, 46bp) considering the less hawkish stance by ECB officials of late, and the
medium-term negative implications of an energy crisis – combined with Fed tightening – for
the EUR, tend to outweigh the positive of EUR hikes. The spike in gas prices is particularly

concerning, as it weighs on the eurozone’s terms of trade more than oil.
In a scenario where Brent returns to $90-100/bl and TTF around €55-60/MWh, a move to 1.10
becomes a tangible risk in EUR/USD.
Francesco Pesole
NZD: Best performer in Gulf re-escalation
The Kiwi dollar is the best-performing currency in the G10 since the start of this week, riding
the wave of last week’s hawkish repricing after an RBNZ rate hike. It’s a testament to how the
FX market is very keen to reward currencies that can offer flexibility on the hawkish side for

### Page 3

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 14 July 2026 3
domestic central bank pricing, not just the positive commodity exposure (like for CAD, NOK,
AUD).
Still, markets are now pricing in 60bp of tightening by year-end in New Zealand, which looks a
bit too aggressive before seeing 2Q CPI, which is released on 20 July. AUD should recover some
ground over NZD should this escalation fail to defuse.
Francesco Pesole
CEE: Risk-off puts zloty and forint on the back foot

Regional currencies, along with the broader EM space, came under pressure yesterday
following weekend headlines on the escalation of the US-Iran conflict. Risk-off sentiment and a
stronger US dollar lifted EUR/PLN and EUR/HUF, while EUR/CZK stayed broadly stable. Hawkish
CNB rhetoric should continue to cap EUR/CZK upside, leaving the koruna as the most resilient
CEE currency. EUR/HUF is again approaching the 360 mark after two days of relief, a level that

may act as resistance for many market participants. With our view of EUR/HUF in the range of
350-360 for the rest of the year, further upside should be limited.
By contrast, we still see EUR/PLN as vulnerable to further upside. From a rates perspective,
despite yesterday’s PLN sell-off, the rate differential versus the euro is broadly unchanged and
still points in our models to levels around 4.340. If markets were to price in the full rate cut
expected this year, it would open the door to a move above that level. Today’s regional

### Page 4

This publication has been prepared by the Economic and Financial Analysis Division of ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) solely for
information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.

---
## Document 290: German Investment Plans_ Reasons to Stay Optimistic (2026-06-25)

Source PDF: all report pdf/German Investment Plans_ Reasons to Stay Optimistic (2026-06-25).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-06-25
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Paris, 25 June 2026

EcoFlash

German Investment Plans: Reasons to Stay Optimistic 
Over a year has passed since the German government announced substantial investment plans in defence and infrastructure. As we 
assess the situation in  mid-2026, the implementation of these plans  is progressing as we had anticipated. However, the current 
impact of these investments on growth is proving to be more subdued than expected (notably because a portion of the infrastructure 
funds has been used to finance government current expenditure). Nonetheless, the rebound in industrial orders is becoming evident, 
and the increase in intra-European trade directed towards Germany indicates that a positive momentum is developing. 
The Government is implementing its investment plans, but a faster pace is required 
In line with our projections at the start of the year ( see our analysis), federal budget investment spending has reached 33% of its annual target, while 
defence spending stands at 29%, equating to 0.5% and 0.7% of GDP, respectively, based on the May figures released on 23 June by the Ministry of 
Finance. In addition to these federal  budget items, off-budget spending has also seen a slight increase. The latter can be gauged through the gross 
borrowing accumulated since the start of the year for the Bundeswehr fund and the Special Fund for Infrastructure and Climate Neutrality (SVIK), which 
have reached 38% of their respective annual targets. 
However, for the government to meet its military spending objective of 3.5% of GDP in 2026 (up from 2.6% in 2025)1, an acceleration in implementation 
is essential. A similar situation exists in the infrastructure side, where the 2025 target was missed by EUR 13 billion. 
These plans aim to promote long-term economic growth, but the current level of spending does not align with this objective. 
(i) Despite the increase in infrastructure spending, two German economic institutes (Ifo and IW), revealed that, in 2025, the SVIK largely financed current 
operating expenditure falling under the federal budget, rather than long-term investments. Such a reallocation has no positive impact on growth, even 
in the short term, as it finances expenditures that would in any case have been included in the federal budget. 
(ii) The increase in defence spending has mainly been used to strengthen conventional military equipment and rebuild ammunition stockpiles over recent 
years, an effort that is essential given current security threats. However, the share allocated to new technologies has consequently declined. It is 
worth noting that the share devoted to R&D is increasing, albeit only gradually. Nonetheless, procurement processes have commenced, and these 
investments are expected to grow in the coming years. 
(iii) The obstacles that have been accumulated – particularly those related to higher 
energy prices and the relatively low level of innovation in public investment – are 
dragging down the fiscal multiplier, bringing it below 1. This will hinder the plans’ 
impact on economic activity in both the short and long term. 
A dynamic advantage for German industry and intra-European trade 
This caution should not overshadow the initial positive indicators generated by the 
plans. In the industrial sector, the rebound in orders noted at the start of the year 
has now been confirmed (+2.8% YTD y/y in April) (see our analysis ). Moreover, 
exports from other European countries to Germany have increased (+2.2% 
year-on-year between January and April), thereby bolstering their growth. 
In our view, the repercussions of the Middle -East conflict are unlikely to disrupt 
these favourable trends (see our analysis): we anticipate real GDP growth of +0.8% 
in 2026 and +1.1 % in 2027. While caution is still advisable  for the short -term 
outlook, progress in U.S.-Iran negotiations and the gradual reopening of the Strait 
of Hormuz (see our analysis) reinforce this view.

Lucie BARETTE 
Europe Economist covering Germany, Italy and Spain 
lucie.barette@bnpparibas.com

1 These figures include certain parallel expenditures (infrastructure, cyber-defence, military satellites, etc.). Excluding those additional costs, the expected figure is 2.8% in 2026, 
following 2.4% in 2025. 
Investment Plan Disbursements: Scaling Up Progressively

Sources: Bundesfinanzministerium, BNP Paribas

---
## Document 313: Miễn room tín dụng cho 18 dự án trọng điểm (2026-06-24)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Miễn room tín dụng cho 18 dự án trọng điểm (2026-06-24).pdf
Report source: KBSV (Thematic)
Date: 2026-06-24
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1

F I R S T  T O  M A R K E T

Miễn room tín dụng cho 18 dự 
án trọng điểm

Cơ chế tín dụng đặc thù cho 18 dự án trọng điểm của Vingroup, Sun Group và Masterise 
— Ngày 22/6/2026, NHNN ban hành Công văn số 5386/NHNN-TD hướng dẫn các NHTM 
cấp tín dụng cho 18 dự án trọng điểm theo kiến nghị của Vingroup, Sun Group và 
Masterise. Theo đó, NHNN cho phép các NHTM loại trừ dư phần nợ cấp cho các dự án 
này khỏi hạn mức tăng trưởng tín dụng và có thể xem xét nới hạn mức tín dụng được 
cấp cho một hoặc nhóm khách hàng có liên quan (theo Quyết định 09/2024/QĐ-TTg). 
— Danh mục dự án được đề xuất là các dự án hạ tầng giao thông chiến lược trong lĩnh vực 
hàng không, đường sắt tốc độ cao, và các công trình phục vụ APEC. Tổng vốn huy động 
của nhóm dự án này là 752.1 nghìn tỷ đồng, thực hiện trong giai đoạn 2026-2033, trong 
đó khoảng 85% tổng vốn huy động dự kiến sẽ được giải ngân trong 3 năm đầu.  
— Với giả định tăng trưởng tín dụng toàn hệ thống năm 2026 đạt 15% (tương đương tổng 
dư nợ tín dụng đạt 21,384 nghìn tỷ đồng), quy mô vay vốn của nhóm dự án dự kiến sẽ 
chiếm khoảng 1% tổng dư nợ tín dụng cho mỗi năm trong giai đoạn 2026-2028, ước 
tính đóng góp vào tăng trưởng tín dụng thêm khoảng 0.5-1%/năm trong giai đoạn này.  
— Theo KBSV, quyết định này của NHNN phản ánh: 
(1) Cơ chế hỗ trợ tín dụng của NHNN đang mang tính chọn lọc khi mức đóng góp 
vào tăng trưởng tín dụng toàn hệ thống chỉ ở mức vừa phải, qua đó giúp khơi 
thông nguồn vốn cho các dự án trọng điểm mà không làm thay đổi đáng kể 
định hướng điều hành tín dụng chung của NHNN. 
(2) Tác động thực tế nhiều khả năng sẽ tập trung ở một số ngân hàng tham gia tài 
trợ dự án thay vì toàn hệ thống, tạo dư địa tăng trưởng tín dụng đáng kể nhưng 
đồng thời làm gia tăng mức độ tập trung tín dụng, yêu cầu các ngân hàng phải 
siết chặt khâu quản trị rủi ro.

Tác động lên mặt bằng lãi suất 
— Chúng tôi cho rằng quyết định này của NHNN sẽ tạo sức ép nhất định lên việc gia tăng 
vốn huy động của các NHTM tham gia giải ngân trực tiếp, đặc biệt khi chênh lệnh giữa 
huy động tiền gửi và dư nợ tín dụng toàn nền kinh tế tiếp tục nới rộng kể từ cuối 2025 
khiến tỷ lệ LDR thuần toàn hệ thống tăng mạnh (Biểu đồ 2).  
— Dù vậy, áp lực lên hệ thống sẽ được giảm bớt khi NHNN chủ động nâng tỷ lệ vốn ngắn 
hạn cho vay trung dài hạn từ 30% lên 40%, đồng thời cho phép tính thêm 20% tiền gửi 
KBNN vào tỷ lệ LDR (theo Thông tư 25/2026/TT-NHNN). Ngoài ra, chúng tôi cũng không 
loại trừ khả năng NHNN sẽ có thêm các chính sách hỗ trợ để bổ sung nguồn vốn cho 
vay các dự án này. Do đó, chúng tôi cho rằng mặt bằng lãi suất huy động sẽ ổn định ở 
vùng hiện tại, thậm chí có thể bắt đầu xu hướng giảm trong quý 3 nếu huy động của 
toàn hệ thống có sự cải thiện và giải ngân đầu tư công tăng mạnh.

### Page 2

2

Tác động lên thị trường chứng khoán 
Chúng tôi cho rằng Công văn số 5386/NHNN-TD  sẽ tạo tác động tích cực lên các nhóm 
ngành bao gồm: 
— Ngành ngân hàng: Tác động tích cực được kỳ vọng tập trung ở nhóm ngân hàng có 
năng lực thu xếp vốn cho các dự án hạ tầng quy mô lớn, nền tảng huy động vốn vững 
chắc và chất lượng tài sản tốt, đặc biệt là nhóm ngân hàng quốc doanh và ngân hàng 
tư nhân có vốn lớn. Ngoài ra, các ngân hàng như TCB, STB, LPB kỳ vọng cũng sẽ có lợi 
thế nhờ mối quan hệ đã được thiết lập từ trước với Vingroup. Tuy nhiên, chúng tôi 
không loại trừ rủi ro tập trung tín dụng vào một số NHTM có quan hệ gần với các chủ 
đầu tư có thể gây ảnh hưởng không nhỏ đến nguồn vốn và hiệu quả hoạt động của 
nhóm này.  
— Nhóm ngành xây lắp – vật liệu xây dựng: Cơ chế tín dụng đặc thù kỳ vọng sẽ hỗ trợ đẩy 
nhanh tiến độ triển khai và giải ngân dự án, qua đó cải thiện triển vọng doanh thu, 
backlog của các doanh nghiệp xây lắp cũng như thúc đẩy nhu cầu tiêu thụ vật liệu xây 
dựng trong các năm tới.

Biểu đồ 1. Vốn huy động của nhóm 18 dự án giai đoạn 2026-2033 và tỷ trọng trên tổng dư nợ 
tín dụng toàn hệ thống năm 2026

Nguồn: NHNN, KBSV tổng hợp 
*Giả định tăng trưởng tín dụng năm 2026 đạt 15%

Biểu đồ 2. Tỷ lệ LDR toàn hệ thống

Nguồn: NHNN, KBSV tổng hợp 
*Điều chỉnh LDR tháng 4/2026 thêm phần tín dụng của nhóm dự án trong 2026

0.98%
1.14%
0.87%
0.24%
0.13%
0.05% 0.05% 0.04%
0.0%
0.2%
0.4%
0.6%
0.8%
1.0%
1.2%
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032 2033
(nghìn tỷ đồng)
Vốn huy động % Tổng tín dụng năm 2026
90%
95%
100%
105%
110%
115%
120%

### Page 3

Hệ thống khuyến nghị

Hệ thống khuyến nghị đầu tư ngành 
(Dựa trên đánh giá triển vọng trong 6 tháng tới)  
Tích cực: 
Vượt trội hơn thị trường 
Trung lập: 
Phù hợp thị trường 
Tiêu cực: 
Kém hơn thị trường

CTCP CHỨNG KHOÁN KB VIỆT NAM (KBSV)

Trụ sở chính: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 16&17, Tháp 2, Tòa nhà Capital Place, số 29 Liễu Giai, Phường Ngọc Hà, TP Hà Nội 
Điện thoại: (+84) 24 7303 5333 - Fax: (+84) 24 3776 5928 
Chi nhánh Hà Nội: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 1&2, Tòa nhà Văn phòng, số 5 Điện Biên Phủ, Phường Ba Đình, TP Hà Nội 
Điện thoại: (+84) 24 7305 3335 - Fax: (+84) 24 3822 3131 
Chi nhánh Hồ Chí Minh: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 21, Tòa nhà Vietinbank, số 93 - 95 Hàm Nghi, Phường Sài Gòn, TP Hồ Chí Minh 
Điện thoại: (+84) 28 7303 5333 - Fax: (+84) 28 3914 1969 
Chi nhánh Sài Gòn: 
Địa chỉ: Tầng 1, Saigon Trade Center, số 37 Tôn Đức Thắng, Phường Sài Gòn, TP Hồ Chí Minh 
Điện thoại: (+84) 28 7306 3338 - Fax: (+84) 28 3910 1611

LIÊN HỆ 
Hotline: 1900 1711 
Email: info@kbsec.com.vn 
Website: www.kbsec.com.vn

---
## Document 317: Navigating shifting sands (for Private Bank only)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Navigating shifting sands (for Private Bank only).pdf
Report source: 渣打銀行 (Global Market Outlook)
Date: 2026-06-19
Pages: 35
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

WS Global CIO Office 
19 June 2026

H2 2026 
Global Market Outlook 
Navigating shifting 
sands 
Investors will have to navigate shifting 
sands across energy prices, equity 
supply, investor positioning and 
central bank policy in H2 2026. We 
expect risky assets to remain supported 
amid a soft-landing macro environment.

We remain Overweight global equities, 
with a preference for the US and Asia 
ex-Japan. US equities remain supported 
by earnings and lower oil prices following 
the US-Iran interim deal, which should 
also catalyse Asia ex-Japan equities.

Bond yields are attractive for locking 
in income; we are Overweight 
Emerging Market USD bonds. We are 
also Overweight Gold, our preferred 
diversifier, alongside core holdings in 
other major alternative strategies.



What does US-Iran interim 
deal mean for oil markets? 
Are global central banks 
overly hawkish? 
How are our quant models 
positioned?

### Page 2

01 
 Strategy 
 Investment Strategy: Navigating shifting sands 03 
 Foundation asset allocation models 05 
 Foundation: Our tactical asset allocation 06 
 Perspectives on key client questions 07 
 Asset allocation: Balancing opportunity and resilience 09

02 
 Macro overview – at a glance 
 Our macroeconomic outlook and key questions 11

03 
 Asset classes 
 Fixed income 13 
 Equity 16 
 Equity opportunistic views 18 
 Gold and crude oil 19 
 FX 20

04 
 Additional perspectives 
 Quant perspective: Reduce equity Overweight  
due to frothy valuation 
22

05 
 Performance review 
 Foundation: Asset allocation summary 24 
 Foundation+: Asset allocation summary 25 
 Market performance summary 26 
 Our key forecasts and calendar events 27 
 SC Wealth Select 28 
 Explanatory notes 31

Contents

### Page 3

Global Market Outlook 3

12m Foundation Overweights: 
• Global equities, gold 
• US, Asia ex-Japan^ equities 
• Emerging Market USD 
Opportunistic Ideas – Equities: 
• Global: MSCI World equal-
weight, high dividend^ 
• US: Communication services^ 
• Asia: Hang Seng Technology 
Index, Japan banks^ 
Top Global Sectors: 
• US: Technology, communication 
services, healthcare 
• Europe ex-UK: Financials, 
industrials^ 
• Japan: Financials^ 
• China: Technology, 
communication services 
Opportunistic Ideas – Bonds: 
• US: Treasury Inflation-protected 
Securities (TIPS), AAA CLOs, 
utility sector hybrids, US High-
yield (HY)^ 
• EU: Bank AT1s FX-hedged 
• Others: AUD corporates  
^New 
Navigating shifting sands 
• Investors will have to navigate shifting sands across energy prices, equity 
supply, investor positioning and central bank policy in H2 2026 . We expect 
risky assets to remain supported amid a soft-landing macro environment.  
• We remain Overweight global equities, with a preference for the US and Asia 
ex-Japan (AxJ). US equities remain supported by earnings and lower oil prices  
following the US-Iran interim peace deal, which should also catalyse AxJ equities. 
• Bond yields are attractive for locking in income; we are Overweight 
Emerging Market (EM) USD bonds. We are also Overweight gold, our preferred 
diversifier, alongside core holdings in other major alternative strategies. 
The shifting sands to navigate 
Global equities have gained over 12% year to date (YTD). Equities pushed higher 
as AI optimism and strong earnings growth outweighed the Middle East conflict, higher 
oil prices and bond yields , and a stronger US dollar (USD). We see room for this 
optimism to extend in H2 2026. However, we believe investors will need to be nimbler 
in H2 and be prepared to navigate market volatility centred on four key pivot points: 
1. Energy prices 
The US-Iran interim deal offers room for optimism, as an early reopening of the Strait 
of Hormuz will unlock oil and gas supply. However, we are mindful that (i) the 
agreement remains an interim one, rather than permanent, and (ii) the actual supply 
will take weeks, or even months, to fully resume, with some damaged facilities taking 
potentially years to fully resume output. Meanwhile, many countries will be keen to 
look for opportunities to rebuild reserves, thereby supporting demand. This is why we 
expect oil prices to soften, but not return to pre-crisis levels.  
2. Equity supply 
A significant US equity initial public offering (IPO) pipeline raises the risk of both short-
term over-supply and a long-term reversal of the trend of shrinking outstanding equity 
floats supporting prices. Having said that, the completion of one large IPO without 
market disruption is encouraging, and strong IPO pipelines have not held back the 
performance of major non-US markets in recent years.

1 Investment strategy and key themes

Steve Brice 
Global Chief Investment Officer 
Manpreet Gill 
Chief Investment Officer, AMEE 
Raymond Cheng 
Chief Investment Officer, North Asia

### Page 4

Global Market Outlook 4

Fig. 1 A significant US equity IPO pipeline raises the 
risk of short-term over-supply  
 Fig. 2 A resumption of Hormuz strait transit would 
stem global oil inventory drawdown 
US IPO proceeds raised by year  Global crude oil inventory changes and Hormuz strait transit

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: EIA, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

3. Investor positioning 
We enter H2 with relatively optimistic investor positioning. 
While this has started to ease, the risk of a modest pullback in 
the coming weeks remains elevated. However, our 1-3-month 
equity models and reversal indicators remain positive, 
encouraging us to buy any temporary dips. 
4. Central bank policy 
An easing of oil and gas prices should help alleviate pressure 
on central banks to tighten policy. However, further strength 
in the US job market risks limiting the room for Fed rate cuts. 
We expect the US Fed to stay on hold through year-end 2026. 
The ECB and EM central banks should face less pressure to 
tighten policy as oil prices ease, but the B oJ is expected to 
continue hiking slowly.  
Overall, we continue to expect our soft -landing macro 
scenario to persist, with a small chance of a strong growth re-
acceleration. Recession and stagflation scenarios remain 
risks, but softer energy prices following the US -Iran interim 
deal reduce the risk of these scenarios playing out. 
Extending equities optimism 
We remain Overweight global equities relative to bonds and 
cash. Within this, we stay Overweight the US and raise AxJ to 
Overweight. 
Earnings remain central to our positive view , particularly for 
US equities. Strong earnings growth helped support markets 
through H1 2026, despite many challenges. We expect this to 
ultimately be the case in H2 as well. However, (i) we expect 
the path to be more volatile, with still-optimistic investor 
positioning and the IPO supply pipeline being short -term 
challenges, and (ii) further broadening of the rally beyond 
semiconductors likely needed for gains to be sustainable. 
Our approach to US equities remains unchanged – we remain 
Overweight, and we look for routes to broaden exposure 
within technology (from semiconductors to internet and 
software sub -sectors) and beyond technology (we are 
Overweight US communication services and healthcare). 
We also raise AxJ back to Overweight. The US -Iran interim 
deal is one key catalyst behind our upgrade , given regional 
markets remain highly sensitive to oil prices. Within the region, 
we are Overweight on (i) India, which should benefit the most 
from reduced oil price risks, (ii) China, which is sensitive to 
energy prices but should also benefit from the equities 
broadening trade  – we like the China technology and 
communication services sectors – and (iii) Taiwan. 
EM bonds lead yield opportunities 
The current level of bond yields offers several opportunities to 
lock in attractive yields. An interim US -Iran deal means we 
expect US bond yields to ease modestly from current levels, 
with the benchmark 10-year yield expected to stay in the 4.25-
4.50% range over the next 3-12 months. This should also help 
the USD Index (DXY) move lower from recent range highs.  
We remain Overweight EM USD government bonds. This is 
our preferred opportunity , given its attractive yields, low 
sensitivity to big shifts in commodity prices relative to major 
EM assets and the lack of direct FX risk, unlike local-currency 
(LCY) bonds. However, we hold a preference for corporate 
and EM bonds over government bonds, with Investment -
grade (IG) and US High-yield (HY) corporate bonds as core 
holdings.  
Alternatives stay valuable diversifiers 
We remain Overweight gold. The US -Iran interim deal will 
likely remove near -term clouds stemming from concerns 
about gold sales from individual EM central banks and the 
return of correlation with US bond yields and the US D. In our 
view, long-term diversification demand from EM central banks 
remains in tact as a long -term positive driver of gold prices. 
Gold also remains an attractive hedge against some downside 
scenarios such as stagflation. 
More broadly, we continue to see a core holding to liquid and 
private alternative strategies as attractive in the context of 
building portfolio diversifiers, both in our more adverse macro 
scenarios and amid any short-lived market volatility in H2. 
0
50
100
150
200
2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
USD (bn)
Actual Estimates
5
30
-10
-5
0
5
Jul-24 Mar-25 Nov-25 Jul-26
Number of tankers
Crude oil andother
liquids build (mb/d)
Inventory draw/build
Strait of Hormuz crude tanker crossing

### Page 5

Global Market Outlook 5

The Foundation and Foundation+ models are allocations that you can use as the starting point for building a diversified 
investment portfolio. The Foundation model showcases a set of allocations focusing on traditional asset classes that are 
accessible to m ost investors, while the Foundation+ model includes allocations to private assets that may be accessible to 
investors in some jurisdictions, but not others. 
Fig. 3 Foundation asset allocation for a balanced risk profile

Fig. 4 Foundation+ asset allocation for a balanced risk profile

Fig. 5 Multi-asset income allocation for a moderate risk profile

Source: Standard Chartered

Equity 54%
North America 36%
Europe ex-UK 7%
UK 1%
Japan 3%
Asia ex-Japan 7%
Bond 36%
DM IG Government 11%
DM IG Corporate 10%
DM HY Corporate 2%
EM USD Government 6%
EM Local Ccy Government 2%
Asia USD 5%
Balanced
Cash 4%
USD Cash 4%
Gold 6%
Gold 6%
Equity 43%
North America 29%
Europe ex-UK 5%
UK 1%
Japan 2%
Asia ex-Japan 6%
Bond 29%
DM IG Government 9%
DM IG Corporate 8%
DM HY Corporate 2%
EM USD Government 5%
EM Local Ccy Government 2%
Asia USD 4%
Balanced
Cash 3%
USD Cash 3%
Alternatives 25%
Gold                                                5%
Hedge Fund Strategies                   3%
Private Equity 5%
Private Real Assets 4%
Private Debt 6%
Digital Assets                                  2%
Bonds 54%
DM IG Government 7%
DM IG Corporate 5%
US Mortgage-backed 
Securities 4%
DM HY Corporate 20%
EM HC Government 6%
EM LC Government 6%
Asia USD 6%
Hybrids 9%
Covered calls 5%
Sub financials 4%
Multi-asset 
Income
Equity 36%
Global High Dividend 24%
Global Equity 7%
Global Infrastructure 3%
Global REITs                                        2%
Cash 1%
USD Cash 1%

2 Foundation asset allocation models

### Page 6

Global Market Outlook 6

View Detail 
USD cash ▼ + Short-term safety || - Likely underperform vs major asset classes 
Bonds ▼  
DM IG Govt  ▼ + High credit quality, attractive yields || - High sensitivity to inflation, monetary policy 
DM IG Corporate  ◆ + High credit quality, improving valuations || - Expected supply, especially in the US 
DM HY Corporate  ◆ + Attractive yield, low-rate sensitivity || - Sensitive to growth and credit quality risks 
EM USD Govt  ▲ + Attractive yield, sensitive to US rates || - EM credit quality, US trade policy risks 
EM Local Ccy Govt  ◆ + Attractive yield, benefit from USD weakness || - US trade policy risks, inflation risks, FX risk 
Asia USD  ◆ + Moderate yield, low volatility || - Sensitive to China growth 
Equities ▲  
North America  ▲ + Earnings growth, AI uptrend || - US policy uncertainty, investor positioning 
Europe ex-UK  ◆ + Undemanding valuations, German fiscal spending || - US trade policy risks, oil prices 
UK  ▼ + Attractive valuations, dividend yield || - Stagflation risks, US trade policy risks 
Japan  ◆ + Reasonable valuations, rising dividends/share buybacks || - JPY strength, US trade policy 
Asia ex-Japan  ▲ + Earnings, policy support, Easing oil prices || - China growth concerns, US trade policy 
Gold ▲ + Portfolio hedge, central bank demand, falling real yields || - Resilient USD

Legends:   ▲ Overweight   | ▼ Underweight   | ◆ Core 
Source: Standard Chartered Global Investment Committee; Green = Upgrade; Red = Downgrade

Fig. 6 Performance of our Foundation Allocations*

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; *12-month performance data from 17 June 2025 to 17 June 2026, 6-month performance from 17 
December 2025 to 17 June 2026, 3-month performance from 17 March 2026 to 17 June 2026

Fig. 7 Opportunistic ideas performance

Key call Inception/open date Close date Absolute return 
Bond – open 
1-10yr TIPS bonds 10-Apr-25  5.9% 
EU bank AT1 FX-hedged 11-Dec-25  3.3% 
AAA-rated CLO 11-Dec-25  2.6% 
AUD corporate credit 19-Mar-26  2.1% 
US Utilities Corporate Hybrids  19-Mar-26  1.8% 
US HY bonds 18-Jun-26  –

Bond – closed US short duration (0-5yr) HY bonds 24-Jul-25 18-Jun-26 4.9%

Equity – open 
Hang Seng Tech 31-Oct-24  4.1% 
MSCI World Equal Weight 21-May-26  1.4% 
Global High Dividend 18-Jun-26  – 
US Communication Services 18-Jun-26  – 
Japan Banks 18-Jun-26  –

Equity – closed 
China non-financial high Div SOE - H Share 27-Mar-24 23-Apr-26 56.3% 
US Utilities 30-Oct-25 21-May-26 1.3% 
Europe Banks 11-Dec-25 23-Apr-26 6.8% 
US aerospace and defence 12-Feb-26 18-Jun-26 3.1% 
International buyback 19-Mar-26 21-May-26 5.2% 
Global Semiconductors 19-Mar-26 4-May-26 31.4% 
Gold miners 23-Apr-26 18-Jun-26 -10.4%

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered. Performance as of 18 Jun 2026

2 Foundation: Our tactical asset allocation

### Page 7

Global Market Outlook 7

Oil markets: US-Iran interim deal relief, recovery still ahead 
The recent US-Iran interim deal and oil price  retreat have reduced the acute 
geopolitical risk premium and created a more supportive backdrop for risk assets. 
This will help investors refocus on growth opportunities, especially in markets and 
sectors that benefit from lower energy costs, easing inflation pressure and resilient 
earnings momentum. 
However, it is worth noting that a ceasefire is not the same as full normalisation. The 
key question has shifted from whether a de-escalation headline can lower oil prices 
to whether physical oil flows, inventories and refined product markets can normalise 
quickly enough to sustain the relief. The positive case is a fast recovery in flows; 
the risk case is a ceasefire that holds politically but disappoints physically. 
Fig. 8 Scenario implications for oil markets and portfolios 
Scenario What happens Market implication Portfolio implication 
Positive  
case: Fast 
normalisation 
Ceasefire holds, 
shipping lanes are 
restored, insurers 
return and Gulf exports 
recover steadily 
Oil risk premium 
fades; lower energy 
prices support 
disinflation 
Supports risk assets, 
especially oil 
importers and 
energy-intensive 
sectors 
Base case: 
Uneven 
recovery 
Flows improve, but 
mine clearance, 
insurance, tanker 
repositioning and field 
restarts take weeks to 
months 
Oil prices remain 
volatile; inventories 
need rebuilding; 
refined products 
remain a risk 
Stay invested, but 
maintain 
diversification and 
hedges 
Negative 
case: 
Ceasefire 
disappoints 
Ceasefire extension 
fails to become a 
durable settlement,  
or shipping confidence 
remains weak 
Risk premium 
returns; inventories 
remain under 
pressure; crude and 
product prices could 
rise non-linearly 
Avoid excessive 
duration risk; retain 
inflation and 
geopolitical hedges

Source: Standard Chartered

Why has the oil shock been more contained than anticipated? 
The muted oil price response to the Middle East conflict and oil supply disruptions should not be mistaken for evidence that the 
supply shock was small; rather, it reflects a combination of macro and market buffers that softened the initial impact.  
First, the economic impact of an o il shock is less extreme in real terms . Even before the recent oil price retreat, Brent near 
USD 100/bbl was not the same shock as USD 100/bbl in earlier cycles. Adjusted for inflation, today’s oil price rise is less extreme, 
and energy costs absorb a smaller share of income than in previous cycles. 
Second, the global economy is less oil -intensive. Economies now use less oil to produce each unit of output, reflecting 
decades of efficiency gains and changes in global growth’s structure. The world is still exposed to oil, especially through 
petrochemicals and logistics, but the transmission from oil prices to inflation and growth is weaker than in past energy crises.

2 Perspectives on key client questions

Anthony Naab, CFA 
Investment Strategist

### Page 8

Global Market Outlook 8

Fig. 9 Oil remains less burdensome than in past shocks 
Estimated oil expenditure as a share of global GDP

Source: World Bank, Energy Institute, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
Third, markets had buffers – and used them. The oil market 
entered the  Middle East  conflict with a more comfortable 
demand-supply balance, including a modest pre -conflict 
surplus, elevated inventories and high oil -on-water. Strategic 
and commercial stock draws helped bridge the supply gap, 
while lower Chinese imports reduced competition for available 
seaborne barrels. Market psychology also helped; repeated 
signs of diplomatic progress reinforced the belief that the 
disruption would prove temporary, allowing the geopolitical 
risk premium to fall after the US-Iran interim deal. 
Fig. 10 Temporary buffers helped contain the shock 
Our assessment of offsets to the oil supply disruption, mb/d

Source: Standard Chartered 
Would the US-Iran interim deal immediately 
normalise oil markets? 
The interim deal has moved the oil market from a disruption 
phase to a recovery phase,  but physical normalisation still 
matters. Inventories have bought time, but not immunity: 
observed global crude and product inventories have fallen 
since early March. Those barrels may need to be rebuilt once 
flows resume, which could keep prices supported even after 
the geopolitical risk premium fades.  
Reopening the Strait of Hormuz is a process, not a switch. 
Shipping lanes need to be assessed, mines need to be 
cleared, insurers need confidence to provide cover, tankers 
need to be repositioned, and some shut -in fields may require 
workovers before output fully recovers. A fast recovery would 
support further price easing, but a slow recovery could leave 
prices higher than the ceasefire headline alone suggests. 
Fig. 11 Oil market normalisation: Post-US-Iran interim 
deal timeline 
Our assessment of market estimates for the restoration of 
global supply

Source: Standard Chartered

What does this mean for portfolios? 
The US-Iran interim deal lowers the risk of a severe, oil-driven 
inflation shock, which is positive for risk assets. However, 
investors should avoid treating the oil retreat as the end of the 
story. The key portfolio risk has shifted from acute geopolitical 
escalation to the pace of physical normalisation and inventory 
rebuilding. 
For equities, this supports selectivity rather than broad de -
risking. Oil -importing regions and energy -intensive sectors 
may benefit from lower prices, but a slow recovery in physical 
flows or renewed product-market tightness could still pressure 
margins and consumption. 
For bonds, the immediate inflation scare has eased, but 
duration risk has not disappeared. If oil or refined -product 
prices remain sticky, long -maturity bonds could remain 
vulnerable to renewed inflation concerns. 
Gold and selected alternatives remain useful hedges if 
geopolitical stress re-emerges or normalisation disappoints. 
Bottom line: The US-Iran interim deal lowers the tail risk, but 
it does not remove the need for balance. Investors should stay 
diversified across regions and sectors, avoid excessive 
duration risk and retain hedges against a more persistent 
inflation shock.

2.2
0.0
2.0
4.0
6.0
8.0
1970 1981 1992 2003 2014 2025
%
Oil expenditure as a percentage of World GDP
-16.0
3.0 2.5
3.0
4.5
3.0
0
3
6
9
12
15
18
Gross ME supply
disruption
Alternative routes/
partial flows
Higher non
gulf exports
Lower China
imports
Inventory
release
Demand
Loss Adjustment
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
Share
Days to week 1-3 months
3-24 months Not fully recovered

### Page 9

Global Market Outlook 9

Summary

Our current investment positioning to start H2 2026 is built on a disciplined, scenario-based approach that helps us navigate 
market uncertainty by preparing for multiple economic outcomes. To guide our investment decisions, we categori se the global 
economy into four distinct scenarios: Growth (our upside scenario), soft landing (our base case), and stagflation and 
recession (our downside risks). 
Our portfolios are tilted to capture growth opportunities, but we recognise that risks remain. Th us, we maintain an all -weather 
approach with built-in hedges to protect wealth and ensure resilience if we unexpectedly see a stagflation or recession scenario.

Key findings

Fig. 12 Scenario definition: Our macroeconomic scenarios for H2 2026 
Four macro regimes for H2 2026: Growth, soft landing, stagflation and recession 
Probability 60% 20% 10% 10% 
Scenario Soft-landing 
scenario 
Growth  
scenario (no landing) 
Recession 
scenario (hard landing) 
Stagflation 
scenario 
Hormuz situation Blockade lasting few 
weeks 
Blockade lifted; no 
impact 
Prolonged impasse Prolonged impasse 
US growth projection 0-2% 2-3% -2-0% 0-1% 
Primary drivers     
Core PCE Inflation ▼ Gradual 
normalisation 
(1.5 to 2.5%) 
▼ /=Modest 
normalisation 
(2 to 3%) 
▼ Rapid decline 
(1% to 2%) 
▲ Re-acceleration 
(3% to 5%) 
Fed Funds/Policy Rate ▼ Hold, then modest 
cut (-25 to -50bps) 
▲ Healthy hikes 
(+25 to 75bps) 
▼ Rates cut sharply 
(-100 to -200bps) 
▲ Forced hikes 
(+50 to 200bps) 
Unemployment Rate <> Stable 
(4 to 4.5%) 
▼ Gradual decline 
(<4%) 
▲ Sharp rise 
(>5.0%) 
▲ Rise 
(4.5% to 5%) 
Oil price (Brent)  ▼ Sharp decrease  
(60 to 80/bbl.) 
▼ /= Higher for longer  
(80 to 100/bbl.) 
▼ Demand destruction 
(40 to 60/bbl.) 
▲ Sustained elevation 
(100 to 150/bbl.) 
Secondary drivers     
10Y Treasury Yield <> Broadly Stable  
(4 to 4.5%) 
▲ Steepening, long-end 
upward (4.5 to 5%) 
▼ Flight to safety 
(1 to 2%) 
▲ Long-end upward 
(4.5 to 5%) 
USD (DXY) ▼ /= Modest weakening 
/Stable (96 to 100) 
▲ Strengthening 
(100 to 105) 
▼ Weakening 
(90 to 96) 
▲ Strengthening 
(100 to 102) 
Credit Spreads (HY) <> Stable / modest 
tightening (300bps) 
▼ Tightening 
 (260 to 300bps) 
▲ Severe widening 
(600 to 800bps) 
▲ Widening 
(450 to 600bps) 
Growth Equities  ▲ Modest upside 
(+5%) 
▲ Re-rating 
(+15%) 
▼ Severe drawdown 
(-30%) 
▼ De-rating 
(-20%)

Legends:   ▼ Decrease compared to current environment  |  ▲ Increase compared to current environment   |  <> Stable compared to  
current environment 
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Asset allocation: Balancing opportunity 
and resilience

8

Sylvain Huard 
Head of Asset Allocation 
Hannah Chew 
Portfolio Strategist

### Page 10

Global Market Outlook 10

Macro scenarios and their market impact 
We carefully assess the probability of each scenario and its 
potential impact on the financial markets (see Fig 12): 
• Growth (20% probability): A scenario where the economy 
accelerates without triggering high inflation, which would 
be highly favourable for stock markets.  
• Soft landing (60% probability): This is our central 
expectation, characterised by low , but positive economic 
growth and falling inflation. In this environment, we expect 
steady, positive returns for riskier assets.  
• Stagflation and recession (10% probability each): These 
are our downside risk scenarios. Stagflation involves low 
growth with rising inflation, while a recession involves 
negative growth and falling inflation. Because both pose 
significant market risks, we integrate them directly into our 
portfolio design to avoid being caught off guard. 
Economic regimes and historical asset return 
Past market behaviour helps us prepare for the future, as 
asset performance is heavily driven by the broader economic 
regime (see Fig 13). 
In soft-landing environments: Low-inflationary growth 
strongly supports risk assets. Equities and corporate credit 
typically outperform safer government bonds, with stocks 
historically beating bonds by 6.6% annually. 
In stagflation or recession environments: Stagflation is the 
most adverse scenario for risk assets, with stocks 
underperforming bonds by 25.4%. However, defensive assets 
shine. Gold has historically outperformed stocks by 27.7% 
during stagflation. Similarly, high -quality bonds  – despite 
delivering negative returns  – and gold reliably outperform 
during recessions, proving their value as diversifiers. 
Fig. 13 Historical returns of main asset classes 
Annualised historical relative returns under different 
economic regimes

Low 
inflationary 
growth 
High 
inflationary 
growth Stagflation Recession 
Stock vs. 
Bond 6.60% 9.30% -25.40% -0.30% 
HY vs. 
IG 5.40% 4.20% -5.00% 2.30% 
Gold vs. 
Bond 3.10% 13.80% 2.30% 8.50% 
Gold vs. 
Stock -3.50% 4.40% 27.70% 8.90%

Low inflationary growth: growth > 0% and inflation < 2%, High 
inflationary growth: growth > 0% and inflation > 2%, Stagflation: 
growth < 2% and inflation > 2%, and Recession: growth < 0% and 
inflation < 2%. Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

How macro scenarios shape our positioning 
Our current portfolio positioning directly reflects our soft -
landing base case while simultaneously maintaining robust 
protection against stagflation and recession (see Fig 14).  
We are constructive but highly selective on the risks we take. 
We Overweight equity exposure (notably in the US), while we 
aim to reduce fixed income overall . However, we focus on 
high-quality Developed Market (DM) corporate bonds to 
benefit from attractive yields and potential gains if interest 
rates fall.  
On the other hand, to ensure our portfolio is protected against 
unexpected economic shocks, we maintain an all -weather 
portfolio construction  to ensure healthy d iversification and 
maintain defensive assets. To protect against stagflation, the 
portfolios maintain an Overweight towards gold and AxJ and 
slightly higher cash compared to a month ago. In the event of 
a hard landing, we are prepared to rotate decisively into fixed 
income, especially DM government bonds, while maintaining 
gold as a diversifier . As such, o ur portfolios are explicitly 
designed to remain resilient across all economic paths . By 
blending our base-case optimism with downside hedges, we 
retain the flexibility to quickly adjust our positioning if 
economic data indicates a shift away from a soft landing. 
Fig. 14 Optimal vs. our current positioning 
Optimal (and unconstrained) positioning based on relative 
performance of each asset class when applying macro 
shocks defined in our scenarios

Legends:   Stagflation & Recession scenarios  | 
  Soft-landing scenario  |   Our current positioning 
Source: Standard Chartered 
We remain firmly anchored in our expectation of a soft 
landing, positioning portfolios to capture growth in a stabilising 
economy while maintaining strategic hedges and an all -
weather construction to prepare for adverse scenarios. 
Our aim is to participate in market opportunities while 
rigorously protecting wealth across any economic outcome.

### Page 11

Global Market Outlook 11

Key themes

Core scenario (soft landing, 60% probability): The US-Iran interim deal to restart shipping through the Strait of Hormuz within 
weeks should help global economies achieve a soft landing  and keep long-term inflation expectations subdued , reducing the 
need for central banks to tighten policy as much as markets are pricing. We now expect the Fed, under Chair Warsh, to cut rates 
by 25bps by H1 2027, instead of this year, as focus turns to supporting growth. The ECB is likely to hold rates after delivering 
an ‘insurance’ hike in June, while China eases policy to revive domestic demand. The BoJ is likely to hike once more this year.  
Downside risk (20% probability) : This tail risk scenario incorporates a 10% chance of a recession, potentially caused by a 
delayed restart of Hormuz shipping , a stock market downturn hurting investor confidence or a bond sell -off due to inflation or 
debt concerns. We also assign a 10% probability to a stagflation scenario if the Middle East crisis resumes and oil prices rebound. 
Upside risk (no landing, 20% probability): If the Hormuz strait is reopened in a few weeks, there is a chance that US tax cuts, 
AI investments, the wealth effect from a booming stock market, fiscal easing in Germany and Japan, and a potential rollback of 
US tariffs could revive ‘animal spirits’. A Russia-Ukraine peace deal or a global defence spending boom would lift global growth.

Key chart  
We now expect the Fed to 
cut its policy rate by 25bps  
in H1 2027, instead of this 
year, as near-term inflation 
gradually eases towards 
target by mid-2027; ECB 
likely to hold rates and BoJ  
to hike by 25bps by Q4 2026. 
 Fig. 15 Markets appear overly hawkish on policy rates as inflation concerns peak 
Expected change in policy rates by June 2027; US one- and five-year inflation estimates^

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; ^based on money markets, inflation-linked bonds and swaps

Policy rates watch  
Fed to hold rates this year, cut by 25bps in H1 2027: The 
US economy is holding up better than feared, with consensus 
Q2 2026 growth tracking at ~2.2% q/q SAAR. Full-year 2026 
growth is broadly expected to average ~2.1%, supported by 
robust AI-related capital expenditure (capex) and a recovering 
labour market. Payrolls in May beat consensus for the third 
straight month, with unemployment steady at 4.3%. A restart 
of shipping through the Hormuz strait should ease gasoline 
prices, relieving pressure on consum ers, while AI -related 
investments and defence spending lift manufacturing. 
Inflation remains the dominant macro concern. April core PCE 
inflation rose to 3.3%  y/y, its highest since late 2023 , driven 
by energy prices, tariff pass -through and an emerging ‘tech-
flation’ impulse from AI-related software costs. We believe the 
US-Iran interim deal should lead to a peak in headline inflation 
in Q2, along with oil prices. Core PCE inflation is likely to ease 
towards 2% by end-2027 as tariff and energy effects fade. 
Against this backdrop, the Fed is likely to remain on hold 
through 2026-end, with the June meeting removing its easing 
bias. We have pushed back our expectations for the next rate 
cut to H1 2027. This contrasts with m arket pricing of almost 
48bps of hikes by June 2027. New Fed Chair Warsh faces an 
increasingly hawkish committee, with nine out of 18 
policymakers expecting rate hikes this year . However, w e 
expect Warsh to point to subdued long -term inflation 
expectations to argue for holding rates for now. A reversal of 
energy-driven inflation in the coming months should bolster 
the case for rate cuts by the middle of next year. 
ECB to hold rates after June’s ‘insurance’ hike: The Euro 
area is navigating a stagflationary headwind. Consensus 2026 
real GDP growth estimates have fallen  50bps to just 0. 7%, 
since the start of the year, while inflation estimates have risen, 
reflecting elevated energy prices stemming from the Strait of 
Hormuz disruption. Q1 GDP growth contracted 0.2% q/q, and 
consensus estimate for Q2 growth remains weak at 0.1% q/q. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
Australia UK Euro
area
Canada Japan US New
Zealand
bps
76.6
2.4
2.2
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
40
55
70
85
100
115
Dec-25 Feb-26 Apr-26 Jun-26
%
USD/bbl
WTI oil 1y inflation swap
5y breakeven inflation

6 Macro overview – at a glance

Rajat Bhattacharya 
Senior Investment Strategist

### Page 12

Global Market Outlook 12 
The base case remains  of weak-but-positive growth, with 
recession risks concentrated in France and Germany rather 
than the broader Euro area. Nevertheless, Germany's fiscal 
impulse provides a partial offset. 
The consensus headline inflation estimate for 2026 has surged 
110bps to 2.9%, driven overwhelmingly by the energy shock. 
With the latest US-Iran interim deal, we expect inflation to peak 
in H2 2026 before a gradual moderation. Second-round effects 
remain a key risk, though we view them as limited, given looser 
labour markets and moderating wage trackers. 
The weak growth outlook and lack of wage pressures lead us 
to believe that the ECB is likely to hold is policy rate for the 
rest of the year after hiking once to 2.25% in June. The risk of 
another rate hike this year will rise if wage data picks up or if 
there is a delay in the normalisation of shipping through the 
Hormuz strait. However, the ECB will be conscious of its ill -
timed 2011 tightening ahead of the European financial crisis. 
China to provide targeted policy support as growth 
slows. China's growth trajectory remains a tale of two halves. 
After a stronger -than-expected Q1  2026, momentum has 
visibly softened. Consensus growth estimates for H2 2026 
have been revised down. The drag is concentrated in 
domestic demand, with retail sales, fixed asset investment 
and the property sector all contracting in May. Exports and 
industrial pr oduction remain the brightest spot s, growing 
19.4% y/y and 4.5% y/y, respectively, in May, supported by 
the global AI investment cycle and green transition demand. 
However, forward -looking PMI data signals that export 
momentum may fade, with export orders slipping below 50.  
China's inflation picture is bifurcated.  Producer inflation 
has surged from -1.9% in December 2025 to + 3.9% in Ma y 
2026, driven by global commodity prices – particularly oil – 
and AI-related supply dynamics. However, the pass -through 
to consumer prices remains weak. Consumer inflation is likely 
to remain subdued as domestic demand stays soft.  
Policy settings had turned more cautious following strong Q1 
growth. Fiscal spending growth turned sharply negative in 
April (-7% y/y), though a rebound in H2 is expected as the 
government accelerates bond issuance and project approvals 
to support investment and revive growth momentum . The 
aggregate fiscal deficit is likely to reach close to  9% of GDP, 
with longer-term risks flagged around local government debt 
sustainability. On monetary policy, the PBoC is expected to 
hold its 7-day Reverse Repo rate at 1.4% through year-end 
2026. Instead, the central bank is likely to further cut bank 
reserve requirements and rely on targeted liquidity tools in H2 
to support priority sectors, while managing ample system 
liquidity generated by China's large trade surplus. 
BoJ to hike policy rate another 25bps to 1.25% by 
December: Japan's economy has strengthened sufficiently to 
support continued policy normalisation. Real GDP expanded 
at an annualised 1.8% in Q1 2026, marking a second straight 
quarter of growth. The recovery is underpinned by resilient 
business investment — machine tool orders surged 37% y/y 
in May, driven by automation and AI infrastructure spending. 
While private consumption remains a positive contributor, 
household spending patterns suggest the transmiss ion from 
wage gains to broader demand remains gradual. 
Inflation dynamics are increasingly resembling a self -
sustaining wage -price cycle. Japan’s 2026 Shunto wage 
negotiations delivered an average wage settlement of 5.3%, 
a third consecutive year above 5%, with small and medium 
enterprises joining in . Although headline inflation has 
moderated to 1. 5% y/y in May due to government utility 
subsidies, the BoJ's preferred measure – CPI ex-fresh food 
and institutional factors – firmed to 2.8% y/y, the highest in six 
months. Elevated oil prices are being passed on to consumer 
prices, raising the risk of core inflation staying above target. 
The BoJ raised its policy rate in June by 25bps to 1.00%, 
the highest since 1995, in a 7-1 vote, with Deputy Governor 
Uchida reaffirming commitment to further hikes. We expect 
another 25bps hike in H2 2026, with rising risk of a follow-up 
hike in H1 2027. Meanwhile, the BoJ decided to stop tapering 
government bond purchases from April 2027, stabilising 
monthly government bond buying at ~JPY 2trn. However, 
fiscal risks loom as the government mulls a food sales tax cut 
in FY27, which could lift the 10-year government bond yield 
above the government’s 3% budgetary assumption, 
complicating the BoJ's policy normalisation path.

Fig. 16 US economic growth likely to outperform peers’  Fig. 17 US inflation likely to return near target by 2027 
Consensus GDP growth estimates for Q2 2027  Consensus inflation estimates for Q2 2027

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

2.1
1.2
0.8
1.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
Dec-25 Feb-26 Apr-26 Jun-26
% y/y
US Euro area
Japan UK
2.2
2.1
1.0
2.5
2.8
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
Dec-25 Feb-26 Apr-26 Jun-26
% y/y
US Euro area China
Japan UK

### Page 13

Global Market Outlook 13

Our view

Foundation: We are Underweight fixed income . Within the asset class, we maintain an Overweight stance on EM USD 
bonds and an Underweight stance on DM government bonds . We expect the Fed to keep rates higher for longer before 
eventually easing as labour market weakness takes centre stage, despite easing Middle East tensions amid a US-Iran interim 
peace deal announcement. Further work is needed to fully reopen the Strait of Hormuz, and the truce could still change , given 
past experience. Against this backdrop, we expect USD strength to persist in the near term, with EM foreign exchange becoming 
a headwind to returns. This leads us to downgrade EM LCY government bonds to Neutral (Core holding) from Overweight. DM 
IG and HY are both Core holdings, as corporate bonds continue to offer carry, although there is limited room for further spre ad 
compression. Corporate fundamentals  remain resilient, with stable leverage and strong interest coverage, supporting our 
preference for credit over rates. 
Opportunistic ideas:  We are bullish European bank additional tier-1 ( AT1) bonds ( contingent convertibles [ CoCos1]; FX -
hedged), US TIPS, AAA-rated collateralised loan obligations (CLOs), US utilities corporate hybrids and AUD corporate bonds. 
We have closed the short-duration US HY bonds idea and replaced it with a new bullish idea on broader US HY bonds.

Key charts

Fig. 18 Summary of rate forecasts

Region Horizon 2-year 10-year 30-year

US Q3 2026 4.00 – 4.25% 4.25 – 4.50% 4.75 – 5.00% 
Q2 2027 3.75 – 4.00% 4.25 – 4.50% 5.00 – 5.25%

Eurozone Q3 2026 2.25 – 2.50% 2.75 – 3.00% 3.25 – 3.50% 
Q2 2027 2.00 – 2.25% 2.50 – 2.75% 3.00 – 3.25%

Japan Q3 2026 1.25 – 1.50% 2.50 – 2.75% 3.75 – 4.00% 
Q2 2027 1.50 – 1.75% 2.75 – 3.00% 4.00 – 4.25%

Source: Standard Chartered

DM rates – Underweight 
We are Underweight DM IG government bonds. In the US, 
persistent above -target inflation continues to reinforce our 
view that the term premium is set to remain structurally 
elevated, compounded by a growing fiscal burden and a still 
fluid situation in the Middle East. The share of price-sensitive 
investors in the free float of government debt has been rising, 
and if this momentum continues, supply -demand dynamics 
will exert further upward pressure on term premia. Against this 
backdrop, we set our three- and 12-month view for the 10-year 
US government bond  yield at 4.25 -4.50%. For the 2 -year 
yield, we target 4.00 -4.25% over three months and 3.75 -
4.00% over 12 months, as we push expectations for a Fed 
interest rate cut into H1 2027, with the Fed likely to gradually 
shift its focus towards emerging labour  market weakness, 
which should affect the shorter end of the US yield curve. 
This eventual policy pivot means we expect the US yield curve 
to transition to a steepening dynamic over the 12 -month 
horizon, as the front end rallies in anticipation of Fed cuts while 
the longer end remains under pressure amid fiscal supply 
concerns. Within this context, and as the shorter end of the US 
government bond yield curve has already bear -flattened, we 
are moving our bond positioning to the 3-5-year tenor from 
the previous 5 -7-year tenor. We remain Underweight long -
dated maturities, where the combination of fiscal risk, a higher 
term premium and limited duration demand continues to weigh. 
The Euro area and Japan  face a more challenging inflation 
backdrop driven by elevated energy prices, given their status 
as large commodity importers. Euro -area economic data has 
been weakening, and we now expect the ECB to hold rates 
after its ‘insurance hike ’ in June before eventually cutting 
policy rates in H1 2027 as economic conditions deteriorate 
further.  
The BoJ is expected to continue its tightening path, but it is 
still deemed to be behind the curve. We expect further upward 
pressure on Japan government bond yields and expect 
Japanese government bonds to underperform US 
government bonds on an FX-hedged basis.

7 Fixed Income – at a glance

Jonathan Liang, CFA 
CIO, Fixed Income & FX 
Cedric Lam 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Ray Heung 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Anthony Naab, CFA 
Investment Strategist

### Page 14

Global Market Outlook 14 
DM corporates – Core holding  
We maintain a Neutral allocation to both DM IG and DM HY 
corporate bonds, with a slight relative preference for HY over 
IG. We are expressing this slight preference with a new 
Opportunistic bullish idea on broad US HY bonds, while closing 
the short-duration US HY bonds. While we acknowledge there 
is limited room for spreads to compress materially from current 
levels – especially with US IG index spreads around 75bps – 
we expect dispersion to increase from here. 
Fig. 19 DM IG corporate spreads tightened back 
towards the lows 
Bloomberg Global Agg Corp index, OAS

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Fig. 20 DM HY corporate spreads retraced back to the 
lows since the Middle East conflict 
Bloomberg Global HY Corp Index, option-adjusted spread 
(OAS)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
As an income proposition, HY remains supported by all -in 
yields in the 6%+ range and broadly benign default 
expectations. The HY index has also seen an increasing 
share of BB-rated credits, suggesting that credit quality within 
the index continues to impro ve. HY fund flows have also 
rebounded meaningfully since April, providing a constructive 
technical backdrop.  
On the IG side, spreads remain tight. AI capex -driven 
issuance has reached elevated levels, with 2026 US IG gross 
issuance tracking towards ~USD 1.8trn. Recent new issues 
have come with fewer concessions, leading to some 
secondary underperformance post -issuance, particularly in 
the tech sector. However, the bonds have generally been well-
absorbed by resilient demand, including strong foreign inflows 
and retail exchange-traded fund ( ETF) buying, supported by 
the attractiveness of still-elevated overall yields. 
Tight valuation is also supported by corporate fundamentals 
across both IG and HY, which remain resilient, underpinned 
by solid profitability, stable credit metrics, and a positive 
ratings watch/outlook balance. Bonds on a positive watch are 
now at their highest level since October 2025. 
Fig. 21 Both HY and IG corporate leverage ratios have 
remained relatively stable  
Gross debt to EBITDA, Bloomberg US Corporate Investment 
Grade and High Yield Bond Index

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
EM government bonds – Overweight 
USD/Core holding for LCY 
We retain a constructive but more selective view on EM fixed 
income relative to DM, supported by compelling carry and a 
broadly supportive macro backdrop. The asset class continues 
to benefit from resilient external positions and improving fiscal 
dynamics in select markets. However, we have made an 
allocation shift: we retain a small Overweight in EM USD 
government bonds, where income remains the dominant driver 
of returns, while downgrading EM LCY government bonds to 
Neutral ( Core holding) from Overweight.  The EM USD 
Government Bond Index has a higher proportion of oil 
exporters compared with the EM LCY government bond index, 
which is more dominated by energy importers. With energy 
risks subsiding but still lingering, we expect the less exposed 
EM USD government bonds in the EM space to outperform. 
Fig. 22 EM USD Index has a higher proportion of non-
oil importing countries than EM LCY  
Weight of non-oil importing countries in Bloomberg EM USD 
and LCY government bond indices

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
60
90
120
150
180
210
Mar-21 Dec-22 Sep-24 Jun-26
bps
DMIG OAS 5-year-avg OAS
200
300
400
500
600
700
Mar-21 Dec-22 Sept-24 Jun-26
bps
DMHY OAS 5-year-avg OAS
2.2
3.0
3.8
4.6
5.4
Jan-15 Dec-18 Nov-22 Oct-26
IG HY
67%
46%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
EM USD EM LCY

### Page 15

Global Market Outlook 15 
The key pillars supporting our EM USD view include a Fed on 
hold through 2026 before cutting in H1 2027 (not yet priced by 
markets), stronger EM fiscal and external balances and 
attractive carry. We continue to favour sovereigns with resilient 
external accounts and supportive terms of trade, particularly oil 
exporters in Latin America and select African producers. 
Fig. 23 EM USD yields still offer 2%-plus pick-up over 
DM yields 
Bloomberg EM USD Government Bond Index, yield to worst, 
and yield over the Bloomberg Global Treasury Index

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
EM LCY government bonds now have a Neutral allocation in 
our portfolios, reflecting our view that US policy rates will stay 
higher for longer, supporting a relatively stronger USD  in the 
near term and potentially negatively affecting the asset class 
returns through EM FX.  
Within EM local currency, while high real yields and improving 
central bank credibility remain supportive in select markets, 
near-term headwinds from oil-driven inflation, rate-hike cycles 
in certain EM countries and currency volatility across 
commodity-importing countries – together with these 
countries’ higher weight in the index – warrant a less bullish 
stance. We prefer higher -carry markets and remain more 
selective on lower-yielding segments in Asia. 
Fig. 24 EM LCY headline yields remain attractive, but 
headwinds from EM FX have returned 
Bloomberg EM LCY Government Bond Index, yield to worst

6.0 
2.5 
 -
 2.0
 4.0
 6.0
 3.5
 5.5
 7.5
 9.5
May-21 Feb-23 Nov-24 Aug-26
%
%
 Yield  Yield over DM (RHS)
6.5
6.0 
3.5
4.5
5.5
6.5
7.5
Apr-21 Dec-22 Aug-24 Apr-26
%
 EMLCY yield  5-year-avg

### Page 16

Global Market Outlook 16

Our view

We remain Overweight global equities. Our core scenario for a restart of shipping through the Strait of Hormuz within weeks 
is positive for risk sentiment and the earnings outlook. Earnings growth has remained robust through the Middle East conflict , 
and we expect this to continue supporting global equities. We are Overweight US equities, where we see earnings growth 
revised up for future quarters in 2026 -27. We upgrade AxJ equities to Overweight as a reopening of the Hormuz strait would 
ease energy supply into the region. We expect AxJ to continue to benefit from strong AI capex. 
Within AxJ, we retain our diversified preference. We are Overweight Taiwan for AI-related semiconductor growth, Overweight 
China for the valuation re-rating potential and Overweight India for domestically driven growth, amid reduced oil concerns. 
We have a Core allocation to Japan and Europe ex-UK, where fiscal expansion plans support the growth outlook. We remain 
Underweight UK equities, which have relatively muted earnings growth with low exposure to growth sectors.

Key chart  
US and AxJ equities are 
buoyed by AI-driven earnings.  
Index 
12m 
forecast 
Upside to 
target^ 
S&P500 7,950 6% 
Nasdaq 100 32,600 7% 
Euro Stoxx 50 6,620 5% 
FTSE 100  10,750 3% 
Hang Seng 25,600 7% 
Nifty 50 25,900 7% 
Nikkei 225 74,500 5%

Fig. 25 AxJ and US equities are leading in terms of earnings growth; positive returns 
YTD 2026 are driven by earnings, while valuations have fallen   
Consensus 2026 and 2027 earnings growth estimates for MSCI equity indices; composition 
of returns YTD 2026 for MSCI equity indices

^Based on 18-Jun closing levels  Source: FactSet, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

The bullish case The bearish case

Preference order

US 
equities 
▽ ◇ ▲

Strong earnings growth with AI tailwinds 
 EPS growth broadening beyond tech 
 Relatively less vulnerable to oil shocks 
– AI capex slowdown, given tech concentration 
– Concerns about AI investment returns 
– Interest rate hikes, given persistent inflation

AxJ 
equities 
▽ ◇ ▲

Strongest EPS growth vs major regions 
 Beneficiary of AI hardware capex 
 Attractive valuation vs global equities 
– Strong YTD gains may limit upside surprise  
– Sensitive to energy and geopolitical shocks 
– AI trade is crowded 
Within AxJ     China ▲                Taiwan ▲               India ▲               South Korea ◆              ASEAN ▼

Japan 
equities 
▽ ◆ △

Fiscal support for strategic investments 
 Reflation cycle supports earnings growth 
 Corp governance reforms to unlock value 
– Potentially stronger JPY would hurt exports 
– Sensitive to energy and gas price spikes 
– Vulnerable to cyclical global slowdown

Europe ex-UK 
equities 
▽ ◆ △

Supportive fiscal stimulus plans 
 M&A activity supports higher valuation 
 Broadening of corporate EPS expected 
– Further ECB rate hikes could hurt growth 
– Sensitive to energy and gas price spikes 
– Weaker EPS growth vs major regions

UK 
equities 
▼ ◇ △

Relatively defensive in growth sell-offs 
 High-dividend yield; cheap valuations 
 Commodity tilt offers inflation protection 
– Low exposure to growth sectors 
– Fiscal uncertainty; low consumer confidence 
– Muted EPS outlook vs major regions

Green = Upgrade; Red = Downgrade Legends:   ▲ Overweight  | ▼ Underweight  | ◆ Core  
Source: Standard Chartered Global Investment Committee

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Global US Europe
ex-UK
UK Asia
ex-Japan
Japan
%
2026 2027
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
Global US Europe
ex-UK
UK Asia ex-
Japan
Japan
Total return (%)
PE change Earnings change
Divi Yield Total

8 Equity – at a glance

Sundeep Gantori, CFA, CAIA 
Chief Investment Officer, Equities 
Fook Hien Yap 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Michelle Kam, CFA 
Investment Strategist 
Jason Wong 
Equity Analyst

### Page 17

Global Market Outlook 17

US equities – Overweight 
We remain Overweight US equities, where earnings have 
been robust through the Middle East crisis. Companies are 
running lean and adopting AI, with the technology sector 
leading in earnings growth. Although the rise of “other income” 
– driven by the revaluation of equity stakes – is causing a 
deterioration in earnings quality, we remain comfortable with 
further upside in US equities from broadening earnings growth 
and reasonable valuations . We also expect a wave of large 
IPOs in the US to drive near -term volatility as index inclusion 
and liquidity reallocations tak e place around the IPOs. Over 
the longer term, however, fundamentals remain the key driver. 
Fig. 26 US equities have seen earnings growth revised 
higher for future quarters in 2026-27  
MSCI US actual and consensus earnings growth (y/y)

Source: FactSet, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  
AxJ equities – Overweight 
Our core scenario for a reopening of the Hormuz strait within 
a few weeks is a positive driver for our upgrade of AxJ, which 
relies heavily on energy supply from the Middle East. AxJ has 
seen the highest earnings growth in 2026-27 among the major 
equity markets , as it benefits from strong AI capex  and a 
strong presence in semiconductor manufacturing. An easing 
of energy and other supply chain bottlenecks would enable 
the continuation of growth in AxJ. 
Within AxJ, our Overweight markets of Taiwan, China and 
India reflect a diversified preference. Taiwan benefits from its 
strong capabilities in semiconductor manufacturing, with 
structural volume growth underpinning earnings growth. 
China continues to be attractively valued, as tech innovation 
there keeps up with AI developments – China’s 15th Five-year 
Plan explicitly targets AI integration . China’s successful shift 
towards renewable energy in recent years with ample energy 
capacity gives it an advantage in the AI race, where data 
centres tend to be power hungry. India offers attractive mid-
teens earnings growth, which is less correlated to the AI 
theme and driven by domestic factors. A reopening of the 
Hormuz strait would improve the growth outlook for India.

South Korea equities remain a core holding for us. Although 
we are positive on earnings growth driven by the memory 
chips industry  there, we view the pricing -driven earnings 
growth as less desirable than volume-driven growth. 
Fig. 27 China equities remain attractively valued amid 
tech innovation and AI developments 
Relative 12-month forward P/E ratio of MSCI China vs. MSCI 
All Country World index

Source: FactSet, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
We are Underweight ASEAN, which has relatively muted 
earnings growth. The region lacks exposure to the technology 
sector, which we believe would cause it to lag the tech-heavy 
AxJ market.  
Japan equities – Core holding 
As an oil importer, Japan would also benefit from a reopening 
of the Hormuz strait. Fiscal support for strategic investments 
is also positive for the growth outlook and the resumption of 
nominal growth after decades of disinflation supports cost 
pass through and higher profits. Rising rates in Japan could , 
however, lead to a stronger Japanese yen (JPY) over the next 
12 months, a headwind for exporters.  
Europe ex-UK equities – Core holding 
Europe ex-UK benefits from fiscal stimulus plans, particularly 
in Germany. Easing regulations have also led to a rise of M&A 
activity, which is supportive of equity valuations. We see a 
broadening of earnings growth, although it still lags the growth 
in the US and AxJ.  
UK equities – Underweight  
The UK has a defensive composition that is likely to 
underperform the more growth -oriented regions, such as the 
US and AxJ. Fiscal uncertainty and weak consumer sentiment 
is also likely to weigh on the economy and the GBP, making 
returns less attractive for USD-based investors.  
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2
2024 2025 2026 2027
Earnings growth
Actual Estimated 3-months ago
-38.7
-30.3
-21.1
-39.5
-55
-45
-35
-25
-15
-5
Dec-15 Jun-19 Dec-22 Jun-26
Premium/discount (%)
Relative P/E of China/All Country World index
Mean
+/- 1 S.D

### Page 18

Global Market Outlook 18

Add global high-dividend, US communication 
services and Japan banks ideas 
• We initiate an Opportunistic idea on global high -
dividend stocks. This strategy delivers reliable income to 
navigate volatility. With equity risk premiums remaining 
compressed, income yield provides a critical return 
cushion. Furthermore, a heavy weighting in cyclical and 
defensive sectors, such as financials and utilities, ensures 
downside protection. 
• We initiate an Opportunistic idea on US 
communication services , with the recent correction 
providing an attractive entry point. A fundamental recovery 
in digital ad spending and increasing AI moneti sation are 
driving momentum. These catalysts justify accelerating 
capex and offer valuation re -rating potential, as current 
valuations remain reasonable vs. their five-year average. 
• We initiate an Opportunistic idea on Japan banks. 
Potential BoJ rate hikes should drive net interest margin 
expansion, while Japan’s reflation cycle boosts loan 
demand. Furthermore, ongoing corporate governance 
reforms – driving buybacks and dividends – support higher 
ROEs and continued valuation re -rating. The theme also 
helps broaden equity exposure beyond tech, with 
Japanese banks offering a distinct set of return drivers. 
• We take profit on US aerospace and defence, locking 
in a gain of 3.1% (12 February 20 26-18 June 20 26). 
Aerospace demand has slowed amid geopolitical 
tensions, while growth in defence spending has been 
largely priced into current valuations . We also close our 
gold miners idea to cut our losses (a loss of 10.4% from 
23 April 2026 to 18 June 2026). Although gold remains an 
Overweight from an asset allocation perspective, we see 
short-term gold price risks , and gold miners tend to be 
more volatile than the gold price itself.  
Fig. 28 Opportunistic ideas 
Region Idea 
Global Global high-dividend* 
MSCI World Equal Weight 
US US communication services* 
Asia Japan banks* 
Hang Seng Technology

Source: Standard Chartered. * New idea  
Ongoing ideas 
MSCI World Equal Weight: The theme rides on a broadening 
rally beyond AI leaders and hedges against concentration risk  
in cap-weighted benchmarks. Equal-weighting structurally tilts 
the index toward cyclicals – industrials and financials – which 
are set to benefit from resilient macro data and a soft-landing 
backdrop. An economic downturn weighing on cyclical stocks 
is a risk. 
Hang Seng Technology: Tech innovation remains a key 
priority under China’s 15 th Five-year Plan. Potential IPO 
activity should support investor sentiment, while d eeply 
discounted valuations also offer  an attractive entry point.  
Adverse regulatory changes are risks. 
Sector views: Broadening out  
We upgrade Europe ex-UK industrials to Overweight, driven 
by EU fiscal stimulus and AI investment and electrification 
supporting capital goods demand. Japan financials are also 
upgraded to Overweight amid the BoJ normalisation cycle and 
corporate governance reforms. We maintain a barbell strategy 
across US technology and communication services, where 
structural AI tailwinds and broadening monetisation 
opportunities remain compelling, balanced by defensive 
exposure to healthcare. Europe ex -UK financials remain 
Overweight, supported by strong balance sheets  and 
attractive shareholder returns. 
In China, we shift to a more pro-risk stance, given the broader 
market re -rating potential. Technology and communication 
services remain Overweight, driven by domestic chip self -
reliance and AI monetisation. Healthcare is downgraded to 
Neutral and consumer staples to Underweight on limited 
earnings visibility, while utilities is upgraded to Neutral on 
improving power demand dynamics and policy support. 
Fig. 29 Our sector views  
Global top preferred 
sectors 
US technology 
US communication 
US healthcare 
Europe ex-UK financials 
Europe ex-UK industrials ▲ 
Japan financials ▲

China sectors 
Technology 
Communication 
Healthcare ▼ 
Financials 
Discretionary 
Materials 
Industrials 
Energy 
Utilities ▲ 
Staples ▼ 
Real estate

Legends:  Overweight  |  Core  |  Underweight 
▲ Upgrade from last month    |    ▼ Downgrade from last month 
Source: Standard Chartered

8 Equity opportunistic views

Sundeep Gantori, CFA, CAIA 
Chief Investment Officer, Equities 
Fook Hien Yap 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Michelle Kam, CFA 
Investment Strategist 
Jason Wong 
Equity Analyst

### Page 19

Global Market Outlook 19

Our view

• We remain Overweight gold but lower our three- and 12-month price targets to USD 4,750/oz and 5,100/oz, respectively. 
• We lower our three- and 12-month West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil price forecasts to USD 80/bbl and USD 70/bbl, 
respectively, as reduced geopolitical risk premiums shift the focus back to fundamentals.

Key charts

Fig. 30 Gold’s sensitivity to real yields has re-emerged 
Spot gold vs. US 10-year inflation-indexed bonds  
Fig. 31 Modest USD weakness may offer only limited 
support to gold  
Spot gold vs. Trade Weighted Dollar Index

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Fig. 32 Oil price expectations have shifted lower on the 
US-Iran interim deal 
Market-implied WTI prices across future delivery months

Fig. 33 Low oil inventories should support near-term 
prices, but forecasts point to a recovery ahead 
Oil supply forecasts, price estimates

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: EIA, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Gold outlook: The long-term case for gold remains intact, but 
the rally’s drivers are becoming more balanced. Gold’s 
sensitivity to traditional macro factors, particularly real yields 
and the USD, has re -emerged after weakening earlier in the 
cycle. With both likely to remain elevated, higher carrying 
costs should limit pace of gains near term and raise the risk of 
intermittent profit taking. Nevertheless, sustained central bank 
demand, ongoing diversification and residual geopolitical risks 
should continue to provide underlying support. 
Oil outlook:  The US -Iran interim deal has reduced 
geopolitical risks in oil markets, shifting the focus to supply -
demand fundamentals. Trade flow u ncertainties remain, and 
inventories are still relatively low, which could sustain some  
precautionary stockpiling  and leave the market exposed to 
renewed shocks. However, the risk of a severe supply 
disruption has diminished. Stronger supply availability and 
uneven demand growth point to a more balanced market 
ahead, although inventories should support near-term prices. 
1.4
1.8
2.2
2.6
3.01,500
2,500
3,500
4,500
5,500
Jan-24 Nov-24 Sep-25 Jul-26
%
USD/oz
Spot gold 10y Inflation-indexed bonds (RHS)(inv)
112
116
120
124
128
1321,500
2,500
3,500
4,500
5,500
Jan-22 Jul-23 Jan-25 Jul-26
USD/oz
Spot gold Trade Weighted Dollar index (RHS)(inv)
65
75
85
95
105
Jul-26 Nov-26 Mar-27 Jul-27 Nov-27
USD/bbl
WTI (06/19/2026) WTI (06/12/2026)
WTI (05/19/2026)
40
50
60
70
80
90-7.5
-5.0
-2.5
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
3mma USD
(inverted)
Mb/d
Supply-demand deficit
WTI crude oil price (RHS)
Our forecast (RHS)
3- and 12-month market futures (RHS)

15 Gold, crude oil – at a glance

Anthony Naab, CFA 
Investment Strategist

### Page 20

Global Market Outlook 20

USD view

We have raised our three -month forecast for the DXY to 100, up from 98. We believe that the short-term focus is likely to 
shift away from geopolitical factors and return to US fundamentals. Recent robust US labour market data has attracted significant 
attention within the FX market, pushing US real interest rates to five-year highs. This has made hedging US assets increasingly 
costly, while market participants are now anticipating a less dovish stance from the Fed. The ongoing growth differential  
continues to provide structural  support for the USD. Should forthcoming data releases continue to deliver upside surprises in 
inflation and employment, the DXY could easily breach 100.  
We expect the DXY to ease modestly to 98 on a 12 -month horizon. We maintain our view of flat policy rates through 2026 
and a rate cut in 2027, which should eventually narrow interest-rate differentials and cap further USD upside. In our longer-term 
base-case scenario, as the initial commodity shock subsides and productivity -led growth stabili ses the global economy, the 
extreme safe-haven demand for the greenback will likely wane. While commodity exporters should remain structurally supported, 
currencies with strong policy buffers and safe-haven characteristics, such as the Singapore dollar (SGD) and offshore Chinese 
yuan (CNH), are well-positioned to remain resilient and recover steadily against the modestly softening USD.

Key charts

Fig. 34 USD interest-rate differentials rebounded but 
remain below their five-year average. Upside risk is 
likely limited on a 12-month-forward basis 
DXY, weighted interest rate differentials & five-year average

Fig. 35 JPY strength was offset by rising oil prices 
since the Middle East conflict began; conditions are 
anticipated to improve on the back of a peace deal 
USD/JPY and oil price

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Fig. 36 USD/CHF was unable to decisively surpass 
0.81, so it will likely remain near its five-year lows 
USD/CHF and technicals 
 Fig. 37 The Chinese yuan is strengthening as the PBoC 
lowers USD/CNH fixing 
USD/CNH and Yuan mid-rate

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

99.7
100 98
1.2
0.4
0.8
1.2
1.6
2.0
2.4
88
94
100
106
112
118
Jun-21 Jun-23 Jun-25 Jun-27
%
DXY
DXY
DXY 5y average
Forecast DXY
DXY weighted interest rate differentials (RHS)
5y average (rate)
160.3
80.8
50
65
80
95
110
125
140
145
150
155
160
165
Jun-25 Oct-25 Feb-26 Jun-26
USD/JPY Oil price (RHS)
Iran conflict:
28 Feb
0.79
0.76 0.76
0.82
0.70
0.78
0.86
0.94
1.02
Jun-21 Jun-23 Jun-25 Jun-27
USD/CHF 3m forecast
12m forecast Resistance
6.80
6.84
6.98
6.716.65
6.85
7.05
7.25
7.45
Jun-23 Jun-24 Jun-25 Jun-26
USD/CNH Yuan mid rate
Upper band Lower band

10 FX – at a glance

Jonathan Liang, CFA 
CIO, Fixed Income & FX 
Iris Yuen 
Investment Strategist

### Page 21

Global Market Outlook 21 
Fig. 38 Summary of currency forecasts and drivers

Currency 3m 12m Rationale

EUR/USD 1.15 1.19 
• EUR/USD range: Near-term Euro softness stems from acute domestic vulnerabilities. The 
Euro area faces a shallow recovery, given a fragile labour market losing momentum, 
particularly in Germany and France. The region's severe exposure to the energy shock 
worsens its terms of trade. In the longer term, as i) the energy crisis subsides and ii) the 
ECB normalises policy, narrowing rate differentials will drive the Euro's recovery modestly.

GBP/USD 1.34 1.30 
• GBP/USD range with bearish bias: The low implied volatility and balanced UK macro 
data anchor the pair near current levels. However, BoE Monetary Policy Committee 
members have signalled rates are quite restrictive and do not need to go higher, pointing to 
further cuts ahead that would compress the UK-US rate differential and weigh on the GBP. 
UK political uncertainty, including a potential Burnham leadership challenge raising fiscal 
loosening fears and compressing gilt yields, exposes potential downside risk.

USD/JPY 161 155 
• USD/JPY range with bearish bias: We view the threat of the official intervention zone in 
the 160-161 range as credible. Rising Japanese Government Bond yields are also 
beginning to trigger capital repatriation by domestic institutional investors. However, JPY 
strength will likely be tempered by Japan’s deteriorating terms of trade amid elevated 
energy prices and the BoJ’s cautious approach to policy normalisation.

AUD/USD 0.73 0.74 
• Bullish AUD/USD: The currency remains a primary beneficiary among major currencies. 
The RBA's hawkish hold at 4.35%, retaining an explicit willingness to tighten further "if 
required", keeps Australia's rate differential attractive. RBA Governor Bullock signalled 
inflation remains too high to turn dovish, limiting near-term AUD downside.

NZD/USD 0.59 0.60 
• Bullish NZD/USD: The market expects inflation to breach 4%, keeping the RBNZ under 
pressure to tighten. Meanwhile, the government unexpectedly lowered its five-year debt 
issuance target to NZD 159bn, easing fiscal credibility concerns. The New Zealand 
Treasury estimates Q1 GDP grew ~1%, suggesting a domestic recovery.

USD/CAD 1.38 1.38 
• Bearish USD/CAD: The BoC has held rates for five consecutive meetings, retaining an 
explicit tightening bias. Labour market data improves, Q2 growth rebounds. Canada's fiscal 
position was ranked as the strongest in the G7, providing a sovereign credibility premium.

USD/CNH 6.75 6.70 
• Bearish USD/CNH: The PBoC is guiding the CNH stronger via daily fixings. Chinese 
banks purchased a net CNY 285bn of FX from clients in May, reflecting domestic corporate 
demand to convert USD holdings. China's Ministry of Finance sold CNY 15bn of offshore 
sovereign bonds in Hong Kong lately, tightening offshore CNH liquidity.

USD/CHF 0.76 0.76 
• USD/CHF range with bearish bias: Inflation remains firmly within the SNB's 1-3% price 
stability range. We anticipate that the Swiss franc (CHF) will continue to serve as an 
effective hedge against Euro-area volatility, leading to a steady appreciation.

USD/SGD 1.28 1.26 
• Bearish USD/SGD: The MAS’s exchange-rate-based tightening framework is the primary 
domestic anchor for SGD strength. Core inflation has been revised up to 1.5-2.5% for 
2026, reinforcing the case for the MAS to keep the appreciation path intact. Singapore is 
also expanding its role as a global financial hub, deepening structural capital inflows.

USD/INR – 95 
• Rangebound USD/INR: Authorities have hiked import tariffs for gold and applied more FX 
measures to manage the pace of depreciation and stabilisation. The RBI also introduced 
concessional swap facilities for state-run firms to attract long-term overseas borrowing.

USD/MYR – 4.00 
• Bearish USD/MYR: As a net energy exporter, Malaysia is structurally cushioned from the 
Middle East conflict oil shock. Foreign central banks now hold 36% of all overseas 
Malaysian sovereign bond holdings, the highest in Bank Negara Malaysia (BNM) data 
going back to 2015, reflecting growing reserve asset demand for MYR assets.

USD/KRW – 1,530 
• Range with bullish bias: Foreign investors' portfolio holdings of South Korean equities 
have risen, which heightens risks for the KRW due to potential rebalancing outflows, profit-
taking outflows and increased USD/KRW buying to hedge underlying positions.

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

### Page 22

Global Market Outlook 22

Summary

Our stock-bond model (3 -6 months) has reduced its Overweight stance on global equities from 32% to 24%, due to 
frothy valuations in DM equities. The reduction came after three consecutive months of a large Overweight in equities between 
March and May, which helped deliver most of this year’s alpha. Meanwhile, more fundamental factors are bullish for equities, as 
the ISM new orders rose over the past three months  and the economic surprise index for major economies showed that more 
economic data has surprised to the upside in June. Market breadth also continues to show strong participation in the current 
global equity uptrend, with 83% of individual equity markets remain ing above their 200-day moving average (DMA). The YTD 
return stands at 1178%, which translates to 3.6% of outperformance relative to the 60/40 equity-bond benchmark. 
Our equity technical models (1-3 months) remain bullish on the S&P500 and MSCI AC World, but with greater conviction 
after the US-Iran interim deal. After indicating rising risks earlier in the month, the models revised the probability of bear market 
lower to 4.3% for S&P500 and 22.4% for MSCI AC World, largely driven by a fall in the Volatility Index (VIX), which currently sits 
below the 20% threshold. Higher market sensitivity to inflation shocks and weakening momentum are risks for MSCI AC World.  
Our market diversity indicator no longer flag s an MSCI Indonesia rebound after a 20+% rally from June’s low. MSCI 
Taiwan and MSCI Korea look quite stretched based on our market diversity indicators, but are yet to cross the critical thresholds.

Key chart  
Our stock-bond model 
reduced its equity 
Overweight as DM 
equities’ valuations look 
frothy. Fundamental and 
technical factors remain 
supportive of equities. 
 Fig. 39 Breakdown of our stock-bond rotation model’s scores  
Model score in June 2026 fell to +3 out of a maximum score of +5

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; 15-Jun-2026

VIX fell steeply below 
20% after the US-Iran 
interim deal. Probability  
of bear market is revised 
lower to merely 4.3% for 
the S&P500 and 22.4% 
for MSCI AC World.

Fig. 40 Our technical model turned bullish on the S&P500 
S&P500 Index; model’s bearish signal; technical support and resistance levels

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; 17-Jun-2026

-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Apr-24 Jul-24 Nov-24 Mar-25 Jun-25 Oct-25 Feb-26 Jun-26
Fundamental Valuation Market breadth Model
OW
Equities
OW 
Bonds
7,615
7,809
7,232
7,043
3,500
4,500
5,500
6,500
7,500
8,500
Jun-22 Feb-23 Oct-23 Jun-24 Feb-25 Oct-25 Jun-26
Index
Bearish signal S&P500 R1 R2 S1 S2

15 Quant perspective: Reduce equity 
Overweight due to frothy valuation

Francis Lim 
Senior Quantitative Strategist 
Maggie, Au Yeung 
Quantitative Analyst

### Page 23

Global Market Outlook 23 
Fig. 41 Long- and short-term quantitative models remain bullish risk assets 
Long-term models below have a typical time horizon of 3-6 months, while short-term models have a 1-3-month horizon

Long-term Stock or bond Global inflation-growth regime US recession model 
Current view Reduced equity Overweight Inflation rose, growth slowed 16% probability within the 
next 6 months 
What factors 
is this view 
based on? 
• Fundamental: +2. ISM new 
orders rose over the past three 
months, and more economic 
data surprised to the upside. 
Valuation: 0. DM equity 
valuations look frothy. Asian 
equity still looks cheap. 
• Market breadth: +1. 83% of 
equity markets are above their 
200DMAs, showing strong 
participation in global equity 
uptrend.  
• Global inflation rose to 2.8% 
y/y, above the long-term avg. of 
2%. Leading indicators and 
consensus expectations are 
pointing towards 2.3-2.4% over 
the next 6-12 months.  
• Global industrial production y/y 
fell to 1.6%, below the long-term 
2% avg. Consensus expects 
recovery to 2.2% over next 12 
months. Leading indicators are 
quite bullish, pointing to 4.8% y/y 
in six months. 
Negative factors 
• Conference Board leading 
indicator is negative at -3.1% y/y 
• Fed-rate-to-natural-rate ratio fell 
to 1.6x, which is still too 
restrictive.  
• ISM new orders/inventory ratio 
is at 1.1x, slightly bearish vs. 
long-term average of 1.17x.  
• Conference Board Consumer 
Confidence Index at -5.4% y/y. 
Key model 
factors 
• Economic activity, macro risk 
and surprise indices, corporate 
earnings, forward price-to-
earnings ratio and technical 
factors. 
• Tracks current and consensus 
estimates of inflation, industrial 
production and leading 
economic indicators for the US, 
Europe, the UK, China, India 
and South Korea. 
• Tracks current and consensus 
estimates of inflation, industrial 
production and leading 
economic indicators for the US, 
Europe, the UK, China, India 
and South Korea. 
How does it 
work? 
• A monthly scorecard of -5 to 5 
based on fundamental, 
valuation and market breadth 
factors to indicate relative 
preference for bonds and 
equities. A positive score 
favours equities and vice versa. 
• A classification of economic 
cycle based on recession, 
recovery, late cycle and 
stagflation and implications for 
long-term asset class returns. 
• A probability model based on 
regression. Long-term 
statistical tests are conducted 
to identify the four key 
economic factors above.

Short-term Technical analysis Investor positioning  
Current views Bullish equities (1-3 months) No new signals 
What factors 
is this view 
based on? 
• Bullish S&P500. Bear market probability sits at 
4.3%. Risk indicators, such as the VIX and EM FX 
volatility, remain subdued, while momentum signals 
have yet to turn negative.  
• Bullish MSCI AC World. Bear market prob. dropped 
to 22%. Elevated market sensitivity to inflation shocks 
and weaker momentum remain key risk factors.  
• Bullish EUR, GBP and AUD relative to USD. Risk 
sentiment is supportive of EUR/USD. Momentum 
factors for AUD/USD weakened but are still broadly 
supported. Interest differentials also continue to favour 
GBP/USD.  
• MSCI Indonesia was no longer flagged as 
oversold after the index rebounded by more 
than 20% from June’s low.  
• Investor positioning in US equities has 
improved from an eight-year high at +2 std 
deviations above historical average to +1 std 
deviation now.  
Key model 
factors 
• Market factors: Momentum, volatility, interest rate 
differentials, relative returns, inflation swap rates, 
economic surprises, etc. 
• Price action: Overbought conditions occur 
when prices rise sharply; oversold conditions 
happen when prices fall rapidly in a short time.  
How does it 
work? 
• Scanning through 7,000+ factors, the framework 
uses machine learning to forecast market regimes or 
future trends based on identified market drivers. 
• A market indicator based on fractal analysis 
that provides timely indication of investor 
positioning based on price actions.

Source: Standard Chartered

### Page 24

Global Market Outlook 24

FOUNDATION   FOUNDATION 
Summary View 
Moderate 
Balanced 
Aggressive 
 Summary 
Conservative 
Cash ▼ 4 4 4  Cash 10 
Fixed Income ▼ 56 36 16  Fixed Income 90 
Equity ▲ 34 54 74    
Gold ▲ 6 6 6    
Asset class 
     Asset class Moderate 
USD Cash ▼ 4 4 4  Cash 10 
DM IG Government Bonds* ▼ 20 11 3  Floating Rate Notes 45 
DM IG Corporate Bonds* ◆ 15 10 5  DM IG Govt (Short duration) 10 
DM HY Corporate Bonds ◆ 3 2 1  DM IG Corp (Short duration) 15 
EM USD Government Bonds ▲ 7 6 4  DM HY (Short duration) 5 
EM Local Ccy Government Bonds ◆ 3 2 0  EM USD Govt (Short duration) 5 
Asia USD Bonds ◆ 8 5 3  EM LCY Govt 5 
North America Equities ▲ 23 36 50  Asia USD bonds 5 
Europe ex-UK Equities ◆ 4 7 9   100 
UK Equities ▼ 0 1 2    
Japan Equities ◆ 2 3 4    
Asia ex-Japan Equities ▲ 4 7 10    
Gold ▲ 6 6 6    
  100 100 100

Legends:   ▲ Most preferred  | ▼ Least preferred  | ◆ Core holding 
Source: Standard Chartered 
All figures in % 
1. Allocation figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding. *FX-hedged 
2. The Conservative TAA is based off the SAA and is not overlaid with any tactical views

16 Foundation: Asset allocation summary

### Page 25

Global Market Outlook 25

FOUNDATION+ 
Summary View Moderate Balanced Aggressive 
Cash ▼ 4 3 3 
Fixed Income ▼ 48 29 12 
Equity ▲ 29 43 56 
Alternatives ◆ 20 25 29 
Asset class     
USD Cash ▼ 4 3 3 
DM IG Government Bonds* ▼ 17 9 2 
DM IG Corporate Bonds* ◆ 12 8 4 
DM HY Corporate Bonds ▼ 3 2 1 
EM USD Government Bonds ▲ 6 5 3 
EM Local Ccy Government Bonds ◆ 3 2 0 
Asia USD Bonds ◆ 7 4 2 
North America Equities ▲ 19 29 37 
Europe ex-UK Equities ◆ 3 5 7 
UK Equities ▼ 0 1 1 
Japan Equities ◆ 2 2 3 
Asia ex-Japan Equities ▲ 4 6 7 
Gold ▲ 5 5 4 
Hedge Fund Strategies ◆ 2 3 4 
Private Equity ◆ 2 5 8 
Private Real Assets ◆ 4 4 4 
Private Debt ◆ 5 6 7 
Digital Assets ◆ 2 2 2 
  100 100 100

Legends:   ▲ Most preferred  | ▼ Least preferred  | ◆ Core holding 
Source: Standard Chartered 
All figures in % 
1. Allocation figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding. *FX-hedged

16 Foundation+: Asset allocation summary

### Page 26

Global Market Outlook 26

Source: MSCI, JPMorgan, Citigroup, Dow Jones, HFRX, FTSE, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
*All performance shown in USD terms, unless otherwise stated 
*YTD performance data from 31 December 2025 to 18 June 2026; 1-week performance from 11 June 2026 to 18 June 2026 
1.0%
1.8%
0.4%
0.3%
0.9%
-2.1%
0.9%
-8.4%
0.8%
3.3%
-11.7%
-0.1%
-0.1%
-0.5%
-1.2%
-0.3%
-1.2%
-1.4%
-0.5%
-0.9%
-1.6%
-1.0%
0.2%
0.0%
0.2%
0.2%
0.2%
1.5%
1.3%
0.7%
0.5%
0.0%
0.6%
-0.8%
0.6%
1.1%
3.9%
5.5%
4.4%
-2.3%
3.6%
-6.2%
-1.6%
0.9%
8.0%
19.7%
6.4%
-0.8%
3.8%
0.3%
2.3%
6.3%
8.1%
0.2%
7.1%
7.4%
2.3%
2.7%
1.4%
7.6%
1.9%
-0.7%
2.6%
-15% -10% -5% 0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
1 Week
6.4%
7.8%
2.6%
1.9%
4.6%
17.7%
2.2%
41.5%
10.6%
-3.5%
32.5%
-2.5%
-0.6%
-0.4%
-1.5%
2.9%
-2.9%
-0.1%
5.1%
-2.9%
-2.0%
-2.5%
1.0%
-0.7%
1.8%
1.4%
0.3%
-6.4%
0.0%
2.1%
-1.3%
0.2%
0.1%
7.7%
6.6%
1.1%
12.0%
31.9%
14.9%
-4.2%
4.3%
17.7%
4.3%
-4.1%
65.0%
135.6%
-8.5%
-11.4%
6.7%
10.9%
16.9%
0.9%
31.0%
5.1%
19.7%
22.8%
7.3%
9.4%
9.8%
28.6%
9.9%
10.0%
11.9%
-40%-20% 0% 20%40%60%80%100%120%140%160%
Macro CTAs
Equity Long/Short
Event Driven
Relative Value
Composite (All strategies)
Diversified Commodity
Agriculture
Energy
Industrial Metal
Precious Metal
Crude Oil
Gold
Asia ex-Japan
SGD
CHF
CNH
CAD
NZD
AUD
JPY
GBP
EUR
Asia HC
Europe High Yield
US High Yield
DM High Yield Corporates
DM IG Corporates
Asia EM LC
EM Sovereign LC
EM Sovereign HC
EU Sovereign
US Sovereign
DM IG Sovereign
Global Property Equity/REITs
Utilities
Communication Services
Materials
IT
Industrial
Healthcare
Financial
Energy
Consumer Staples
Consumer Discretionary
Taiwan
South Korea
India
China
Middle East
Latam
Eastern Europe
Africa
Asia ex-Japan
United Kingdom
Japan (USD)
Japan (Local)
Western Europe (USD)
Western Europe (Local)
US
Emerging Markets (EM)
Developed Markets (DM)
Global High Divi Yield Equities
Global Equities
Year to Date
Bonds | Credit
Equity | Country & Region
Bonds | Sovereign
Alternatives
FX (against USD)
Equity | Sector
Commodity

18 Market performance summary*

### Page 27

Global Market Outlook 27

Currency 
USD 
(DXY) 
EUR/ 
USD 
GBP/ 
USD 
USD/ 
JPY 
AUD/ 
USD 
NZD/ 
USD 
USD/ 
CAD 
USD/ 
CNH 
USD/ 
CHF 
Oil  
(WTI, 
USD/ 
bbl) 
Gold  
(USD/ 
oz) 
Fed  
policy rate 
(upper 
bound) 
US  
Treasury  
10y yield 
(%) 
ECB 
policy 
rate

3m forecast 100 1.15 1.34 161 0.73 0.59 1.38 6.75 0.76 80 4,750 3.75% 4.25-4.50% 2.25%

12m forecast 98 1.19 1.30 155 0.74 0.60 1.38 6.70 0.76 70 5,100 3.50%  
(Jun-27) 
4.25-4.50% 
(Jun-27) 
2.0%  
(Jun-27)

Source: Standard Chartered

JUL   1 Jul > EC: CPI  OCT   Oct > China: CCP Plenum 
   1 Jul > US: PMI     1 Oct > US: PMI 
   2 Jul > US: Nonfarm Payrolls     2 Oct > EC: CPI 
   7-8 Jul > Turkiye: NATO Summit     2 Oct > US: Nonfarm Payrolls

14 Jul > US: CPI

12-18 Oct > Thailand: IMF and World Bank 
Annual Meetings 
   23 Jul > EC: ECB policy meeting     14 Oct > US: CPI 
   24 Jul > EC: PMI     23 Oct > EC: PMI 
   30 Jul > US: Fed policy meeting     29 Oct > US: Fed policy meeting 
   30 Jul > UK: BoE policy meeting     29 Oct > EC: ECB policy meeting 
   31 Jul > JP: BoJ policy meeting     30 Oct > JP: BoJ policy meeting 
   31 Jul > EC: CPI      
     NOV   2 Nov > US: PMI 
AUG   3 Aug > US: PMI     3 Nov > US: US Midterm Elections 
   7 Aug > US: Nonfarm Payrolls     4 Nov > EC: CPI 
   12 Aug > US: CPI     5 Nov > UK: BoE policy meeting 
   21 Aug > EC: PMI     6 Nov > US: Nonfarm Payrolls 
        10 Nov > US: CPI 
SEP

1 Sep > EC: CPI 
    18-19 Nov > China: APEC Economic Leaders 
Summit 
   1 Sep > US: PMI     23 Nov > EC: PMI 
   4 Sep > US: Nonfarm Payrolls      
   10 Sep > EC: ECB policy meeting  DEC   1 Dec > EC: CPI 
   11 Sep > US: CPI     1 Dec > US: PMI 
   12-13 Sep > India: BRICS+ Summit     4 Dec > US: Nonfarm Payrolls 
   17 Sep > US: Fed policy meeting     10 Dec > US: Fed policy meeting 
   17 Sep > UK: BoE policy meeting     10 Dec > US: CPI 
   18 Sep > JP: BoJ policy meeting     14-15 Dec > US: G20 Leaders Summit 
   22-29 Sep > US: UN General Assembly     16 Dec > EC: PMI 
   23 Sep > EC: PMI     17 Dec > UK: BoE policy meeting 
        17 Dec > EC: ECB policy meeting 
        18 Dec > JP: BoJ policy meeting

Legends: ▬ Central bank policy   | ▬ Geopolitics   | ▬ Economic data  
X – Date not confirmed  |  ECB – European Central Bank  |  FOMC – Federal Open Market Committee (US)  |  BoJ – Bank of Japan  |   
BoE – Bank of England

19 Our key forecasts and calendar events

### Page 28

Global Market Outlook 28

Time is your most precious commodity – be sure to spend it wisely 
Time is undoubtedly valuable. The days may seem long, but the years are short. So, make the choice 
to spend your time wisely. Whether you’re setting out on your investment journey, navigating the 
intricacies of mid -life wealth planning or fortifying assets  for your golden years, invest time today to 
ensure your wealth strategy is aligned to what’s right for you – Today, Tomorrow and Forever. 
Setting aside the time now to review your plan will pay dividends in the future. Markets have moved. 
Your portfolio’s current asset allocation may no longer be optimally positioned to maximise the 
opportunities ahead. Ask yourself the following: Am I holding too much cash? Am I sufficiently allocating 
to growth assets for the long term? Is my portfolio diversified? Am I capturing the best opportunities? 
And most importantly, is my wealth working hard for me so that I don’t have to? 
Use our SC Wealth Select framework and advisory specialists to help guide you through this process.

Purpose 
Today,  
Tomorrow,  
Forever 
Our approach to helping you grow and manage 
your wealth starts with you. We use a goals -
aware approach to understand your vision of 
Today, Tomorrow and Forever for yourself, your 
family and beyond, and then design portfolios to 
meet your various needs.  
Using our ‘Today, Tomorrow and Forever’ 
approach, we ensure your wealth needs for the 
near term (Today) are met, while ensuring your 
wealth needs for the decades ahead (Tomorrow 
and Forever) are also planned for.  
Your vision of ‘Today, Tomorrow and Forever’ is 
unique to you. Our specialists partner with you to 
build well -diversified, long -term Foundation 
portfolios, aligned to your Today, Tomorrow and 
Forever needs. Opportunistic ideas are added to 
capture short -term opportunities, a nd sufficient 
protection is included to address the objectives of 
you and your family. 
Today, Tomorrow and Forever 
Approach 
Planning for Today 
Requires ensuring liquidity and income 
flows take centre stage 
Securing Tomorrow 
Entails a well-diversified investment and 
protection portfolio with a focus on growth, 
ensuring inflation is accounted for and risks 
are mitigated 
Building for Forever 
Involves greater focus on long-term returns 
given the time horizon of your portfolio can 
be measured in decades, and might also 
include business interests, real estate, 
collectibles or charitable funds

SC Wealth Select  
 Managing your wealth through the decades – Today, Tomorrow and Forever

### Page 29

Global Market Outlook 29

Principles 
that stand the 
test of time 
Adhering to time-tested principles, to ensure your 
investment decisions remain robust and 
consistently applied, is paramount to your 
success Today, Tomorrow and Forever. We use 
five Wealth Principles to guide and guardrail your 
wealth decisions.

Discipline – ensure consistency and 
prudence over your emotions 
• Reacting to emotions , such as optimism and 
fear, can lead to poor investment decisions at 
the worst times 
• Have a plan and stick to it – this helps you to 
stay focused on the bigger picture

Diversification – simply put, don’t put 
all your eggs in one basket 
• Reduce risk by holding a variety of financial 
assets. Multi -asset diversification in your 
Foundation portfolio is important 
• As a guide, make sure your portfolio contains 
a variety of asset classes and investments 
that have low correlation with one another

Time in the Market – a more robust 
strategy than timing the market

• Predicting market selloffs is challenging, and 
timing your exit and re-entry is difficult 
• Missing out on the best performing days of a 
market can have a significantly detrimental 
impact on your portfolio 
• ‘Time in the market’ and buying the market 
with a longer -term view provide more 
consistent returns that can ride out bumps 
along the way

Risk and Return – make sure the risk 
is worth the return 
• To achieve higher investment returns, you will 
likely have to accept a greater level of risk in 
your portfolio 
• Therefore, it’s important to understand the 
risks and manage these on an ongoing basis

Protection – don’t let the unexpected 
catch you unprepared 
• Even though you may feel healthy, or 
financially stable now, protection offers the 
ability to overcome times of financial 
uncertainty and mitigate the long-term impact 
of unforeseen events on your wealth 
• A good protection plan not only safeguards 
your wealth today, but also considers the 
value of your future earnings over your 
lifetime, in today’s terms

Advisory 
Process 
Following a 
holistic 
approach to 
managing  
your wealth 
We follow a rigorous process to ensure your 
needs and objectives are well -understood, and 
your portfolio is well-aligned and manage s to  
deliver on these objectives. 
However, markets constantly evolve and your 
needs change. Hence, we encourage you to 
undertake regular portfolio reviews to ensure your 
portfolio remains aligned to your Today, 
Tomorrow and Forever objectives. This proactive 
approach includes strategic reb alancing based 
on insights from our Chief Investment Office.

Learn more 
Scan the QR code below to learn more about 
our approach to growing, managing and 
protecting your wealth.

The five-step process

Showcase 
Learn how  
our advisory framework  
can help you 
Discover 
Let us understand 
your needs, 
preferences and 
goals better 
Propose 
We’ll design a  
Foundation portfolio with 
Opportunistic overlays, 
which is tailored for you 
Implement 
Allow us to 
implement your 
portfolio seamlessly 
and efficiently 
Monitor & Review 
It’s important to  
regularly review  
and rebalance  
your portfolio 
Please be sure to reach out to your Relationship Manager today to arrange a portfolio review.

### Page 30

Market views on-the-go 
MVOG

SC Wealth Insights 
Find out more

YouTube

Facebook

LinkedIn

PvB LinkedIn

SC Money 
Insights 
4 podcasts shows on Spotify 
and Apple platforms

Spotify

Apple Podcasts

Speak to your Relationship Manager/Investment Advisor today for access to our security specific publications.

Access our views 24/7 on key platforms

### Page 31

Global Market Outlook 31

1 Explanatory notes

### Page 32

Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. While CFRA exercised due care in compiling this analysis,
CFRA, ITS TH IRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS, AND ALL RELATED ENTITIES SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS
FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, to the full extent permitted by law, regard ing the accuracy, completeness, or
usefulness of this information and assumes no liability with respect to the consequences of relying on this information for

and such content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. CFRA and any third -party providers, as well as
their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents do not guarantee the accuracy, completene ss, timeliness or
availability of such content. In no event shall CFRA, its affiliates, or their third -party suppliers be liable for any direct, indirect,
special, or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including lost income or l ost profit and opportunity

Banking activities may be carried out internationally by different branches, subsidiaries and affiliates within the Standard
Chartered Group according to local regulatory requirements. Opinions may contain outright “buy”, “sell”, “hold” or other opinions.
The time horizon of this opinion is dependent on prevailing market conditions and there is no planned frequency for updates t o
the opinion. This opinion is not independent of Standard Chartered Group’s trading strategies or positions. Standard Chartere d

Group and/or its affiliates or its respective officers, directors, employee benefit programmes or employees, including persons
involved in the preparation or issuance of this document may at any time, to the extent permitted by applicable law and/or
regulation, be long or short any securities or financial instruments referred to in this document or have material interest in any
such securities or related investments. Therefore, it is possible, and you should assume, that Standard Chartered Group has a

this company/issuer. All covering strategist are licensed to provide investment recommendations under Monetary Authority of
Singapore or Hong Kong Monetary Authority. This document must not be forwarded or otherwise made available to any other
person without the express written consent of Standard Chartered Group.
Sustainable Investments
Any ESG data used or referred to has been provided by Morningstar, Sustainalytics, MSCI or Bloomberg. Refer to 1) Morningstar

website under Sustainable Investing, 2) Sustainalytics website under ESG Risk Ratings, 3) MCSI website under ESG Business
Involvement Screening Research and 4) Bloomberg green, social & sustainability bonds guide for more information. The ESG
data is as at the date of publication based on data provided, is for informational purpose only and is not warranted to be complete,
timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose, and it may be subject to change. The ESG data providers may not provide

data coverage of all companies or securities in our Sustainable Investment Universe or Fund Select funds. As a result, a smal l
subset of companies or securities will not be in scope for exclusionary screening. Sustainable Investments (SI): This refers to
funds that have been classified as ‘ESG Intentional Investments - Overall’ by Morningstar. SI funds have explicitly stated in their
prospectus and regulatory filings that they either incorporate ESG factors into the investment process or have a thematic focus

on the environment, gender diversity, low carbon, renewable energy, water or community development. For equity, it refers to
shares/stocks issued by companies with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating of Low/Negligible. For bonds, it refers to debt
instruments issued by issuers with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating of Low/Negligible, and/or those being certified green, social,
sustainable bonds by  Bloomberg. For structured products, it refers to products that are issued by any issuer who has a

Sustainable Finance framework that aligns with Standard Chartered’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework, with
underlying assets that are part of the Sust ainable Investment universe or separately approved by Standard Chartered’s
Sustainable Finance Governance Committee. Sustainalytics ESG risk ratings shown are factual and are not an indicator that the
product is classified or marketed as “green”, “sustainable” or similar under any particular classification system or framework.

Bahrain: This document is being distributed in Bahrain by Standard Chartered Bank, Bahrain Branch, having its address at P.O.
29, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain, is a branch of Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed by the Central Bank of Bahrain as a
conventional r etail bank. Botswana: This document is being distributed in Botswana by, and is attributable to, Standard
Chartered Bank Botswana Limited which is a financial institution licensed under the Section 6 of the Banking Act CAP 46.04 and

### Page 33

Global Market Outlook 33
is listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange. Brunei Darussalam: This document is being distributed in Brunei Darussalam by,
and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Brunei Branch) | Registration Number RFC/61 and Standard Chartered
Securities (B) Sdn Bhd | Registration Number RC20001003. Standard Chartered Ba nk is incorporated in England with limited
liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18. Standard Chartered Securities (B) Sdn Bhd is a limited liability company

registered with the Registry of Companies with Registration Number RC20001003 and lic ensed by Brunei Darussalam Central
Bank as a Capital Markets Service License Holder with License Number BDCB/R/CMU/S3 -CL and it is authorised to conduct
Islamic investment business through an Islamic window. China Mainland: This document is being distributed in China by, and
is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited which is mainly regulated by National Financial Regulatory

Administration (NFRA), State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), and People’ s Bank of China (PBOC). Hong Kong:
In Hong Kong, this document, except for any portion advising on or facilitating any decision on futures contracts trading, is
distributed by Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (“SCBHK”), a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC. SCBHK has
its registered address at 32/F, Standard Chartered Bank Building, 4 -4A Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong and is regulated

by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and registered with the Securities and Futures Commission (“SFC”) to carry on Type 1
(dealing in securities), Type 4 (advising on securities), Type 6 (advising on corporate finance) and Type 9 (asset management)
regulated activity under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) (“SFO”) (CE No. AJI614). The contents of this
document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong and you are advised to exercise caution in relation

to any offer set out herein. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of this document, you should obtain independent
professional advice. Any product named herein may not be offered or sold in Hong Kong by means of any document at any time
other than to “professional investors” as defined in the SFO and any rules made under that ordinance. In addition, this document
may not be issued or possessed for the purpo ses of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, and any interests may not be

disposed of, to any person unless such person is outside Hong Kong or is a “professional investor” as defined in the SFO and
any rules made under that ordinance, or as otherwise may be permitted by that ordinance. In Hong Kong, Standard Chartered
Global Private Bank is the private banking division of SCBHK, a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC. Ghana: Standard
Chartered Bank Ghana Limited accepts no liability and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising directly or indirectl y

from a financial adviser on the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment
to invest in an investment. To unsubscribe from receiving further updates, pl ease send an email to feedback . ghana  @ sc  . com.
Please do not reply to this email. Call our Priority Banking on 0302610750 for any questions or service queries. You are advised
not to send any confidential and/or important information to Standard Chartered via e -mail, as Standard Chartered makes no

representations or warranties as to the security or accuracy of any information transmitted via e -mail. Standard Chartered shall
not be responsible for any loss or damage suffered by you arising from your decision to use e -mail to communicate with the
Bank. India: This document is being distributed in India by Standard Chartered in its capacity as a distributor of mutual funds
and referrer of any other third party financial products. Standard Chartered does not offer any ‘Investment Advice’ as defined in

the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 or otherwise. Services/products related
securities business offered by Standard Charted are not intended for any person, who is a resident of any jurisdiction, the l aws
of which  imposes prohibition on soliciting the securities business in that jurisdiction without going through the registration
requirements and/or prohibit the use of any information contained in this document. Indonesia: This document is being

distributed in Indonesia by Standard Chartered Bank, Indonesia branch, which is a financial institution licensed and supervis ed
by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (Financial Service Authority) and Bank Indonesia. Jersey: In Jersey, Standard Chartered Global
Private Bank is the Registered Business Name of the Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank. The Jersey Branch of Standard
Chartered Bank is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission. Copies of the latest audited accounts of Standard

Chartered Bank are available from its principal place of business in Jersey: PO Box 80, 15 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4
8PT. Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with limited liability by Royal Charter in 1853 Reference Number ZC
18. The Principal Office of the Company is situated in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered
Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential

Regulation Authority. The Jersey Branch of Standa rd Chartered Bank is also an authorised financial services provider under
license number 44946 issued by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority of the Republic of South Africa. Jersey is not part of the
United Kingdom and all business transacted with Stand ard Chartered Bank, Jersey Branch and other SC Group Entity outside
of the United Kingdom, are not subject to some or any of the investor protection and compensation schemes available under

United Kingdom law. Kenya: This document is being distributed in Kenya by and is attributable to Standard Chartered Bank
Kenya Limited. Investment Products and Services are distributed by Standard Chartered Investment Services Limited, a wholly
owned subsidiary of Standard Charter ed Bank Kenya Limited that is licensed by  the Capital Markets Authority in Kenya, as a
Fund Manager. Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited is regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya. Malaysia: This document

is being distributed in Malaysia by Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad (“SCBMB”). Recipients in Malaysia should contact

### Page 34

Global Market Outlook 34
SCBMB in relation to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. This document has not been reviewed by
the Securities Commission Malaysia. The product lodgement, registration, submission or approval by the Securities Commission
of Malaysia does not amount to nor indicate recommendation or endorsement of the product, service  or promotional activity.
Investment products are not deposits and are not obligations of, not guaranteed by, and not protected by SCBMB or any of the

affiliates or s ubsidiaries, or by Perbadanan Insurans Deposit Malaysia, any government or insurance agency. Investment
products are subject to investment risks, including the possible loss of the principal amount invested. SCBMB expressly disclaim
any liability and respo nsibility for any loss arising directly or indirectly (including special, incidental or consequential loss or
damage) arising from the financial losses of the Investment Products due to market condition. Nigeria: This document is being

Central Bank of Nigeria. SCB Nigeria accepts no liability for any loss or damage arising directly or indirectly (including sp ecial,
incidental or consequential loss or damage) from your use of these documents. You should seek advice from a financial adviser
on the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment to invest in an
investment. To unsubscribe fr om receiving further updates, please send an email to clientcare . ng @ sc . com requesting to be

security or accuracy of any information transmitted via e-mail. Pakistan: This document is being distributed in Pakistan by, and
attributable to Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited having its registered office at PO Box 5556, I.I Chundrigar Road
Karachi, which is a banking company registered with State Bank of Pakistan under Banking Companies Ordinance 1962 and is
also having licensed issued by Securities & Exchange Commission of Pakistan for Security Advisors. Standard Chartered Bank

(Pakistan) Limited acts as a distributor of mutual funds and referrer of other third -party financial products. Singapore: This
document is being distributed in Singapore by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited (Registration
No. 201224747C/ GST Group Registration No. MR -8500053-0, “SCBSL”). Recipients in Singapore should contact SCBSL in
relation to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. SCBSL is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of

Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed to conduct banking business in Singapore under the Singapore Banking Act, 1970.
Standard Chartered Global Private Bank is the private banking division of SCBSL. IN RELATION TO ANY SECURITY OR
SECURITIES-BASED DERIVATIVES CONTRACT REFERRED TO IN THIS DOCUMENT, THIS DOCUMENT, TOGETHER
WITH THE ISSUER DOCUMENTATION, SHALL BE DEEMED AN INFORMATION MEMORANDUM (AS DEFINED IN
SECTION 275 OF THE SECURITIES AND FUTURES ACT, 2001 (“SFA”)). THIS DOCUMENT IS INTENDED FOR

THE SECURITY OR SECURITIES-BASED DERIVATIVES CONTRACT MAY ONLY BE ACQUIRED AT A CONSIDERATION
OF NOT LESS THAN S$200,000 (OR ITS EQUIVALENT IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY) FOR EACH TRANSACTION. Further,
in relation to any security or securities-based derivatives contract, neither this document nor the Issuer Documentation has been
registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the SFA. Accordingly, this document and any other
document or material in connection wit h the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or purchase, of the product may not be

circulated or distributed, nor may the product be offered or sold, or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription o r
purchase, whether directly or indirect ly, to persons other than a relevant person pursuant to section 275(1) of the SFA, or any
person pursuant to section 275(1A) of the SFA, and in accordance with the conditions specified in section 275 of the SFA, or
pursuant to, and in accordance with the c onditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. In relation to any collective

investment schemes referred to in this document, this document is for general information purposes only and is not an offerin g
document or prospectus (as defined in the SFA). This document is not, nor is it intended to be (i) an offer or solicitation of an
offer to buy or sell any capital markets product; or (ii) an advertisement of an offer or intended offer of any capital marke ts
product. Deposit Insurance Scheme: Singa pore dollar deposits of non -bank depositors are insured by the Singapore Deposit

Insurance Corporation, for up to S$100,000 in aggregate per depositor per Scheme member by law. Foreign currency deposits,
dual currency investments, structured deposits and other investment products are not insured. This advertisement has not been
reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. Taiwan: SC Group Entity or Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) Limited (“SCB
(Taiwan)”) may be involved in the financial instruments contained herein or other related financial instruments. The author of this

document may have discussed the information contained herein with other employees or agents of SC or SCB (Taiwan). The
author and the above-mentioned employees of SC or SCB (Taiwan) may have taken related actions in respect of the information
involved (including communication with customers of SC or SCB (Taiwan) as to the information contained herein). The opinions
contained in this document may change, or differ from the opinions of employees of SC or SCB (Taiwan). SC and SCB (Taiwan)

will not provide any notice of any changes to or differences between the above -mentioned opinions. This document may cover
companies with which SC or SCB (Taiwan) seeks to do business at times and issuers  of financial instruments. Therefore,
investors should understand that the information contained herein may serve as specific purposes as a result of conflict of
interests of SC or SCB (Taiwan). SC, SCB (Taiwan), the employees (including those who have dis cussions with the author) or

### Page 35

customers of SC or SCB (Taiwan) may have an interest in the products, related financial instruments or related derivative
financial products contained herein; invest in those products at various prices and on different market conditions; have different
or conflicting interests in those products. The potential impacts include market makers’ re lated activities, such as dealing,
investment, acting as agents, or performing financial or consulting services in relation to any of the products referred to i n this

document. UAE: DIFC - Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853
Reference Number ZC18.The Principal Office of the Company is situated in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V
5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is a uthorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct
Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. Standard Chartered Bank, Dubai International Financial Centre having its offices

Clients and is not directed at Retail Clients as defined by the DFSA Rulebook. In the DIFC we are authorised to provide financial
services only to clients who qualify as Professional Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail Clients. As a Professional
Client you will not be  given the higher retail client protection and compensation rights and if you use your right to be classified
as a Retail Client we will be unable to provide financial services and products to you as we do not hold the required license  to

undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shariah Supervisory Committee.
Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank website in
the Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by the Central Bank of
the U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide

financial analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodities Authority
Decision No. 48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis. Uganda: Our Investment products and
services are distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an
investment adviser. United Kingdom: In the UK, Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority

by Standard Chartered Bank for the purposes of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Global Private
Bank) is also an authorised financial services provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial Advisory
and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal requirements designed

to promote the independence of investment research, and that  it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the
dissemination of investment research. Vietnam: This document is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard
Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulated by St ate Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should
contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited for any queries regarding any content of this document. Zambia: This

document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company incorporated in Zambia and registered as a
commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws
of Zambia.

---
## Document 329: Q2 Tech Performance Review_ Memory Wins, Chips Dominate (2026-07-01)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Q2 Tech Performance Review_ Memory Wins, Chips Dominate (2026-07-01).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Deutsche Bank
Research

### Page 3

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20262
SUMMARY: Memory wins, chips dominate
In Q2, equities ran largely uncorrelated from events in Iran, driven
by a tech rally despite ongoing concerns over the war. Strong
earnings growth fuelled the Mag 7’s rise in April (+15%) and May
(+7%). Then last month, risk assets sold off despite the June 15
US-Iran peace deal, as worries over rising Fed hawkishness, the
memory shortage‘s inflationary impact, and doubts over AI

demand sustainability triggered a sell-off in AI stocks. Still, despite
the meltdown over the last few weeks, tech delivered a remarkable
run this quarter, with AI excitement significantly outweighing
macro and geopolitical concerns around the war. The Mag 7 ended
up +12% on the quarter.
The spotlight has been on memory chipmakers in particular, which
drove most of tech’s outperformance – and its June selloff. The
ongoing memory shortage has led to rising returns for Micron

(+242% q/q), SK Hynix (+228% q/q) and Samsung Electronics
(+100% q/q), all of which have now joined the $trn dollar market-
cap club. Asian equities followed, with the Nikkei 225 (+37% q/q)
and Kospi (+67% q/q) outperforming their Western counterparts.
What will Q3 bring? Micron’s results were probably enough to
restore confidence in AI-driven demand, particularly in data-centre
memory. But volatility under a more hawkish Fed will likely persist,

and BIS has warned of AI exuberance risk ending in a lengthy
investment bust. In crypto, payments and fintech, expect continued
pressure as investors rotate into AI. Tech should remain the
underlying volatility driver, with the US most exposed.
Sources: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP. Updated June 30, 2026. Returns in local currency.
… pushing up Asian equities in particular
70
170
270
370
470 S&P 500 Mag 7 CSI 300 tech
STOXX 600 tech Kospi Nikkei 225

Memory chipmakers have had geometric rises…
70
120
170
220
270
320
370
420
31-Mar 30-Apr 31-May 30-Jun
Micron Philly Sox Semiconductor SK Hynix
Samsung Electronics S&P 500 Nvidia

### Page 4

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20263
1. GLOBAL INDUSTRY BREAKDOWN
Semiconductors and chip-related stocks are tech’s clear group-stage winners in Q2 and YTD, led by Chinese and
other Asian companies like GigaDevices (+248% q/q) and ACM Research (+210% q/q). Outside of semis, equipment
and tech hardware, the rest of the field struggled. Payments and IT services continue to underperform in both AI
risk-on and risk-off environments, with this quarter also weighed down by Accenture’s (-37% q/q) weak FQ326

earnings in June. Software remains the worst performer, as AI disruption continues to hit companies including Intuit
(-39% q/q), Horizon Robotics (-38% q/q) and Sensetime (-27% q/q).
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP. Updated June 30, 2026.
Median total returns for tech sectors over Q2 vs. YTD returns
67
43
32
4 1
-3 -3 -5 -5
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
Median quarter return (USD) all segments YTD

### Page 5

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20264
2. SEMICONDUCTORS
Memory chipmakers will continue to benefit from persistent industry imbalances, with Micron and SK Hynix the standout
performers. Micron’s earnings beat ignited hopes about AI-fuelled growth and helped push back against bubble fears. SK
Hynix has also confirmed it will seek over $29bn via the issue of ADRs on the Nasdaq. Intel (+216% q/q) surged on a

strong earnings beat and accelerating foundry momentum, with reports that Apple is evaluating Intel's 18A process and
Google has reportedly placed orders for more than 3mn TPUs for 2028. Elsewhere, the Philadelphia Semiconductor
Index (+88% q/q) posted its best quarterly performance since the index began in the early 1990s.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP. Updated June 30, 2026. Returns in local currency.
242 228 216
100 88
54

15 15
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
Micron SK Hynix Intel Samsung SOX ASML S&P 500 Nvidia
Q2 YTD
Micron’s revenue outlook
was at $50bn for the
fiscal fourth quarter
running through August,
well above the $43bn
analyst consensus.
Despite impressive
growth and a 75%
gross margin
reporting in May,
moderate sales
guidance from
Nvidia drew
lukewarm response
from investors.
Q2 vs. YTD 2026 total returns

### Page 6

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20265
3. MAGNIFICENT 7
The Mag 7 started Q2 on a high, driven by strong earnings growth against a backdrop of hyperscaler capex
expected to exceed $700bn this year. In June, elevated large-cap tech positioning combined with AI concerns
temporarily dragged the index into correction territory, although the group recovered by quarter-end (+12% q/q).
Microsoft (+1% q/q) continues to lag YTD, as dual concerns over its ability to compete on AI spending and AI

disruption risk persist.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP. Updated June 30, 2026.
Mag 7 total returns
23
15 14 14 13
1
-1
-30
-20
-10
-
10
20
30
Alphabet Inc NVIDIA Corp Amazon.com Inc Apple Inc Tesla Inc Microsoft Corp Meta Platforms Inc
Q2 YTD

### Page 7

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20266
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
2010 2011 2012 2014 2015 2016 2018 2019 2020 2022 2023 2024 2026
% of S&P 500
% of Nasdaq 100
3.1 MAGNIFICENT 7
Large-cap tech stocks are down significantly, dragging the S&P 500 down modestly, even as two-thirds of the overall
stocks and industries are up, alongside small- and mid-caps. Still, according to our strategists, there is an ongoing

rotation away from large-cap tech and into other sectors and regions that have lagged.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP. Updated June 30, 2026.
Market cap of Mag 7 as a % of the S&P 500‘s and Nasdaq 100 market cap

### Page 8

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20267
4. REGIONAL BREAKDOWN
Chinese stocks are leading YTD and quarterly gains, buoyed by local memory chipmakers, while off-shore HK-
listed tech continues to suffer from old-guard heavyweights like Xiaomi (-32% q/q), Alibaba (-21% q/q), and
Tencent  (-10% q/q). Elsewhere, European tech equities saw some growth but suffered substantial outflows
during the war, with software companies particularly affected over the last six months.

Top global tech indices – Q2 vs. YTD total returns
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP. Updated June 30, 2026. Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP. Indexed to 100. Updated June 30, 2026.
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1000
08/24
09/24
10/24
11/24
12/24
01/25
02/25
03/25
04/25
05/25
06/25
07/25
08/25
09/25
10/25
11/25
12/25
01/26
02/26
03/26
04/26
05/26
06/26
Chinese vs US AI-related companies’ stock price returns

(Aug 2024 = 100)
Cambricon
Nvidia
Microsoft
Google
Alibaba
81
55
34
-3
-20
-
20
40
60
80
100
CSI 300 Tech Nasdaq 100
Tech
EUR STOXX
600 Tech
Hang Seng
Tech
Q2 YTD

### Page 9

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20268
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
30-Jun 25-Jul 19-Aug 13-Sep 8-Oct 2-Nov 27-Nov 22-Dec 16-Jan 10-Feb 7-Mar 1-Apr 26-Apr 21-May 15-Jun
Crypto Fintech AI
5. CRYPTO, AI & FINTECH
Crypto extended its struggles in Q2, falling below $60k in June as a renewed sell-off was driven by a more hawkish
Fed outlook, record institutional ETF outflows, uncertainty over the CLARITY ACT, and rotation of risk capital into AI

(see here). Our Fintech and blockchain ETF remains the worst-performing segment YTD (-17%), weighed down by
ongoing pain at companies like Canton Strategic Holdings (-14%) and Circle (-34%). Fintech sentiment remains weak
more broadly, with the steady demand deterioration coupled with long-term fears around AI disintermediation.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Bloomberg Finance LP.  Data updated June 30. The following are based on AIQ ETF, BLOK US Equi ty ETF, and ARKF US Equity ETF.

Crypto, AI & Fintech performance rebased to June 2025

### Page 10

Marion Laboure | Camilla Siazon |  Q2 2026 Tech Performance Review |  July  1, 20269
6. M&A
After a halt in April, Q2 was a blockbuster quarter for mega-cap AI IPOs, with Anthropic ($65bn) and OpenAI ($852bn)
filings. Beyond IPOs, semiconductors M&A led the way, including Analog Devices’ proposal to acquire Empower
Semiconductor for $1.5bn in May and ONSemi’s $6.8bn acquisition of Synaptics Inc, announced on 25 June.
Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Dealogic. Values up to June 29.

77,976 90,337
50,537
26,076
90,381
123,334
108,317
80,023
187,357
56,050
204,890
24,870
43,256
162,248
129,181
5,917
10,358
11,511
18,420
11,879
11,032 40,364
16,422
11,343
6,504
28,277
37,882
49,845
36,391
12,993
0
50,000
100,000
150,000
200,000
250,000
Apr-25 May-25 Jun-25 Jul-25 Aug-25 Sep-25 Oct-25 Nov-25 Dec-25 Jan-26 Feb-26 Mar-26 Apr-26 May-26 Jun-26
$mns
US and Europe deal value at announcement
US Western Europe

### Page 11

opinions, and research from Deutsche Bank Research, economists, strategists, and research analysts.  Accordingly, you should assume that content in this document is based on
or was previously published and provided to Deutsche Bank clients who may have already traded on the basis of it.
Any views or estimates expressed in this material reflect the current views of the author(s) and may differ from the views and estimates of Deutsche Bank AG, its affiliates, other

Deutsche Bank personnel, and other materials published by Deutsche Bank.  The content in this material is valid as of the date shown on the first page and may change without
notice.  Deutsche Bank has no obligation to provide any updates or changes to the information herein.
This material should not be used as a basis for trading securities or other financial products and should not be considered to be a recommendation or individual investment
advice for any particular person. It does not constitute an offer, solicitation, or an invitation by or on behalf of Deutsche Bank to any person to buy or sell any security or

financial instrument. Nothing in this material constitutes investment, legal, accounting or tax advice.  Deutsche Bank engages in securities transactions, including on a
proprietary basis, and may do so in a manner inconsistent with the views or information expressed in this material.
While information in this material has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, neither Deutsche Bank AG nor any of its affiliates makes any representation or

Deutsche Bank AG Frankfurt, licensed to carry on banking business and to provide financial services under the supervision of the European Central Bank (ECB) and the German
Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). In the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, a member of
the London Stock Exchange, authorized by UK’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and subject to limited regulation by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (under

number 150018) and by the PRA. This information is distributed in Hong Kong by Deutsche Bank AG, Hong Kong Branch, in Korea by Deutsche Securities Korea Co. and in
Singapore by Deutsche Bank AG, Singapore Branch. In Japan this information is approved and/or distributed by Deutsche Securities Limited, Tokyo Branch. In Australia, retail
clients should obtain a copy of a Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) relating to any financial product referred to in this report and consider the PDS before making any

prior written consent.  You also agree that you shall not scrape, extract, download, upload, sell or offer for sale any of the content in this material, and you agree not to use, or
cause to be used, any computerized or other manual or automated program or mechanism, tool, or process, including any scraperor spider robot, to access, extract, download,
scrape, data mine, display, transmit, or publish, any of the content in this material.
Appendix 1

---
## Document 333: RBA Minutes and other commentary_ still on edge about inflation (2026-07-14)

Source PDF: all report pdf/RBA Minutes and other commentary_ still on edge about inflation (2026-07-14).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-07-14
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#australia #luciellis #fx #interestrates#rba
RBA Minutes and other commentary: still on edge about inflation
By Matthew Hassan
Head of Australian Macro-Forecasting, Westpac
17:56 June 30 2026 Share
RBA Minutes released today and other commentary over the last week suggest the
Monetary Policy Board is still on edge about inflation risks in Australia.
RBA Minutes reprise the ‘hawkish hold’ message from June’s decision statement.
Some notable observations on housing and data centre build but central narrative unchanged.

### Page 2

The advent of post-meeting media conferences means the minutes to RBA meetings are of less
importance than they once were. However, they still serve to remind us of the key considerations for
policy. Read alongside last week’s speech by the Deputy Governor and a series of RBA insight notes,
the latest Minutes suggest the Bank is still on heightened inflation alert.
The central narrative through the meeting Minutes is, unsurprisingly, the same as that set out in the

decision statement and in the Governor’s post-meeting press conference. The economy is still seen as
tight, i.e. “operating with excess demand and widespread inflationary pressures”. However, the Board
opted to use the ‘space’ provided by previous rate rises, pausing in June to get a better sense of how
the situation was unfolding in the Middle East and how previous rate rises were impacting locally.
There were some interesting titbits in the detail though, including:

While neither topic is a central concern for the Board right now, they are on the radar.
Also of some note were the areas where views within the Board differed. In particular, there were
“somewhat differing views about the extent of current capacity pressures”. As we have discussed in the
past, this likely centres on assessments of slack in the labour market. That would seem to be the case
given that members still assessed that persistently weaker-than-expected productivity growth was a

problem for bringing inflation back to target.
The other notable point of difference was on the extent to which the Fair Work Commission’s
moderately higher than expected 4.75% increase in all modern award wages might indirectly influence
other wage negotiations. Again, views on the impact differed but Members agreed that it would “depend
in part on the tightness of the labour market and expectations for inflation”.
Coming back to the central narrative of tight capacity and persistent inflation, the RBA deliberations

here have been given some additional framing by the Deputy Governor and a series of RBA ‘insight’
notes. Titled “The Straight Line Belongs to Man, the Curved Line Belongs to God”, Deputy Governor
Hauser’s Sir Douglas Copland Memorial Lecture, delivered to the Economic Society of Australia last
Deputy Governor Hauser’s recent speech and accompanying RBA research underscore risks around
tight capacity and possible shift in price-setting behaviour.
Q2 CPI remains critical, with a lot riding on how this and the balance of risks to the outlook are

judged..
Financial conditions are now seen as restrictive. While the conviction here is not high (“probably
somewhat restrictive”; “remained uncertain”) it is a little more forthright than the decision statement
which simply stated that conditions were now tighter. That uncertainty may also be partly due to staff
updates on the RBA’s modelled estimates which pointed to a slightly higher real neutral rate
compared to when the cash rate was last at 4.35% (at the start of last year).

Housing market developments were largely absent in the decision statement but featured a few times
in the Minutes, including in the ‘Considerations for Monetary Policy section’ (“Housing demand had
eased, which also reflected the broader economic environment and recently proposed tax changes”;
and “Members also noted the risks associated with a potentially material weakening in housing
markets, including if this were to inhibit growth in consumption”). Likewise, the data centre

investment surge rated a mention in the main assessment section as well (“[Members] discussed the
potential for continued strength in such activity to exacerbate capacity pressures and skills shortages
in other parts of the economy”).

### Page 3

week, was a little more technical than the ‘fireside chats’ and speeches that have been used to shape
mainstream and financial market expectations. However, it focussed on two areas that are extremely
pertinent to the Board’s current deliberations, namely: 1) the sensitivity of inflation to shocks when
capacity is tight; and 2) potential changes in price-setting behaviour. The ‘straight lines’ and ‘curves’
being discussed were those showing the relationship between unemployment and wage growth or

price inflation, and between cost and price changes. And the question is to what degree do these
relationships become ‘curvier’ as unemployment falls/capacity tightens.
The Deputy Governor spelled out the clear takeaway for monetary policy: that inflationary pressures
are likely to be higher for a given change in activity if; 1) domestic capacity pressures and inflation are
already elevated; and/or 2) cost shocks are large or persistent; and/or 3) inflation expectations are

elevated. From here the Deputy Governor concluded that ”non-linearities in the Phillips curve suggest
that policy should respond proactively to an inflationary shock when we are already on the steep part of
the curve – and that is what the Monetary Policy Board has done in recent months.”
The insights notes expand on this a little, in an even more technical manner. Some notable points are
that:
All up, the RBA minutes and other communications again point to heightened concerns about

persistently above-target inflation. We already knew the June quarter CPI release on July 29 would be
the critical piece of domestic information heading into the RBA Monetary Policy Board’s August 10-11
meeting. However, the latest RBA communications make it clear that aside from this, the key
judgements will be around the scale and persistence of shocks emanating from the Middle East, and
whether price setting behaviour has shifted,
On balance, we continue to see high inflation and an unacceptably slow return to target as drawing

additional interest rate rises from the RBA – but depending on how the inflation data, geopolitics and
key judgements land, that balance could be a close-run thing.
the RBA’s models currently incorporate some non-linearity (i.e. curviness) in the relationship between
unemployment and wage costs/inflation but not in price-setting behaviour which means the latter will
be a key area of judgement for policy making (informed by liaison);
there is clear evidence that price-setting behaviour did change during and after the pandemic,

adjusting more frequently from 2022;
this increased price flexibility is estimated to account for 0.4-1.3ppts of the gap between modelled
estimates and the actual peak in inflation 2022-23; and
that the way the policy trade-off between inflation and unemployment shifts when prices are more
flexible means policy can focus more closely on the inflation part of the mandate (the idea here being
that inflation declines will also be associated with more muted rises in unemployment).

Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 4

Related articles
Australia and NZ Weekly 13 July 2026
July 13 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &10 more

### Page 5

Australia and NZ Weekly 13 July 2026
July 10 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke &10 more

### Page 6

RBA hawkish in near term, while cuts brought forward to 2027
July 10 2026 • 4 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #rba #semigovernment#basis #commodities
#ustreasury #fx #rbnz #jpy #abs Show more tags
Browse topics

### Page 7

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 8

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 9

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 10

ceta  ega agee e ts betee  estpac ad C  a d obgato s o C  do ot epeset
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 11

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 340: Taiwan-Singapore_ Asia’s new growth corridor (2026-07-01)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Taiwan-Singapore_ Asia’s new growth corridor (2026-07-01).pdf
Report source: DBS
Date: 2026-07-01
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

• Taiwan–Singapore is emerging as one of 
Asia’s fastest-growing trade and investment 
corridors. 
• AI-driven demand and the continued 
evolution of semiconductor supply chains 
are powering rapid growth. 
• Singapore’s role as a regional hub for trade, 
logistics, finance and business continues to 
accelerate corridor expansion. 
• Bilateral trade is on track to double this year, 
while two-way investment flows are 
expected to more than double. 
• Taiwan has become Singapore’s largest 
trading partner, while Singapore is poised to 
become Taiwan’s fourth -largest trading 
partner this year. 
• Singapore is on track to become Taiwan’s 
largest source of FDI and its second-
largest destination for ODI this year.

go.dbs.com/insightsdirect/macro/home groupresc@dbs.com 
 Focus

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new 
growth corridor

1 July 2026

Ma Tieying, CFA                        
Senior Economist 
matieying@dbs.com

### Page 2

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new growth corridor July 1, 2026 
                                                                                                                                            2

The Singapore–Taiwan corridor is emerging as 
one of Asia’s fastest -growing trade and 
investment relationships. The rapid expansion 
of the AI ecosystem, deeper semiconductor 
supply-chain integration and diversification, 
and Singapore’s growing role as a reg ional 
trade, logistics, finance and business hub are 
strengthening economic linkages between the 
two economies at an unprecedented pace.

Trade

Bilateral trade momentum strengthened 
sharply this year . Taiwan’s exports to 
Singapore surged 116.7% yoy during Jan–May 
to USD33.2 b n, while imports from Singapore 
increased 69.4% to USD8.6 bn. If current 
trends continue, Taiwan’s exports to Singapore 
could approach USD80 bn this year and 
imports from Singapore could reach USD20 bn, 
bringing total bilateral trade to roughly USD100 
bn. S ingapore would consequently become 
Taiwan’s fourth-largest trading partner, behind 
only the US, China, and South Korea.

From Singapore’s perspective, the relationship 
is even larger. Singapore’s trade statistics 
capture not only domestic exports and imports 
but also goods transshipped through the city -
state. On this basis, both Singapore’s exports 
to Taiwan and imports from  Taiwan are likely 
to exceed USD100 bn this year, implying total 
bilateral trade of more than USD200 bn. 
Taiwan has been Singapore’s largest trading 
partner since 2025 and is likely to retain that 
position through 2026.

-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Exports to Singapore
Imports from Singapore
% YoY
Taiwan-Singapore trade
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0 50 100 150
US
China
South Korea
Singapore
Japan
Hong Kong
Malaysia
Vietnam
Thailand
Mexico
Exports
Imports
USDbn
Taiwan: Top 10 trade partners
(Jan-May26)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
Jan-20 Jan-22 Jan-24 Jan-26
Exports to Taiwan
Domestic exports to Taiwan
Imports from Taiwan
% YoY
Singapore-Taiwan trade
Sources: CEIC, DBS

### Page 3

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new growth corridor July 1, 2026 
                                                                                                                                            3

A major driver of this growth is Singapore’s 
expanding role as a regional distribution 
hub for information and communications 
technology (ICT) products . World -class 
logistics infrastructure, extensive shipping and 
air-cargo connectivity, efficient customs 
procedures, and a tariff -free trading 
environment have made Singapore a preferred 
gateway for technology supply chains serving 
Southeast Asia, India, t he Middle East, and 
Europe.

The scale of re -export activity underscores 
Singapore’s intermediary role. Approximately 
75% of Singapore’s exports to Taiwan originate 
from third countries, while roughly half of its 
imports from Taiwan are subsequently re -
exported. As Taiwanese technolog y 
companies expand overseas, Singapore is 
becoming an increasingly important platform 
for distributing ICT products across the region.

Beyond its traditional role as a trading hub, 
Singapore is increasingly becoming a 
major source of end-demand for Taiwanese 
technology products . As Southeast Asia’s 
largest cloud-computing and data -centre hub, 
Singapore continues to attract substantial 
investment from hyperscalers and digital 
infrastructure providers , including AWS, 
Google, and Microsoft. Its stable regulatory 
environment, concentration of multinational 
headquarters, and extensive submarine cable 
network make Singapore one of Asia’s most 
attractive destinations for AI infrastructure 
investment.

Roughly half of Singapore’s imports from 
Taiwan are consumed domestically, reflecting 
strong local demand for AI servers, 
semiconductors, advanced packaging services, 
and other technology products in which Taiwan 
holds global leadership.

The development of the Johor –Singapore 
Special Economic Zone (JS -SEZ) further 
reinforces this trend. With greater land 
availability and lower power costs, Johor is 
attracting a growing pipeline of data-centre and 
advanced manufacturing investments. 
Singapore serve s as the primary logistics, 
supply-chain, and financing gateway for many 
of these projects, generating additional 
demand for AI servers, semiconductors, and 
other technology products sourced from 
Taiwan.

Deepening integration between 
Singapore’s and Taiwan’s semiconductor 
industries is another important driver of 
bilateral trade growth . Singapore has 
0 20 40 60 80 100
Taiwan
China
Malaysia
US
Hong Kong
Thailand
South Korea
Indonesia
Japan
Vietnam
Exports
Imports
USDbn
Singapore: Top 10 trade partners 
(Jan-May26)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Exports to Taiwan
Imports from Taiwan
Domestic exports/imports Transshipment
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Singapore-Taiwan trade by type (2025)

### Page 4

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new growth corridor July 1, 2026 
                                                                                                                                            4

become an increasingly important 
manufacturing and operational hub within the 
global semiconductor ecosystem. Micron 
operates NAND flash production facilities in 
Singapore and is developing advanced  HBM 
packaging capabilities there, while Applied 
Materials is expanding its semiconductor 
equipment manufacturing footprint.

At the same time, Taiwan continues to 
strengthen its position across  advanced logic 
chip manufacturing, DRAM/HBM production, 
and advanced packaging services. Micron is 
increasing DRAM/HBM production capacity in 
Taiwan, while leading Taiwanese 
semiconductor firms continue to invest heavily 
in advanced foundry processes and advanced 
packaging capabilities.

Trade patterns reflect this growing 
complementarity. Taiwan’s exports to 
Singapore are concentrated in electronic 
components (54%) and information and 
communication products (30%), while imports 
from Singapore are dominated by electronic 
components (32%), machinery (32%), and 
optical and precision instruments (13%).

Investment

The Singapore–Taiwan investment corridor 
is expanding as rapidly as trade . Taiwan’s 
approved foreign direct investment ( FDI) 
inflows from Singapore surged nearly sixteen -
fold yoy to USD5.3 bn during Jan –May, while 
Taiwan’s approved outbound investment (ODI) 
to Singapore increased by a similar magnitude 
to USD1.0 bn. Singapore’s investment into 
Taiwan could exceed USD7 bn this year, while 
Taiwan’s investment into Singapore could 
surpass USD2 bn, bringing total bilateral 
investment flows to around USD10 bn. O n a 
single-country basis, Singapore is on track to 
become Taiwan’s largest source of FDI and 
second-largest destination for outbound 
investment after the US.

The relationship appears even stronger when 
viewed through Singapore’s investment 
statistics, which capture investments routed 
through third jurisdictions and regional holding 
structures. On this basis, Singapore’s ODI into 
Taiwan could reach approximately  USD7 bn 
this year, while Taiwanese FDI into Singapore 
could approach USD6 bn, implying total 
bilateral investment flows comfortably 
exceeding USD10 bn.

0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Exports
to SG
Imports
from SG
Agriculture
Mineral products
Chemicals
Plastics & rubber
Textiles
Base metals
Electronic parts
Machinery
Electrical machinery
Information, communication products
Transport equipment
Optical, precision instrument
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Taiwan-Singapore trade by product (2025)
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2010 2015 2020 2025
Approved ODI to Singapore
Approved FDI from Singapore
USDbn
Taiwan-Singapore direct investment
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Jan-
May26

### Page 5

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new growth corridor July 1, 2026 
                                                                                                                                            5

Singapore’s growing importance as a 
regional business hub is a major factor 
supporting investment growth . An 
increasing number of multinational 
corporations and Taiwanese firms use 
Singapore as their headquarters for Southeast 
Asian and broader Asia -Pacific operations. 
The city -state offers a competitive tax 
framework, strong legal protections, and a 
highly business-friendly operating environment.

Singapore is also Taiwan’s most important 
institutional economic partner in Asia, linked 
through the ASTEP economic partnership 
agreement, which closely resembles a free -
trade agreement. As Taiwanese companies 
continue to internationalise, Singapore is 
becoming an increasingly important base for  
supply-chain management , regional treasury 
centres, and investment holding structures.

Recent transactions illustrate this trend. In April, 
Google invested USD855 mn through its 
Singapore subsidiaries to support data -centre 
and semiconductor procurement activities in 
Taiwan. In May, Micron injected USD4.3 bn 
through its Singapore holding com pany to 
expand operations in Taiwan. In the opposite 
direction, Foxconn invested USD350 mn 
through Singapore to support manufacturing 
expansion in Vietnam.

AI-related investment is becoming one of 
the most important drivers of bilateral 
capital flows . As AI adoption accelerates, 
demand for AI infrastructure, semiconductors, 
and other technology hardware is rising rapidly 
in Singapore, Taiwan, and their major trading 
partners.

Recent investments by firms such as Google 
and Micron in Taiwan provide clear examples 
of this trend. Taiwanese companies are also 
expanding their presence in Singapore’s AI 
infrastructure ecosystem. A notable example is 
BizLink’s USD850 mn acquisition of 
Singapore-based Interplex Datacom, 
0 1 2 3 4 5 6
Singapore
British Overseas Territories in
the Caribbean
US
UK
Denmark
Japan
Luxembourg
Hong Kong
South Korea
Samoa
USDbn
Taiwan: Top 10 FDI sources (Jan-May26)
Sources: CEIC, MOEA, DBS
0 1 2 3 4
British Overseas Territories in the
Caribbean
US
Singapore
Jersey
Thailand
China
Vietnam
Brazil
Germany
Japan
USDbn
Taiwan: Top 10 ODI destinations 
(Jan-May26)
Sources: CEIC, MOEA, DBS
-5
0
5
10
15
2015 2020 2025
ODI flow to Taiwan
FDI flow from Taiwan
USDbn
Singapore-Taiwan direct investment
Sources: CEIC, DBS

### Page 6

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new growth corridor July 1, 2026 
                                                                                                                                            6

strengthening its position in data -centre 
connectivity and AI-related infrastructure.

Semiconductor supply-chain 
diversification strategies driven by 
geopolitical considerations provide an 
additional structural tailwind. As Taiwanese 
semiconductor companies seek more 
geographically diversified and resilient 
production networks, Singapore has emerged 
as a preferred destination owing to its political 
stability, strategic neutrality , and well -
established semiconductor ecosystem.

Several Taiwanese semiconductor firms have 
expanded their presence in Singapore in 
recent years , extending beyond AI -related 
activities. UMC and Vanguard have invested in 
mature-node semiconductor manufacturing 
facilities, while King Yuan established its first 
overseas semiconductor testing operation in 
the city-state.

Conclusion

The Singapore–Taiwan economic relationship 
is evolving beyond a traditional trad e and 
investment partnership into a strategically 
important technology corridor centred on AI, 
semiconductors, and regional supply -chain 
management. Continued expansion of AI 
infrastructure, deeper semiconductor supply -
chain integration and diversification, and 
Singapore’s role as Asia’s leading trade  and 
business hub are likely to drive sustained 
growth in bilateral trade and investment flows. 
As the two economies  become increasingly 
interconnected, their partnership is emerging 
as a critical node within Asia’s evolving 
technology networks.

Taiwan-Singapore Direct Investment Cases (2025-2026)

Investor Year Value (USD mn) Sector 
ODI to 
Singapore 
  Foxconn

2025 1,489 Mobile phone manufacturing (India) 
2026 350 Electronic product manufacturing (Vietnam) 
Radiant 2025 100 Wholesale of electronic components; treasury center 
operations 
KYEC 2025 78 Semiconductor packaging and testing 
WT Microelectronics 2025 470 Wholesale, retail, and distribution of semiconductors 
and electronic components 
ASUS 2026 500 Sales of 3C products 
BizLink 2026 850 Data center infrastructure 
FDI from 
Singapore 
Google 
2026 800 Data processing and electronic information services 
2026 55 Semiconductor inventory procurement 
Micron 2026 4,330 Memory chip manufacturing

Sources: MOEA, news reports, DBS

### Page 7

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new growth corridor July 1, 2026 
                                                                                                                                            7

Group Research 
ECONOMICS & STRATEGY

Taimur BAIG, Ph.D. 
Chief Economist 
Global 
taimurbaig@dbs.com

### Page 8

Taiwan-Singapore: Asia’s new growth corridor July 1, 2026 
                                                                                                                                            8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or 
collectively, the “Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the 
Company does not make any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, 
timeliness or correctness for any particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This 
research is prepared for general circulation.  Any recommendation contained  herein does not have regard to the 
specific investment objectives, financial situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information 
herein is published for the information of addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of 
judgement by addressees, who should obtain separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related 
companies or any individuals connected with the group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, 
consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages of any kind arising from any use of the information 
herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, negligent or otherwise) or further communication 
thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of the possibility thereof. The information herein 
is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities, futures, options or other 
financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The Company and its associates, their 
directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may effect transactions in securities 
mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking an d other banking or 
financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or 
use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or other jurisdiction 
(including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such distribution, publication, 
availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of  
an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of America) where such 
an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore]  This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 
196800306E) which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the 
Monetary Authority of Singapore. DBS Bank Ltd may distribute reports pr oduced by its respective foreign entities, 
affiliates or other foreign research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial 
Advisers Regulations. Where the report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, 
Expert Investor or an Institutional Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report 
to such persons only to the extent required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65-6878-
8888 for matters arising from, or in connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65-6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The 
Center, 99 Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 
99 Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

---
## Document 355: United States_ Oil prices pushes inflation higher and household sentiment is under growing pressure (2026-06-24)

Source PDF: all report pdf/United States_ Oil prices pushes inflation higher and household sentiment is under growing pressure (2026-06-24).pdf
Report source: BNP Paribas
Date: 2026-06-24
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

United States: Oil prices pushes inflation higher and household sentiment is under
growing pressure
24/06/2026 4
May 2026: Services business sentiment still
buoyant
May 2026: Positive trend for manufacturing
business sentiment
May 2026: Very elevated input prices, another
rise in price plans
May 2026:
Longer delivery times
June 2026:
Growing concerns among households
May 2026:
Energy-related inflation bounce
The Iran war delivered a quick, though relatively contained, negative impact to US activity data and surveys.

CPI inflation recorded its largest monthly increase since 2022 in March and stood at 4.2% y/y in May (+1.8pp in three months
and a highest since 2023) – almost entirely on the back of gasoline prices, with the non-energy index edging up as well but
to a lesser extent (+0.3pp to 2.9% y/y in three months).
Business sentiment, which was on an upward trajectory before the shock, stayed resilient but signaled a faster input-price
growth (a leading indicator of inflation) and longer delivery times, both directly linked to Middle East turmoil and coming on

top of the issue of tariffs.
Meanwhile, the outlook of households, which were already low on optimism, has further deteriorated due to their sensibility
to gasoline prices, while inflation expectations have risen.
However, macro conditions are significantly less inflationary than in 2022, although small businesses have raised their price
plans.
Source: BLS, ISM, NFIB, University of Michigan, BNP Paribas
ECONOMIC RESEARCH
-7
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2

3
4
5
Inflation-MidEast war
Inflation-Ukraine war
Inflation excl. NRJ-MidEast war
Inflation excl. NRJ-Ukraine war
US: CPI inflation (incl. & excl. energy)
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
MidEast war
Ukraine war
US: Manufacturing ISM
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12 MidEast war Ukraine war
US: Non-Manufacturing ISM
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
m
m+1
m+2
m+3
m+4
m+5
m+6
m+7
m+8
m+9
m+10
m+11
m+12
Input prices-MidEast war
Input prices-Ukraine war

Price plans-MidEast war
Price plans-Ukraine war
US: Proxy ISM Composite Prices and NFIB Price Plans
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
MidEast war Ukraine war
US: Manufacturing ISM - Supplier Deliveries
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
MidEast war Ukraine war
US: Consumer sentiment - Expected Personal Finances (1y)
Change since m = 0 = February 2026 / February 2022. Unit: inflation change in percentage point, point for confidence surveys.

---
## Document 385: 【工業產業攻略】美國國防政策風險提升

Source PDF: all report pdf/【工業產業攻略】美國國防政策風險提升.pdf
Report source: CTBC
Date: 2026-06-29
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
1
美國國防政策風險提升
分析師／張乘維
研究範疇／工業 / 科技
工業產業投資攻略
出 刊 日 : 2026/6/29
熱門議題 / 投資關鍵
《國防政策風險提升，工業對通膨憂慮加劇》
美國聯邦參議院軍委會 6月中旬通過的 2027財年
「美國國防授權法案 」，其中的「合格國防投資計
畫」要求國防承包商必須將獲利用於擴大國防研發
與設備產能 ，限制其股票回購或發放股息 。由於參
議院預計於7月進行辯論與表決將對國防類股造成壓
力。隨著美國與伊朗簽屬 「美伊14點諒解備忘錄 」
停火60天，促使原油與航空燃油開始持續回跌 ，預
估3Q26油價有望持續下滑，對航空公司運量與獲利
形成正面助益。
最新數據顯示 ，工業是標普11大板塊在財報上最多

公司（48家公司）提及「通膨」。高利率環境持續
壓抑大型工業公司資本設備的採購意願與營利率 。
所以機構將工業產業 3Q26、4Q26獲利年增率從
4/1 的 16.3% 、 4.6% 微 幅 下 調 到6/26 的 16.0% 、
4.1%，2026年產業獲利年增率則從 10.4%下調到
9.9%。
市場投資展望
資產 3Q26看法 投資展望
工業 中立 美伊停火促使燃油成本下滑利好航空產業，參議院將表決合格國防投
資計畫，對國防類股形成壓力。
• 燃油成本下跌利好航空業，美國
參議院政策表決將壓抑國防類股 Pg2
重點摘要
• 國防政策風險提升 ，工業對通
膨憂慮加劇
本月關鍵圖表
資料來源：LSEG，2026/6/26，中國信託商業銀行整理，
2026/6/29
標普500工業產業獲利年增率
4.9%
12.3%
16.3%
4.6%
10.3% 10.2%
16.0%
4.1%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
1Q26 2Q26 3Q26 4Q26
2026/4/1 2026/6/26

### Page 2

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
2
重點摘要
• 參議院將表決合格國防投資
計畫，對國防類股形成壓力
• 美伊停火促使燃油成本下滑
利好航空產業
《參議院將表決合格國防投資計畫 ，對國防類股形
成壓力》
美國聯邦參議院軍委會 6月中旬通過的 2027財年
「美國國防授權法案 」，納入限制國防承包商實施
股票回購或發放股息等資本返還行為 ，藉此要求企
業將大部分的利潤重新投入擴張國防基礎設施生產 ，
以解決美國國防飛彈短缺與其他設備交貨數量不足
問題。美國眾議院則是在美國商會的強力遊說下撤
回相關條例。由於7月參議院全院大會將對「合格國
防投資計畫 」相關條款進行辯論與表決 ，預估會對
於洛克希德馬丁 （LMT）、雷神（RTX）、通用動
力（GD）與諾斯洛普格拉曼 （NOC）股價形成壓

力。
《美伊停火促使燃油成本下滑利好航空產業》
美伊兩國於2026年6月17日簽屬「伊斯蘭馬巴德備
忘錄」或簡稱「美伊14點諒解備忘錄 」，雙方立即
停火60天，美國承諾解除對伊朗海上封鎖 ，伊朗則
承諾不發展核武 ，同時重新開放荷姆茲海峽供商船
免費通行 。根據國際航空運輸協會 (IATA)數據，儘
管美伊雙方在波斯灣近期持續發生零星交火導致諒
解備忘錄前景不明 ，但6/19航空燃油價格每桶 119
美元(較開戰前高 24%)已經從4月高點209美元下跌
43%。機構預估荷姆茲海峽將於 7月底恢復正常 ，
所以下調 3Q26-4Q26原油預測 10-12%到80-85美
元。航空燃油價格下跌對於全球航空公司運量與獲
利有望帶來正向利多 。雖然航空類股迎來獲利轉機 ，
但考量參議院的合格國防投資計畫表決將壓抑國防
類股股價，以及機構下調工業產業3Q26獲利成長率。
本行對工業產業展望維持中立評等。
資料來源：S&P Global Energy、IATA，2026/6/19，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/6/29

航空燃料價格已經大幅滑落
航空燃油與布蘭特原油價格美元/每桶
價差 航空燃油 布蘭特原油

---
## Document 391: 【核心消費產業投資攻略】市場消費動能較預期佳、市場對企業獲利維持正向

Source PDF: all report pdf/【核心消費產業投資攻略】市場消費動能較預期佳、市場對企業獲利維持正向.pdf
Report source: CTBC
Date: 2026-06-24
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
熱門議題 / 投資關鍵
市場投資展望
重點摘要
本月關鍵圖表
市場消費動能較預期佳、市場
對企業獲利維持正向
分析師／謝智偉
研究範疇／核心消費
市場投資展望
《5月消費支出表現：晴天》
消費者支出動能強勁 ，5月份信用卡消費總額較去年同期成
長5.1%，成長並非僅由汽油消費驅動 ，另商品和服務消費的
基本面依然保持穩定 。依據美國銀行統計發行信用卡消費數
據，美國五月消費強勁成長 。消費者支出依然續增且優於預
期，汽油價格上漲似乎尚未削弱其成長動能 。美國銀行數據
顯示，5月美國家庭信用卡和金融卡消費總額年增 5.1%，創
近四年來最大增幅 ，此前4月份年增4.8%。雖然汽油消費年
增率是推動這一成長的主要因素 ，但剔除汽油消費後 ，5月

消費總額仍較去年同期成長 3.9%，僅較4月的4.0%略有放緩。
經季節性調整後，5月每戶家庭支出較上季成長0.1%，此前4
月較上季成長0.5%。此前兩個月，每戶家庭支出較上月成長
0.6%和0.9%。
• 5月家計單位消費支出成長，扣
除高油價因素，整體年成長率
高於預期
1
資產 3Q26 看法 投資展望
核心消費 正向 5月統計市場消費數據表現優於預期，雖然接下來市場將面臨高通膨、
高利率的環境，但在經濟維持成長趨勢下，市場消費動能仍在。加上
企業藉由AI的協助，快速調整經營策略，長期依賴的產品護城河不再
是企業營運的關鍵工具。本行看好2H26營運調整結果，對於3Q26看
法轉趨正向。
資料來源：美國銀行2026/6/16，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/6/18。
• 5月美國消費市場，晴天 P.1
• 零售支出成長高於服務支出 P.2
• 未見消費者行為有疲軟跡象 P.2
• 消費與薪資K型出現好轉契機 P.3
• 核心消費產業獲利成長不變 P.4
消費產業投資攻略
出 刊 日 : 2026/6/18

消費支出表現穩健成長
消費支出年成長率%(不含汽油消費)

### Page 2

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
重點摘要
零售客流量表
• 零售業支出成長超過了服務業
支出，細項主要是電子產品、
家具和服裝
• “單筆消費額度”未見減少，
表示未見消費者行為有疲軟跡
象
2
一個正加速的 趨勢是：零售業 （不包括汽油和餐飲 ）
對整體消費成長的貢獻幾乎與包括餐飲在內的服務
業持平值得注意的是 ，這是自 2021年2月以來首次
出現這種情況 。疫情期間消費者保持社交距離 ，零
售業支出(線上消費大增)成長超過了服務業支出，細
項主要是電子產品 、家具和服裝 。同時，與2025年
相比，必需服務支出 （例如房租和水電費 ）有所下
降，部分原因是電視和通訊支出的貢獻減少 。部分
必需服務支出的 變化反映 了消費者在支付方式上的
轉變，這種轉變表現在實體刷卡消費轉向線上消費 ，

從1Q26企業財報也得到相同的看法 。後續營運，零
售業擴增線上消費優惠與服務(縮短運送時間)。
《整體消費強勁的背景下，未見消費者行為有
疲軟跡象》
一個可以關注行為變化的指標是“單筆消費額度”即
消費者是否刻意減少在更昂貴商品上的支出？當我們
檢視企業財報數據以及多種商品品類時，並未看到這
種行為的跡象。汽車是一項非常昂貴的消費品。汽油
價格直接影響內燃機汽車的運作成本，因此，消費者
可能會因為油價上漲而減少支出。然而，與汽車相關
的支出占比中，我們沒有看到明顯的消費縮減跡象
必需性消費型態變更
資料來源：美國銀行 2026/6/16，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/6/18
保險
水電費用
教育
房租
電視與通訊費
家庭服務

### Page 3

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
重點摘要
零售客流量表
• 美國家庭收入用於購車占比仍
高，購車需求仍在
• 消費支出與薪資水準出現收斂
的跡象
3
資料來源：美國銀行2026/6/16，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/6/18
美國家庭收入用於購車占比_以收入別分
低收入與高收入家庭薪資差距收斂
資料來源：美國銀行 2026/6/16，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/6/18
低收入
家庭
中收入
家庭
高收入
家庭
低收入
家庭
高收入
家庭
中收入
家庭
《消費支出與薪資水準出現收斂的跡象》
儘管我們幾乎沒有看到消費者行為因油價衝擊而改變，但
我們確實觀察到不同收入家庭的支出成長有分化。5月份，
低收入家庭的信用卡支出較去年同期成長4.1%，中等收入
家庭較去年同期成長4.3%，而高收入家庭的年成長更為強

勁，達到5.4%。因此，高收入家庭與其他家庭之間的差距
縮小至2025年6月以來的最低水準。同時，低收入家庭稅
後薪資成長率升至 3.1%，為 2025 年 1 月以來的最高水平，
而中等收入家庭的薪資成長率則較去年同期上升至 3.5%。
低收入家庭支出和薪資成長改善的潛在驅動力之一可能是
勞動力市場。根據美國銀行客戶數據對薪資成長的估計顯
示，自今年年初以來薪資成長強勁。這與美國勞工統計局
(BLS) 衡量的薪資成長改善相一致。

### Page 4

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
重點摘要
零售客流量表
• 借助AI的力量，企業有能力進
行更彈性的調整，因應變局。
2H26獲利展望正向，企業優勢
的護城河不是面對快速變局的
關鍵工具
4
《市場預估核心消費產業2026獲利成長不變》
藉由觀察市場對於核心消費產業獲利預估變動 ，財報前、
中、後市場對於核心消費產業中個字產業獲利預估仍維持
2026的成長趨勢 ，2027年雖小幅度調整 ，主要是反應
2026優於預期的展望 ，市場調整成長趨勢的變動 ，但整
體而言，仍是維持逐季、逐年成長的趨勢。配合上，上個
月攻略提及產業營運借助AI已經明確調整，穩定獲利對抗
通膨的負向因素，本行維持對核心消費產業的正向看法。
資料來源：LESG 2026/6/16，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/6/18

市場對於核心消費產業獲利預估
12.6%
5.4%
3.5%
10.3%
7.3%
3.6%
14.3%
6.6%
3.6%
消費必需品分銷與零售 食品、飲料和菸草 居家及個人用品
2026年子產業獲利預估變化
2026/5/5 2026/5/22 2026/6/16
9.3%
10.6%
3.5%
12.6%
5.4%
3.5%
7.5%
9.6%
3.3%
消費必需品分銷與零售 食品、飲料和菸草 居家及個人用品
2027年子產業獲利預估變化
2026/5/5 2026/5/22 2026/6/16

---
## Document 410: インド：モディ政権の産業政策は、「質の高い雇用」を生みだせるのか？

Source PDF: all report pdf/インド：モディ政権の産業政策は、「質の高い雇用」を生みだせるのか？.pdf
Report source: DIR
Date: 2026-07-14
Pages: 9
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

新興国

株式会社大和総研 丸の内オフィス　〒100-6756 東京都千代田区丸の内一丁目 9 番 1 号 グラントウキョウ ノースタワー 
このレポートは投資勧誘を意図して提供するものではありません。このレポートの掲載情報は信頼できると考えられる情報源から作成しておりますが、その正確性、完全
性を保証するものではありません。また、記載された意見や予測等は作成時点のものであり今後予告なく変更されることがあります。㈱大和総研と大和証券㈱は、㈱大和
証券グループ本社を親会社とする大和証券グループの会社です。内容に関する一切の権利は㈱大和総研にあります。無断での複製・転載・転送等はご遠慮ください。

2026 年 7 月 14 日　全 9 頁

インド：モディ政権の産業政策は、 「質の高
い雇用」を生みだせるのか？ 
量的改善から安定性・生産性・所得を伴う雇用への転換が問われる

経済調査部 シニアエコノミスト 増川 智咲

[要約] 
 インドにおける雇用の問題は、量よりも質にある。インド政府が発表した、2025 年の
定期労働力調査（PLFS）では、2022 年と比べて数値が改善したものが多かった。しか
し、雇用の質の面では、低生産性・脆弱な雇用形態・技能のミスマッチという 3 点に
おいて改善の余地がある。 
 3 つの課題は、雇用者数を増やすだけでは解消しにくい。労働集約的な工程から高度
な工程まで幅広い工程を国内に取り込み、それぞれの学歴層に応じた雇用機会を創出
していくことが最大の課題だ。成長の持続性は、現在統計に表れているような「雇用
量の増加」よりも、 「生産性と所得を伴う質の高い雇用」の先行きに左右されやすい。
本稿では、インドが抱える雇用問題克服という観点から、半導体・電子機器サプライ
チェーン、自動車産業、労働集約型輸出産業の 3 分野を検討した。 
 現時点でモディ政権の産業政策が十分な「質の高い雇用」を生み出していると断定す
るには時期尚早である。ただし、電子機器サプライチェーンの工程内深化、内燃機関
エンジンから EV（電気自動車）産業への移行、繊維・アパレルを中心とする労働集約
型輸出産業の強化は、前者 2 つの産業で中高技能層、後者で低学歴層に雇用機会を広
げる政策として一定の整合性を有する。 
 今後の焦点は、これらの政策の効果が、PLFS 等で確認される雇用量の改善にとどまら
ず、常用雇用の増加、生産性・所得の改善、技能ミスマッチの緩和として表れるかに
ある。インドでは地方分権度の高さ、州間格差、電子機器サプライチェーンの集積不
足といった制約が大きく、中国やベトナムの先例よりも成果の顕在化には時間を要す
る可能性が高い。

### Page 2

1

2 / 9

量的改善がみられるインドの雇用。質改善にはまだ一歩 
内需主導で相対的に高い成長を維持するインドは、主要な成長市場の一つとして存在感を高
めている。一方で、その成長の長期的な持続性について疑問を投げかける声も少なくない。背
景の一つとして挙げられるのは、大規模な人口を吸収する雇用創出の不足だ。2024 年の総選挙
では、若年層を中心とした失業率の高さを背景に、与党インド人民党（BJP）が辛勝するなど、
政治的観点からも雇用は喫緊の課題として注目されている。

労働市場の構造的な課題は解消されていない 
インドにおける雇用の問題は、量よりも質にある。インド政府が発表した、2025 年の定期労
働力調査（PLFS）1では、2022 年と比べて主要な指標に改善がみられた。例えば、15 歳以上の
労働参加率は 2022 年に 56.1％だったものが 2025 年には 59.3％へと 3.2％pt 上昇した。特に、
女性の労働参加率は 33.9％から 40.0％へと上昇し、男性の 78.0％から 79.1％への上昇幅より
も大きかった。地域別で見ると、地方の女性の労働参加率の上昇（37.5％→45.9％）が都市部
の女性（24.7％→27.7％）を上回った。 
15 歳以上の失業率は、3.6％から 3.1％へと低下した。地域別では、地方（2.8％→2.4％） 、
都市部（5.9％→4.8％）ともに改善した。若年層（15-29 歳）の失業率に限ってみると、国全
体で 2022 年に 10.9％であったものが、2025 年に 9.9％と一桁台まで低下した。 
PLFS 上でこれらの改善が確認される一方、雇用の質の面では、低生産性・不安定な雇用・技
能のミスマッチという 3 点において改善の余地がある。

①　農業や、自営を中心とした従来型産業がもたらす、低生産性の問題 
就業者の産業別構成を見ると、農業の割合が 2025 年も 43.0％と依然として高く、農業が労
働力の最大の受け皿となっている構造に大きな変化はみられない（図表 1） 。図表 3 が示すよう
に、農業の労働生産性は製造業・サービス業に比べて低く、所得も天候要因に左右されやすい。 
一方、製造業の割合は、コロナ禍の落ち込みから回復傾向にあるものの、2025年も 12.1％に
とどまる。農業からの労働移動を吸収する産業としては、なお規模が限られる。また、その内
訳を見ると、 「アパレル」や「繊維」 、 「食品加工」など、インドが従来得意としてきた労働集
約型産業が中心で、この構造は 2017 年度とほぼ変わらない（図表 2） 。これらの業種は近年、
地方における女性の重要な就労先となっており、女性の労働参加率の上昇にも一定程度寄与し
ている。ただし、これらの労働集約型産業は後述の通り、家族経営主体の「自営」であるケー

1 2025 年の PLFSは、従来の年度ベースから暦年ベースに変更された。2022 年のデータは、2025 年の PLFS 内
で発表されている暦年データを用いているが、2017 年度のデータは、2017 年度 PLFS 内にある 2017 年 7 月か
ら 2018 年 6 月までのデータ。したがって、本稿では厳密な長期時系列比較ではなく、雇用量改善の方向感を
確認する材料として用いる。

### Page 3

1

3 / 9

スが多く、その生産性は相対的に低い（図表 3） 。このように、現在のインドの雇用構造は、所
得の増加や生産性向上を伴う成長につながりにくい。

図表 1 産業別の就業者割合推移

（出所）インド統計・事業実施省より大和総研作成 
 図表 2 製造業セクターの就業者の割合

（注）全産業に占める割合。 
（出所）インド PLFS より大和総研作成 
図表 3 各業種の労働生産性（2022 年度）

（注）実質 GVA（粗付加価値）／就業者数で表したもの。 
（出所）INDIA KLEMS database 2023 より大和総研作成

10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
20182019202020212022202320242025農業 製造業建設 小売・宿泊・飲食輸送・保管 （年）
（％）
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
アパレル
繊維食品加工
その他非鉄製品
金属製品
タバコその他製造業
家具ベースメタル
木製品修理化学自動車ゴム製品
その他機械
医薬品電気機械
革製品その他輸送機器
紙製品出版コンピュータ・電子機器
飲料石炭・石油
2017-18年度2025年
（％）
0 200 400 600 800農業・林業・漁業木製品宿泊・外食その他製造業建設食品・飲料・タバコ縫製品・革・履物パルプ・紙製品・出版小売輸送・保管健康・ソーシャルワーク教育その他非鉄その他サービス電子・医療機器ベースメタル・金属製品ゴム・ゴム製品機械全産業平均ビジネスサービス公共・防衛輸送機器化学・化学製品金融電力・ガス・水道郵便・通信鉱業石炭・石油製品
（千ルピー）

### Page 4

1

4 / 9

②　脆弱な雇用形態 
図表4は、各セクターの就業者を就業形態の割合で表し、2017年度と 2025年を比較したもの
である。インドで最も従事者の多い農業については、その多くが「自営」である。 「自営」は
医療保険や年金といった社会保障などの面で「常用雇用」に比べて脆弱である。農業と同様に
「自営」の割合が高いのは「小売」だ。 「キラナショップ」と呼ばれる家族経営の露店は、イ
ンドで「Traditional Trade」と呼ばれ、小売店舗数の約9割、食料品・日用品販売の約7-8割
を占めると言われている 2。そして近年、 「自営」の割合が高まっているのが、 「輸送」だ。こ
れは、インターネット上の専用プラットフォームを介して、配車・デリバリーを担うギグワー
カーが増加した可能性を示唆している 3。以上のように、失業率が低下した裏で、このような
不安定な雇用形態に従事する人々が増加しているのが実情だ。

図表 4 各セクターの就業者割合（就業形態別、％）

（注）国全体で、男女合計。 
（出所）インド PLFS より大和総研作成

③　労働市場におけるミスマッチ 
企業が求める人材と求職者が持つ技能が一致しない、いわゆる労働市場におけるミスマッチ
も大きな課題だ。図表 5 は、最終学歴ごとの就業状況（2025 年）を表したものである。まず、
「職業訓練課程 4修了」 、 「学士」 、 「修士・博士」を最終学歴とする、いわゆる高学歴層の就業
形態を見ると、 「常用雇用」の割合は他の学歴層と比べて高いものの、20％～30％台にとどま
っていることが分かる。一方で、求職中の割合は 10～17％程度と、学歴の低い層を上回る。ま
た、 「学士」以上の層でも「家事」に従事する人の割合が 20％程度と高い。高学歴者であって
も能力に見合った安定的な職を見つけることが容易ではないことを示唆している。 
中程度の最終学歴である「8年生修了（日本の中学2年生修了） 」や「10年生修了（日本の高

2 INVEST INDIA “MODERNIXATION OF KIRANA STORES IN INDIA” April 1, 2021 
3 インド政府は、2024 年度に 1,000 万人存在するといわれていたギグワーカーの数が、2029 年度に 2,350 万人
まで増加すると予測しており、それらの層に対する社会保障政策を強化している。 
インド政府プレスリリース “Social Security Boost for India’s Gig Workers”30 August 2025 
4 10 年生か 12年生を修了した段階で入学するケースが多い。 
自営 常用雇用臨時雇用労働自営 常用雇用臨時雇用労働農業 73.2 1.2 25.5 81.0 1.2 17.9鉱業 7.6 49.5 43.0 10.9 59.3 29.9製造業 42.2 41.5 16.3 44.0 44.4 11.6電力・上下水15.8 78.1 6.1 22.9 72.1 5.0建設業 10.8 5.5 83.7 14.1 5.8 80.1小売 70.6 25.5 3.9 68.1 28.6 3.3輸送 44.4 43.2 12.3 52.2 37.1 10.7宿泊・外食 58.1 32.0 9.8 54.5 35.8 9.7その他サービス21.1 75.2 3.7 22.6 75.2 2.2全体 52.2 22.8 24.9 56.2 23.6 20.2
2017年度 2025年

### Page 5

1

5 / 9

校 1 年生修了） 」 、 「12 年生修了（高校卒業程度） 」についても、同様の傾向がみられる。この層
には在学中の者も多いが、就業者の中では「自営」の割合が高い。 「常用雇用」の割合は低学
歴層と大きく変わらず、中程度の学歴を有していても、安定した職を得ることが困難であるよ
うだ。

図表 5 最終学歴ごとの就業状況（学歴ごとに占める割合％、2025 年）

（注 1）職業訓練課程は、10 年生や 12 年生を修了した後に入学するケースが大半。 
（注 2）ハイライトは20％を超える箇所。太字は、各層において最も割合が大きい箇所。 
（出所）インドPLFS より大和総研作成

モディ政権の産業政策は、雇用の質改善につながるか 
以上の 3 つの構造課題は、単に雇用者数を増やすだけでは解消しにくい。農業からの労働移
動には労働吸収力のある産業が必要であり、社会保障制度などで所得を保障するためには「常
用雇用」の受け皿が必要である。また、高学歴・中技能層のミスマッチには、産業内の工程と
それぞれの技能を結びつける政策が不可欠となる。以下では、インドが抱える雇用問題克服と
いう観点から半導体・電子機器サプライチェーン、自動車産業、労働集約型輸出産業の 3 分野
を検討する。これら 3 つは、インドにおける製造業育成の軸として位置づけられている産業で
ある。

①　電子機器サプライチェーンの工程内深化：中技能・高技能労働者の雇用受け皿に 
半導体・電子機器産業の育成は、モディ政権が産業政策の柱の一つに掲げている分野である。
現在、インドが同サプライチェーンの中で比較的強みを有しているのは、スマートフォン等の
「⑥最終製品組立」の工程である（図表 6） 。それ以外の工程においては、中国や東南アジア諸
国と比べて競争力が限定的だ。 
これに対し、政府は「①半導体製造」能力の拡大を目指して投資誘致を進めてきた。しかし、
インドの労働力人口の学歴構成を踏まえると、こうした高度な技術を有する先端分野のみへの
投資では、大規模な雇用創出につながりにくいという指摘があった。そのため近年では、半導
体製造だけでなく、電子機器サプライチェーン全体の工程内深化を図る動きがみられる。 
非識字5年生修了8年生修了10年生修了12年生修了職業訓練課程修了学士号取得修士・博士自営25.1 26.4 20.7 15.1 18.5 19.4 22.4 18.0常用雇用6.0 9.6 8.2 8.3 9.8 39.6 24.7 34.6臨時雇用21.8 22.8 13.3 6.7 4.6 5.3 2.0 0.7求職中1.3 1.7 2.0 1.7 3.4 10.3 14.1 17.5学生0.1 8.7 33.4 51.6 46.3 15.5 15.8 8.5年金0.6 0.3 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 0.1 0.2家事36.0 28.1 21.0 15.8 16.5 9.2 19.9 19.8その他9.2 2.4 1.2 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.9 0.7
低学歴 中学歴 高学歴

### Page 6

1

6 / 9

その代表例が、インドの最南部に位置するタミル・ナドゥ州である。同州には、世界最大の
電子機器受託製造（EMS）企業である Foxconn が進出しており、iPhone 組立の主要拠点の一つ
として機能している。州政府は、次の段階として、iPhone 組立といった労働集約的な最終組立
工程だけでなく、ディスプレイやバッテリーなどのモジュール生産といった中技能工程、さら
には PCB（プリント基板）などの電子部品や実装設備といったより技術水準の高い工程を州内
に取り込むことでサプライチェーンを構築しようとしている。その一環として、州政府は、
2025 年に「Tamil Nadu Electronics Components Manufacturing Scheme（ECMS） 」と呼ばれる
電子部品製造における補助金を通じて、関連企業の投資誘致を進めてきた。インドの EMS 大手
である Kaynes Technology India 傘下の Kaynes Circuits India が 499.5億ルピーを投資し、
多層 PCB やカメラモジュール等を製造する投資計画を発表するなど、企業からの反応も良好で
ある。 
EMS の進出をきっかけに部品産業の育成と工程内深化を進める手法は、中国やベトナムでも
みられた産業発展の過程である。インドでは、州ごとの経済格差が大きい上、地方分権が進ん
でいることから、中国やベトナムのように国全体でこの過程を辿ることは困難だ。そのため、
タミル・ナドゥ州だけでなく、カルナータカ州やグジャラート州、ウッタル・プラデシュ州と
いった産業基盤の形成が進んだ州が先行してこのような戦略を進めている。そしてこのような
動きは、 「⑥最終製品組立」と最先端の前工程を中心とした「①半導体製造」の間に位置する、
中技能・中付加価値の雇用を創出する契機として期待されている。

図表 6 半導体製造から電子機器製造までの工程と、各国の強み

（注）マレーシアの「前工程」 （ハイライトが薄い部分）は、現在強化中の箇所。 
（出所）各種資料より大和総研作成

②　内燃機関関連部品⇒EV 産業：中技能労働者の雇用先に 
自動車産業は、雇用創出のドライバーとして期待されているセクターの一つだ。インドの
Azim Premji 大学 5が発表した報告書によると、自動車産業は、職業訓練学校卒業生の主な就職
先の 6位に入っている 6。いわゆる中程度～高程度の学歴を有した人口の就職先として有望な就

5 インド IT 大手Wipro の創業者 Azim Premji が設立した私立大学。 
6 AZIM Premji University “State of Working India 2026 Youth in the labour market: Pathways from 
learning to earning”17 March 2026 p.156 
②③ ④ ⑤⑥工程回路・パターン設計前工程 後工程工程の内容ソフトウェアを用いて、ICチップのデザインを行う設計した電子回路を半導体ウェーハ表面に形成チップに切り出して組立を行うコンデンサやトランジスタ等の製造部品をつなぐためのプラットフォーム製造③に①と②を実装基盤単位で機能化最終製品
マレーシアフィリピンインド 弱弱 弱 弱強弱
半導体製造
タイベトナム
① 電子部品製造PCB基盤製造PCB実装モジュール化最終製品組立

### Page 7

1

7 / 9

職先として位置づけられる。また近年は、男子学生だけでなく、女子学生の就職先としても人
気が出ていると指摘されている。 
インドの自動車産業は、国内のモータリゼーションの進展に加え、近年は輸出拠点としても
注目されている。インドからの主な輸出品は、内燃機関（ ICE）関連部品とその部品である。
インドは従来、裾野産業が未成熟であるために、自動車部品を中国等からの輸入に依存してき
た。しかし近年は、政府による補助金政策（Production Linked Incentive, PLI と呼ばれる生
産連動型スキーム）等が奏功し、部品産業は年平均 14％の成長（2019 年度から 2024 年度）を
遂げているという 7。インド自動車部品工業会（ ACMA）とマッキンゼーが発表したレポートに
よると、インドは ICE 関連部品分野で「last person standing advantage」を享受していると
いう 8。これは、自動車業界で EV 化が進む中でも、ICE の需要がすぐにゼロとはならないため、
世界のメーカーが ICE 向け投資を縮小・撤退する一方で、最後まで競争力のある ICE 関連部品
の供給能力を維持できた国が大きなシェアを獲得できる、というロジックである。また、同レ
ポートでは、脱炭素化が進むことで ICE 関連部品の「last person standing advantage」の効
果が徐々に弱まるまでに、ICE 関連部品に代わる有望分野として EV 部品や完成車の競争力を高
めることがインドの政策の狙いだと指摘している。 
これは、中国も辿ってきた過程ではあるが、インドが中国と異なるのは、EV 生産に必要なサ
プライチェーンを国内に未だ構築できていない点である。インドの自動車産業は従来、鋳造や
鍛造、機械加工に強みを有してきたが、EV 生産ではパワーエレクトロニクス分野や半導体分野
のサプライチェーン構築が重要となる。このため、自動車産業の育成と雇用創出は、半導体・
電子機器サプライチェーンの工程内深化と一体で捉える必要がある。

③　労働集約型産業の育成：低学歴層向けの安定した雇用創出と生産性の向上 
図表7、8は、ベトナムとインドの輸出品を技術レベル別の割合で表したものである。これに
よると、ベトナムはここ10年、一次産品（特にコメ）中心から、ハイテク製品（電子機器）中
心の輸出構造へと変わる中でも、ローテク製品（衣類・履物）のシェアを一定程度維持してき
たことが分かる。他方、インドでは、資源加工品（特に石油・宝飾品）や一次産品（特にコ
メ・アルミニウム）といった従来型の輸出製品の割合を維持したまま、ハイテク・ミディアム
テクの輸出割合を引き上げた。その裏で、割合が大きく低下したのがローテク製品（衣類・履
物）だ。 
ベトナムは、ローテクとハイテクの両輪で輸出産業を育成し雇用を生み出した好例だ。繊
維・アパレルの産業クラスターを国内に形成し、さらに輸出競争力を高めるために、 FTA（自
由貿易協定）や EPA（経済連携協定）の締結を積極的に行ってきた。他方、インドではハイテ

7 ACMA プレスリリース “Indian Auto Component Industry clocks turnover of Rs. 6.73 lakh crore (USD 
80.2 billion) in FY 24-25; grows at CAGR of 14% from FY20 to FY25”8 July 2025 
8 McKinsey & Company “Shaping the future of India’s auto component industry amid global trade 
shifts” September 2025

### Page 8

1

8 / 9

ク・ミディアムテクへの投資が、ローテクを上回った。繊維・アパレル産業のクラスターが不
在であるほか、それを支える規制（土地や労務関連）や物流も未整備で、 FTA/EPA 締結にも国
内産業保護の目的で消極的だった。この点が、インドとベトナムのローテク産業の輸出競争力
に差を生んだと考えられる。 
しかし、ここ数年でこの状況に大きな変化が生じている。モディ政権が、FTA/EPA の交渉や
締結を加速させているほか、2025 年には遅れていた新労働法を施行に移すなど、投資の障害と
なる要因を取り除く動きを進めているのである。さらに、政府が 2025年に、電子機器などのハ
イテク産業だけではなく、繊維・アパレル分野でも中国やベトナムに対抗できる輸出クラスタ
ーを形成することを目標として設定した。その試みの一環として、繊維・アパレルクラスター
の拠点に 7 つの地域を選定し、その中に、ウッタル・プラデシュ州や、マディヤ・プラデシュ
州といった、所得水準が低く人口規模の大きい州を含めた。大規模なクラスター形成に向けた
このような動きは、高度な技術を必要としない、大量の「常用雇用」を創出する契機となるだ
ろう。つまり、ハイテク産業だけでは埋められない雇用の質改善を補完する役割を期待されて
いるのだ。

図表 7 ベトナムの輸出構造（技術レベル別）

（注）技術別の輸出額を、全体の輸出額で割ったも
の。Lall（2000）9分類に基づく。一部シェアの低い項
目は捨象。 
（出所）UNCTAD より大和総研作成 
 図表 8 インドの輸出構造（技術レベル別）

（注）技術別の輸出額を、全体の輸出額で割ったも
の。Lall（2000）分類に基づく。一部シェアの低い項
目は捨象。 
（出所）UNCTAD より大和総研作成

9 Sanjaya Lall “The Technological Structure and Performance of Developing Country Manufactured 
Exports, 1985-1998” Oxford Development Studies Volume 28, 2000 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
95 00 05 10 15 20
一次産品ローテク製品（衣類・履物）ローテク製品（その他）ミディアムテク製品（エンジニアリング）ハイテク製品（電気電子）
（年）
（％）
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
95 00 05 10 15 20一次産品資源加工品ローテク製品（衣類・履物）ローテク製品（その他）ミディアムテク製品（自動車）ミディアムテク製品（エンジニアリング）ハイテク製品（電気電子）
（％）
（年）

### Page 9

1

9 / 9

「雇用量の増加」⇒「生産性と所得を伴う質の高い雇用」への転換期 
以上を踏まえると、現時点でモディ政権の産業政策が十分な「質の高い雇用」を生み出して
いると断定するには時期尚早である。もっとも、電子機器サプライチェーンの工程内深化、内
燃機関から EV（電気自動車）産業への移行、繊維・アパレルを中心とする労働集約型輸出産業
の強化は、前者 2 つの産業で中高技能層、後者で低学歴層に雇用機会を広げる政策として一定
の整合性を有する。今後の焦点は、これらの政策が、PLFS 等で確認される雇用量の改善にとど
まらず、常用雇用の増加、生産性・所得の改善、技能ミスマッチの緩和として表れるかにある。
インドでは地方分権度の高さ、州間格差、電子機器サプライチェーンの集積不足といった制約
が大きく、中国やベトナムの先例よりも成果の顕在化には時間を要する可能性が高い。

---
## Document 542: 宏观经济周报：核心CPI走弱打开降息窗口

Source PDF: all report pdf/宏观经济周报：核心CPI走弱打开降息窗口.pdf
Report source: 国信证券
Date: 2026-07-12
Pages: 13
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

S0980525110002 S0980513100001
基础数据
固定资产投资累计同比 -4.10
社零总额当月同比 -0.60
出口当月同比 19.40
M2 8.60
市场走势
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
相关研究报告
《多资产周报-黄金价格小幅回升》 ——2026-07-05
《宏观经济周报-三季度货币政策宽松可期》 ——2026-07-04
《多资产周报-弱美元叙事动摇》 ——2026-06-29
《宏观经济周报-就业结构隐忧制约消费复苏》 ——2026-06-27
《多资产周报-日元加息难阻贬值》 ——2026-06-20
物价是影响货币政策取向的重要变量，但央行并非对所有的通胀指标一视同
仁。复盘历史，PPI同比曾在2009-2011年、2016-2018年、2020-2022年及
2025年至今四次触及4%以上的高位，但央行仅在2009-2011年和2016-2018
年两轮中加息，后两轮并未跟进；CPI同比曾在2009-2011年和2018-2020
年两次突破 3%，央行仅在首轮加息；而核心 CPI 同比两次触及 2%以上

（2009-2011年、2016-2018年），央行均实施了持续加息。这一规律清晰
表明：央行对通胀的关注聚焦于核心CPI——这一反映总需求温度的指标，
而非受供给侧扰动较大的PPI及CPI。
本周公布的6月核心CPI环比为-0.1%，低于历史同期均值，同比回落至1.0%，
连续两个月走低。回顾今年1-6月，核心CPI环比要么持平、要么低于历史
同期均值，其中5、6月更是连续低于历史同期均值。展望下半年，内需偏
弱的格局难以根本性逆转，核心CPI环比大概率延续低于季节性的态势。而
去年下半年国内核心CPI环比表现相对偏强，这意味着今年下半年核心CPI
同比或持续回落至1%下方，并再次向零靠拢。历史经验表明，央行降息往往
发生在核心CPI同比持平或回落的阶段，5月以来核心CPI的持续走低实际
上已为降息打开了政策窗口。
当前市场对降息方式的疑虑在于，面对经济的K型分化，央行是否会继续选
择结构性降息而非全面降息。我们认为，当前环境下全面降息的必要性更为
突出。核心依据在于投资端——K型分化的“上升臂”目前仅体现在收入和

利润层面，并未传导至投资端。今年1-5月，工业企业收入和利润累计同比
分别为5.5%和18.8%，均显著高于去年同期；但同期工业领域固定资产投资
累计同比仅为0.1%，明显低于去年同期水平。在总需求特别是投资需求持续
走弱的背景下，全面降息在提振实体融资、稳定投资意愿方面的效果应优于
结构性工具。因此，核心CPI回落已打开降息窗口，而投资端的疲弱则进一
步强化了全面降息的合理性。
风险提示：海外市场动荡，存在不确定性。

### Page 2

内容目录
思考：核心 CPI 走弱打开降息窗口 ................................................ 4
周度观察结论：生产景气延续回落态势 ............................................ 4
生产：景气度延续回落态势 ...................................................... 4
消费：需求低位企稳 ............................................................ 5
进出口：运价上行，霍尔木兹通航受阻 ............................................ 6
财政：特别国债资金已基本下达 .................................................. 7
货币：资金面延续宽松 .......................................................... 8

房地产：成交边际回落 .......................................................... 9
风险提示 ..................................................................... 11

### Page 3

图表目录
图1： 螺纹钢指向房地产投资景气下降 ........................................................ 5
图2： 中厚板指向基建投资景气度走弱 ........................................................ 5
图3： 冷轧板指向机电产品生产景气向好 ...................................................... 5
图4： PTA指向纺织服装和包装领域景气下降 ...................................................5
图5： 市内流动：一线城市地铁 .............................................................. 6
图6： 商品消费：物流投递 .................................................................. 6

图7： 大宗消费：汽车销量 .................................................................. 6
图8： 服务消费：电影票房 .................................................................. 6
图9： 中国港口货物吞吐量增速 .............................................................. 7
图10： 中国出口集装箱运价指数 ............................................................. 7
图11： 航线运力投放情况 ................................................................... 7
图12： 外贸词条指数与美股波动率指数 ....................................................... 7

图13： 广义赤字与财政支出 ................................................................. 8
图14： 广义赤字进度 ....................................................................... 8
图15： 特殊再融资债累计发行 ............................................................... 8
图16： 特殊新增专项债发行 ................................................................. 8
图17： DR007与逆回购利率差值指向货币边际宽松 ..............................................9
图18： 存单与逆回购利率差值指向货币边际宽松 ............................................... 9

图19： OMO存量金额大幅下降，低于历史均值 ..................................................9
图20： 银行间待购回债券余额震荡回落，低于历史均值 ......................................... 9
图21： 一手房成交 ........................................................................ 10
图22： 二手房成交 ........................................................................ 10
图23： 二手房价指数 ...................................................................... 10
图24： 土地成交数量 ...................................................................... 10

### Page 4

思考：核心 CPI 走弱打开降息窗口
物价是影响货币政策取向的重要变量，但央行并非对所有的通胀指标一视
同仁。复盘历史，PPI 同比曾在 2009-2011 年、2016-2018 年、2020-2022
年及 2025 年至今四次触及 4%以上的高位，但央行仅在 2009-2011 年和
2016-2018 年两轮中加息，后两轮并未跟进；CPI 同比曾在 2009-2011 年
和 2018-2020 年两次突破 3%，央行仅在首轮加息；而核心 CPI 同比两次触
及 2%以上（2009-2011 年、2016-2018 年），央行均实施了持续加息。这
一规律清晰表明：央行对通胀的关注聚焦于核心 CPI——这一反映总需求
温度的指标，而非受供给侧扰动较大的 PPI 及 CPI。
本周公布的 6 月核心 CPI 环比为-0.1%，低于历史同期均值，同比回落至
1.0%，连续两个月走低。回顾今年 1-6 月，核心 CPI 环比要么持平、要么
低于历史同期均值，其中 5、6 月更是连续低于历史同期均值。展望下半

年，内需偏弱的格局难以根本性逆转，核心 CPI 环比大概率延续低于季节
性的态势。而去年下半年国内核心 CPI 环比表现相对偏强，这意味着今年
下半年核心 CPI 同比或持续回落至 1%下方，并再次向零靠拢。历史经验表
明，央行降息往往发生在核心 CPI 同比持平或回落的阶段，5 月以来核心
CPI 的持续走低实际上已为降息打开了政策窗口。
当前市场对降息方式的疑虑在于，面对经济的 K 型分化，央行是否会继续
选择结构性降息而非全面降息。我们认为，当前环境下全面降息的必要性
更为突出。核心依据在于投资端——K 型分化的“上升臂”目前仅体现在
收入和利润层面，并未传导至投资端。今年 1-5 月，工业企业收入和利润
累计同比分别为 5.5%和 18.8%，均显著高于去年同期；但同期工业领域固
定资产投资累计同比仅为 0.1%，明显低于去年同期水平。在总需求特别是
投资需求持续走弱的背景下，全面降息在提振实体融资、稳定投资意愿方
面的效果应优于结构性工具。因此，核心 CPI 回落已打开降息窗口，而投

资端的疲弱则进一步强化了全面降息的合理性。
周度观察结论：生产景气延续回落态势
本周生产端景气度延续回落，房地产与基建投资走弱，机电产品受出口需
求支撑有所回暖，纺织服装领域景气下降，整体工业品生产热度持续降温。
消费端低位企稳，市内出行总体平稳，物流延续下行但同比小幅改善。商
品消费季节性回落，汽车修复基础仍不稳固，服务消费平淡，居民消费意
愿依然偏弱。
外贸维持高景气，港口吞吐量高位小幅回调，运价延续上行但动能边际放
缓，运力投放全线扩张。美伊冲突打谈交织，霍尔木兹通航持续受阻，地
缘风险溢价高位运行。
房地产市场季节性回落，新房与二手房成交环比下行，库存去化不及季节
性。房价继续边际承压，一线城市报价指数均回落，市场调整尚未结束。
生产：景气度延续回落态势
本周，与房地产投资相关的螺纹钢产量同比有所下降，库存同比依旧上升，

### Page 5

指向相关需求持续降温；与基建投资相关的中厚板产量有所下降，沥青开
工率同比维持稳定，表明整体基建活动活跃度偏弱；与机电产品生产相关
的冷轧板产量同比回升至正值，库存同比有所下降，指向机电产品的生产
景气有所回暖，出口需求延续高景气；与纺织服装和包装领域生产相关的
PTA 开工率和库存同比均有所下降，表明企业生产意愿和累库意愿回落，
或与市场需求走弱有关。
因此，上述生产高频数据指向本周房地产投资、基建投资以及纺织服装和
包装领域景气有所下降、机电产品生产景气有所回升。整体来看，本周国
内工业品生产景气或延续回落态势。
图1：螺纹钢指向房地产投资景气下降 图2：中厚板指向基建投资景气度走弱
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
图3：冷轧板指向机电产品生产景气向好 图4：PTA指向纺织服装和包装领域景气下降
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
消费：需求低位企稳
市内基础出行总体平稳。从一线城市地铁流量观察，本周（7月 3日-7 月 9 日）

日均流量约 3920.6 万人次，环比上升 0.4%，居民日常出行总体平稳；同比下降
3.2%，降幅较上周（-5.8%）小幅收窄。
线上消费延续下行态势。反映商业活跃度和居民消费的物流高频数据显示，最新
一周（6月29日-7月5日）邮政快递投递量环比下降1.3%，降幅较去年同期（-2.0%）
边际收窄，显示线上消费整体增长动能仍偏弱，或受电商促销空窗期影响；同比

### Page 6

增速上涨 4.0%，相较上周（3.3%）小幅扩大。
从具体消费品类看：商品消费季节性回落，文娱消费总体平淡。 商品消费方面，
最新一周（6 月 27 日-7 月 3 日）乘用车销量环比季节性回落 23.7%，较去年同期
（-35.2%）有所收窄；同比下降 8.8%，年初以来累计较去年同期萎缩约 19.3%，
显示汽车消费修复基础尚不牢固。服务消费方面，本周（7 月 4 日-7 月 10 日）日
均电影票房约 6900.3 万元，环比小幅回升 6.1%；同比显著下降 27.4%，降幅较上
周（-34.6%）略有收窄，片源或仍是制约观影需求的关键因素。
图7：大宗消费：汽车销量 图8：服务消费：电影票房
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
进出口：运价上行，霍尔木兹通航受阻
吞吐量高位小幅回调。本周中国港口货物吞吐量为 2.63 亿吨，环比下降 2.87%；
集装箱吞吐量 683.2 万 TEU，环比回落 5.31%。上周货物吞吐量为 2.70亿吨，本

周有所回落，但仍处于年内相对高位区间，外贸发运整体平稳。
运价延续上行，动能边际放缓。本周 CCFI 升至 1873.15 点，环比上涨 3.42%，已
连续多周上行；但环比涨幅较前两周 5.89%、6.97%明显收窄，上行动能有所减弱。
SCFI环比回落 4.27%至 3184.83点，与 CCFI 走势背离，即期市场运价边际承压。
图5：市内流动：一线城市地铁 图6：商品消费：物流投递
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理

### Page 7

运力投放全线扩张，中东印巴领涨。本周七大主要航线运力环比普遍上行，中东
印巴航线投放 255211TEU，环比大增 26.2%，居增幅之首；欧洲、美东、东南亚、
美西航线分别增长 16.6%、15.4%、14.6%、12.4%。外贸运力重心在亚洲区域高位
运行的同时，跨太平洋与欧洲航线同步走强。
美伊冲突“打谈交织”，霍尔木兹通航持续受阻。美军 7 月 8 日对伊朗阿巴斯港、
恰巴哈尔港等目标发动新一轮打击，受袭船事件影响，霍尔木兹海峡油轮通行连
续下降、几近停滞，美国财政部 7 月 10 日并追加对伊金融制裁。双方均无意令冲
突全面失控，“打打谈谈”或成常态，油价与航运风险溢价短期仍将高位运行。
图9：中国港口货物吞吐量增速 图10：中国出口集装箱运价指数
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
图11：航线运力投放情况 图12：外贸词条指数与美股波动率指数
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理

财政：特别国债资金已基本下达
广义赤字本周略微加速，下周回落。广义赤字（国债净融资+新增地方债发行）本
周（7/6-7/12）3898 亿。下周预计 2560 亿，累计 6.0 万亿。其中国债净融资累
计 3.4万亿，同比少约 4498亿；新增专项债累计发行 2.2万亿，同比少发约 2125
亿；新增一般债累计 4067亿，同比少发约 874亿。总体来看各项政府债节奏仍然
落后去年，预计三季度逐渐提速，并在 9月迎来高峰。
今年投资相关的超长期特别国债资金已全部下达。据发改委 7月 6日披露，2026

### Page 8

年第三批“两重”额度指标已下达，安排超长期特别国债资金 1935亿，今年“两
重”建设项目清单已全部下达完毕。同时分三批下达超长期特别国债资金支持设
备更新，全年 2000亿设备更新资金总额目前已下达完毕；今年第三批 625 亿消费
品以旧换新资金额度指标也已下达，目前合计已下达 2500 亿中的 1875亿。
化债方面，特殊再融资专项债已发行 1.7 万亿。本周特殊再融资专项债发行 362
亿，下周预计发行 271亿，今年累计发行进度 85%，仍低于去年同期（1.82 万亿），
预计三季度基本发行完毕。特殊新增专项债目前已发行 5153亿，土地储备专项债
已发行 1776 亿。
图13： 广义赤字与财政支出 图14：广义赤字进度
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
图15：特殊再融资债累计发行 图16：特殊新增专项债发行
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
货币：资金面延续宽松
本周，DR007 与逆回购利率差值回落至负值，约等于历史同期水平；1 年

同月存单与逆回购利率差值亦小幅回落，处于历史同期较低水平；OMO 存
量金额季节性大幅回落，低于历史同期均值；银行间待购回债券余额季节
性震荡回落，低于历史同期均值。

### Page 9

上述高频数据指向本周货币市场延续宽松态势；央行 OMO 存量大幅回落，
源于央行在季末维稳资金面加大力度投放后自然回收，并未影响资金面走
向宽松；债券市场加杠杆意愿继续下降，待购回债券余额低于过去两年均
值。
图17：DR007与逆回购利率差值指向货币边际宽松 图18：存单与逆回购利率差值指向货币边际宽松
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
图19：OMO存量金额大幅下降，低于历史均值 图20：银行间待购回债券余额震荡回落，低于历史均值
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
房地产：成交边际回落
成交量方面，房地产周度成交一二手房均随季节性有所下行。30 大中城市
商品房日均成交套数本周环比下行，当周同比回落至 5.4%，略高于过去年
同期水平。18 城二手房成交环比同意下行，当周同比上行至 13.0%，超过
2025 年同期水平，略低于 2024 年同期。库存季节性回落，但回落幅度不
及季节性，十大城市存销比录得 74.0，前值 80.2，为 2019 年至今同期最

高。
土地成交季节性上行，但仍在近年低位。从 100 大中城市土地成交数据来
看，土地成交数量上周为 552 宗，环比大幅上行，当周同比-9.1%，预计 6
月土地出让收入将继续保持低迷，7 月或有所回暖。楼面均价环比略微上

### Page 10

行，溢价率均下行。
价格上，高频数据显示房价继续边际承压。四大一线城市的中原报价指数
继续低位运行，切均出现回落，这意味着后续统计局二手房房价环比将回
落。二手房量价指数均处于历史低位，挂牌量指数边际反弹，价格指数在
继续下行的过程中，尚未出现企稳。
图21：一手房成交 图22：二手房成交
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
图23：二手房价指数 图24：土地成交数量
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理

### Page 11

风险提示
海外市场动荡，存在不确定性。

### Page 12

证券研究报告
免责声明
分析师声明
作者保证报告所采用的数据均来自合规渠道；分析逻辑基于作者的职业理解，通过合理判断并得出结论，
力求独立、客观、公正，结论不受任何第三方的授意或影响；作者在过去、现在或未来未就其研究报告
所提供的具体建议或所表述的意见直接或间接收取任何报酬，特此声明。
国信证券投资评级
投资评级标准 类别 级别 说明
报告中投资建议所涉及的评级（如有）分为股票评
级和行业评级（另有说明的除外）。评级标准为报
告发布日后6到 12个月内的相对市场表现，也即报
告发布日后的6到12个月内公司股价（或行业指数）
相对同期相关证券市场代表性指数的涨跌幅作为基
准。A股市场以沪深 300指数（000300.SH）作为基
准；新三板市场以三板成指（899001.CSI）为基准；
香港市场以恒生指数(HSI.HI)作为基准；美国市场
以标普 500指数(SPX.GI)或纳斯达克指数
（IXIC.GI）为基准。
股票
投资评级
优于大市 股价表现优于市场代表性指数 10%以上
中性 股价表现介于市场代表性指数±10%之间
弱于大市 股价表现弱于市场代表性指数 10%以上
无评级 股价与市场代表性指数相比无明确观点
行业
投资评级
优于大市 行业指数表现优于市场代表性指数 10%以上
中性 行业指数表现介于市场代表性指数±10%之间
弱于大市 行业指数表现弱于市场代表性指数 10%以上
重要声明
本报告由国信证券股份有限公司（已具备中国证监会许可的证券投资咨询业务资格）制作；报告版权归
国信证券股份有限公司

### Page 13

证券研究报告
国信证券经济研究所
深圳
深圳市福田区福华一路 125 号国信金融大厦 36 层
邮编：518046 总机：0755-82130833
上海
上海浦东民生路 1199 弄证大五道口广场 1 号楼 12 层
邮编：200135
北京
北京西城区金融大街兴盛街 6 号国信证券 9 层
邮编：100032

---
## Document 548: 家計調査でみる「預貯金純増」は、なぜ残高に積み上がらないのか ～キャッシュレス時代に強まる預金口座の「決済ハブ」機能～

Source PDF: all report pdf/家計調査でみる「預貯金純増」は、なぜ残高に積み上がらないのか ～キャッシュレス時代に強まる預金口座の「決済ハブ」機能～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-06-29
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Flash Insights

2026 年 6 月 29 日

1/4 
家計調査でみる「預貯金純増」は、なぜ残高に積み上がらないのか 
～キャッシュレス時代に強まる預金口座の「決済ハブ」機能～ 
 政策調査部 フェロー  谷口 智明

1．預貯金純増と預貯金残高前年差はなぜ異なるのか 
総務省「家計調査報告（家計収支編） 」で、二人以上世帯のうち勤労者世帯（以下、 「勤労者世
帯」 ）の金融資産純増の内訳をみると、2025 年には預貯金純増がその約9 割を占めている。一方、
同「家計調査報告（貯蓄・負債編） 」で、預貯金残高の前年差を確認すると、同程度の金額が積み
上がっているわけではない（資料1）。 
もっとも、家計収支編の預貯金純増と、貯蓄・負債編の預貯金残高前年差は、厳密に一致する
ものではない。預貯金純増は、毎月の家計簿上で預入から引出を差し引いた資金の流れを年額換
算したものであり、預貯金残高の前年差は、年平均残高が前年からどれだけ変化したかを示すも
のである。つまり、前者は一定期間の資金の流れを示す「フロー」、後者は年平均残高という「ス
トック」の変化を示すものであり、調査設計や集計概念も異なる。そのうえで、近年、フローの
預貯金純増に比べてストックの預貯金残高前年差が小さく見えることは、預貯金純増がそのまま
残高に積み上がる「貯まったお金」とは限らないことを示している。

資料 1 勤労者世帯における預貯金純増と預貯金残高前年差の推移 
（注）預貯金純増は、家計調査報告（家計収支編）において勤労者世帯の月平均額を 12 倍して年額換算。預貯金は、通貨性預
貯金（通常貯金・普通預金・当座預金等）と定期性預貯金（定期貯金・定期預金等）の合計で、年平均残高の前年差。 
（出所）総務省「家計調査報告（家計収支編）」、同「家計調査報告（貯蓄・負債編）」より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

拙稿（谷口（2026） ）では、この預貯金純増の背景について、家計の黒字の拡大、生活防衛資金
への需要、保険純増の縮小、キャッシュレス決済の普及など、複数の要因が重なっている可能性
▲ 50
0
50
100
150
200
250
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
（フロー）預貯金純増
（ストック）預貯金残高前年差
（ストック）通貨性預貯金残高前年差（再掲）
万円
年

### Page 2

2/4 
を指摘した。つまり、預貯金純増には、残高として積み上がる資金だけでなく、日々の支払いや
将来への備え、資産形成に振り向け得る余裕資金など、性格の異なる資金が含まれている可能性
がある。本稿では、キャッシュレス化による預金口座の役割変化を手がかりに、こうした預貯金
純増の中身を読み解く。

2．キャッシュレス化と預貯金純増の同時進行 
キャッシュレス決済比率と預貯金純増の推移を確認する。ここではまず、社会全体のキャッシ
ュレス化の進展を示すマクロ指標として、経済産業省が公表するキャッシュレス決済比率を用い
る（資料2）。

資料 2 キャッシュレス決済比率と預貯金純増の推移 
（注）キャッシュレス決済比率は、（クレジットカード支払額＋デビットカード支払額＋電子マネー支払額＋コード決済支払額）を（家
計最終消費支出－持ち家の帰属家賃）で除して算出。預貯金純増は、家計調査報告（家計収支編）において勤労者世帯の月平
均額を 12 倍して年額換算。 
（出所）経済産業省「キャッシュレス決済額・比率の内訳の推移（2010～2025 年）」、総務省「家計調査報告（家計収支編）」より第
一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

資料 2 のとおり、キャッシュレス決済比率は、2010 年代半ばまでは緩やかに上昇していたが、
2018 年頃から上昇基調が一段と明確になった。2025 年には58.0％となり、キャッシュレス決済は
日常的な支払い手段として定着しつつある。同時期に、家計調査の勤労者世帯における預貯金純
増も大きく増加している。2010 年代半ばまではおおむね年50 万～70 万円台で推移していたが、
2018 年頃から水準が切り上がり、2025 年には年212.5 万円となった。もっとも、家計調査では
2018 年1 月から、決済手段の多様化への対応や記入の正確性向上を目的に、調査票の様式や調査
事項の変更、オンライン調査の導入などが行われている。このため、2018 年前後の変化を読む際
には、調査方法の変更による影響が含まれ得る点にも留意が必要だ。 
そのうえで、キャッシュレス化の進展と預貯金純増の増加が同じ時期に進んでいる点は注目さ
れる。この間の両者の相関係数は0.9619 と高い。ただし、これは両系列が同じ時期に上昇してき
たことを示すものであり、預貯金純増の増加分の多くが、キャッシュレス化によって説明できる
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0
50
100
150
200
250
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
預貯金純増
キャッシュレス決済比率（右軸）
万円 ％
年

### Page 3

3/4 
という意味ではない。むしろ本稿の主張は、キャッシュレス化が進むなかで預金口座の利用実態
が変化し、家計調査上の預貯金純増を「純粋な貯蓄増」とだけ読むことが難しくなっている、と
いう点にある。 
次に、家計調査で2020 年以降把握できる購入形態別支出を用いて、キャッシュレス購入額から
キャッシュレス決済比率を算出し、預貯金純増との関係を確認する（資料3） 。この指標は、経済
産業省のマクロベースのキャッシュレス決済比率とは異なり、家計の購入行動により近い動きを
捉えるものである。ただし、家計調査におけるキャッシュレス購入額は二人以上世帯全体を対象
としている一方、預貯金純増は二人以上世帯のうち勤労者世帯を対象としている。そのため、両
者は完全に同一の世帯群を示すものではない点には留意が必要だ。

資料 3 家計調査でみたキャッシュレス決済額・決済比率と預貯金純増の推移 
（注）キャッシュレス決済比率は、二人以上世帯の購入形態別支出金額のうち「クレジット」「電子マネー」「口座間振込」の合計を、
財・サービス支出額合計で除して算出。預貯金純増は二人以上世帯のうち勤労者世帯の月平均額を 12 倍して年額換算。 
（出所）総務省「家計調査報告（家計収支編）」より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

資料 3 をみると、キャッシュレス購入額は増加傾向にあり、キャッシュレス決済比率も上昇基
調にある。2025 年には、キャッシュレス購入額が年226.9 万円、キャッシュレス決済比率が
64.4％となった。同期間に、預貯金純増も概ね高い水準を維持している。 
これは、家計調査でみても、キャッシュレス決済の拡大と預貯金純増の高まりが、おおむね同
じ方向に動いていることを示している。キャッシュレス決済が増えるほど、現金を引き出して支
払う機会は減り、預金口座を経由する支払いは増えやすくなる。こうした点は、キャッシュレス
化が家計調査上の預貯金純増の見え方・意味合いに影響している可能性を示唆しており、家計の
資金管理の変化を読むうえでの重要な要素と考えられる。

3．「決済ハブ」としての役割を強める預金口座 
キャッシュレス化が預貯金純増の見え方に関係し得るのは、現金払いとキャッシュレス払いで
は、預金口座に資金が滞留する期間や、口座から資金が出ていくタイミングが異なるためであ
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0
50
100
150
200
250
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
預貯金純増
キャッシュレス購入額合計
キャッシュレス決済比率（右軸）
万円 ％
年

### Page 4

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
4/4 
る。現金払いの場合、給与や賞与が預金口座に入った後、家計は日々の支払いのために現金を引
き出す。一方、キャッシュレス払いが増えると、現金を引き出す機会は減少し、支払いはクレジ
ットカード、電子マネー、コード決済、口座振替などを通じて処理される。預金口座は、給与受
取の場であると同時に、さまざまな支払いを処理する決済の起点になる。特に、クレジットカー
ドや一部のポストペイ型決済では、購入時点と口座引き落とし時点にずれがある。購入時点では
預金口座に資金が滞留し、翌月以降に引き落とされるため、キャッシュレス利用が拡大している
局面では、預貯金純増の見え方に影響する可能性もある。ただし、利用方法によって預金口座へ
の影響は異なるため、すべてのキャッシュレス決済が同じ影響を持つわけではない。 
もちろん、この時間差だけで、預貯金純増と預貯金残高前年差の乖離全体を説明できるわけで
はない。むしろ重要なのは、キャッシュレス決済、口座振替、各種引き落し、投資積立などを通
じて、家計資金が預金口座を経由する規模が拡大している点である。こうした変化により、預金
口座は、家計の支払いを処理する起点であると同時に、備えや資産形成に向かう資金をつなぐ
「決済ハブ」としての役割を強めている。

4．預金口座を起点とする資産形成 
以上を踏まえると、キャッシュレス時代の預貯金純増は、 「貯蓄から投資」を考えるうえでも捉
え直す必要がある。預貯金純増を「預貯金志向」の表れだけとして読むと、 「預貯金を減らして投
資へ移す」という発想になりやすい。しかし実際には、預金口座には生活費や決済資金、生活防
衛資金、将来の資産形成に回し得る資金が混在している。したがって、求められるのは預貯金を
一律に減らすことではなく、口座内の資金を「使う資金」 「備える資金」 「育てる資金」に分けて
捉えることである。 
すでに預金口座から証券口座への自動積立といった仕組みは広がっている。今後は、預金口座
を単なる給与受取や支払いの場にとどめず、固定費やカード返済等を差し引いた後の余裕資金を
把握し、資産形成へつなげる家計管理の起点として位置づけていくことが肝要だ。 
金融教育においても、 「預貯金を減らして投資する」より、「必要な預貯金を確保したうえで、
残る資金を育てる」という説明の方が、家計の実感に近いだろう。キャッシュレス時代の「貯蓄
から投資」は、預金口座に集まる資金の性格を見極め、それぞれの役割に応じて適切に配分しな
がら、無理のない資産形成へと結び付けていく視点が重要である。

以 上

【参考文献】 
・経済産業省（2026）「2025 年のキャッシュレス決済比率を算出しました」 
（https://www.meti.go.jp/press/2025/03/20260331006/20260331006.html） 
・谷口智明（2026）「新NISA時代でも、家計はなぜ預貯金を選ぶのか～家計調査でみる『貯蓄から
投資』の現在地と次の変化～」（https://www.dlri.co.jp/report/asset/623109.html）

---
## Document 559: 工作機械受注が教えてくれる日本株・世界経済（26 年６月）

Source PDF: all report pdf/工作機械受注が教えてくれる日本株・世界経済（26 年６月）.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-07-10
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 7 月 10 日(金)

1/5 
工作機械受注が教えてくれる日本株・世界経済（26 年６月）  
経済調査部主席エコノミスト藤代宏一 
（℡：050-5474-6123）

・筆者が世界景気と日本株の先行きを読むために、定点観測する工作機械受注統計（日本工作機械
工業会）は離陸を果たし、高度を上げる段階に移行している。昨年後半以降、通商政策の不透明
感が後退するなか、半導体需要に裏打ちされた米国向けと中国向けの受注に加速感がみられる。
この間、国内の設備投資計画も堅調であることを踏まえると、全体として回復傾向が頓挫する可
能性は低い。

・７月９日に発表された2026年６月の受注額（原数値）は2,035億円であった。前年比では＋52.8％
へと伸び率を高め、10ヶ月連続で２桁の伸びを達成。単月の受注額は過去最高を記録。筆者作成
・日経平均株価は先行き12 ヶ月72,000円程度で推移するだろう 
・USD/JPYは先行き12ヶ月 155円程度で推移するだろう 
・日銀は政策金利を26年 12 月に1.25％とした後、28年央までに2.0％とするだろう。 
・FEDはFF金利を、年内は3.75％で据え置くだろう。 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
90 92 94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
工作機械受注
(備考）工作機械受注統計により作成
（億円）

### Page 2

2/5 
の季節調整値（以下同じ）は前月比＋10.4％、３ヶ月平均値では＋4.5％となり、力強い成長軌道
にある。単月の内訳は「国内向け」の季節調整済み前月比が＋10.5％、前年比では＋45.5％へと
加速した。人手不足と建設コスト増が足かせとなり、設備投資の進捗は遅々としているものの、
企業の設備投資意欲は強い。関連指標の機械受注統計（内閣府）に目を向けると、受注残高およ
び手持ち月数はいずれも積み上がっている。この間、「外需」は前月比＋10.9％、３ヶ月平均で
は＋2.5％と力強い増加基調にあり、前年比でみても＋56.0％と強い。地域別詳細は確報を待つ必
要があるが、５月までの傾向から判断すると中国と米国向けが増加基調を維持したとみられる。

・日本の工作機械受注は、そのサイクルがグローバル製造業ＰＭＩやアナリストの業績予想(TOPIX
予想ＥＰＳ)と連動性を有する。６月のグローバル製造業ＰＭＩは52.2と、好不況の分岐点とされ
る50を11ヶ月連続で上回った。ＡＩ関連需要に喚起され、新規受注の回復が継続し、世界的に景
況感の改善がみられている。そうしたなか、TOPIXの予想EPSは、半導体需要の拡大に加え、企業
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
工作機械受注
(備考）工作機械受注統計により作成
（前年比、％）
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
1600
10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
工作機械受注
(備考）工作機械受注統計により作成
国内向け
外需
（億円）
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
工作機械受注「外需」（地域別）
(備考）工作機械受注統計より作成
米国
中国
（億円）
欧州
韓国・台湾

### Page 3

3/5 
による資本効率改善の取り組みも奏功し、拡大基調を維持している。

・製造業ＰＭＩを地域別にみると、日本は54.8へと0.3pt上昇した。半導体関連の引き合いが強いな
か、自動車生産も緩やかに持ち直しており、生産活動は回復している。この間、個人消費も復調
の気配がある。日銀が算出する実質消費活動指数は、耐久財の増加によって持ち直しつつある。
ＩＴ関連財の生産集積地である台湾は55.2へと0.9pt低下した。もっとも、輸出受注額は増勢を強
めており、市況が軟化する兆候は乏しい。韓国は52.1へと2.7pt低下したものの、これは５月に
54.8と約６年ぶりに高水準に到達した反動もあったとみられる。半導体関連価格が急騰するな
か、大手メーカーが増産を急いでいることから、その波及効果が窺われる。輸出金額は６月も著
しい伸びを記録していた。

-100
-50
0
50
100
150
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
工作機械受注・予想ＥＰＳ
(備考）工作機械受注統計、LSEGにより作成
工作機械受注
（前年比、％）
TOPIX
予想EPS
40
42
44
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
60
-120
-100
-80
-60
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
工作機械受注・グローバル製造業ＰＭＩ
(備考）工作機械受注統計,S&P Globalにより作成
工作機械受注
グローバル製造業ＰＭＩ
（右）
(前年比、％)
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
消費活動指数
(備考）日銀より作成 旅行収支調整後
（2020=100）
名目
実質
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
台湾 輸出受注・製造業ＰＭＩ
(備考）台湾経済部,S&P Globalにより作成
（前年比、％）
製造業ＰＭＩ
（右）
輸出受注

### Page 4

4/5 
・米国は53.9へと1.2pt低下も高水準を維持。米国内におけるＡＩ関連投資が隆盛を極めるなか、そ
の恩恵が広がりを持ちつつあることを示唆している。データセンター投資は半導体に限らず建
設、電力インフラ、冷却装置といった業種に恩恵をもたらしている。ユーロ圏は51.5へと0.1pt低
下した。それでもドイツは50.3、フランスは51.2とそれぞれ50を上回っており、景況感は悪くな
い。産業構造上、ＡＩ関連投資や半導体需要の恩恵を受けにくいものの、域内景気は底堅い。

・中国は50.4へと2.1pt上昇した。ＡＩ開発に取り組む中国企業の投資が、関連需要を誘発した可能
性が指摘できる。この間、政策当局は不動産市況の悪化やトランプ関税への対応として景気対策
を強化しており、一方的な減速は回避されている。もっとも、中国当局の政策態度を映じるとさ
れるマネー関連統計に目を向けると、５月の社会融資総量（新規フローの12ヶ月平均値）は前月
比▲0.8％と３ヶ月連続で減少し、残高は前年比＋7.7％へと減速した。新規融資のＧＤＰ比（前
年差）をとった通称クレジットインパルスも▲2.4ptと下を向いており、景気の方向感を示す指標
はまだら模様となっている。この指標が日本株の先行指標として機能してきた経緯を踏まえる
と、先行きの日本株にはやや警戒が必要かもしれない。

・工作機械受注サイクルの位置取りを確認するために、縦軸に受注額の水準（36ヶ月平均値からの
乖離）、横軸に方向感（６ヶ月前比）をとった循環図をみると、2025年央までは中心点付近で小
さな渦を描いていたが、2026年入り後ははっきりと右上領域に移行している。過去の経験則に従
えば、今後も右上方向へ進み、回復傾向が一段と鮮明になると予想される。半導体需要に裏打ち
された設備投資は、今後しばらくは増勢を強めると予想される。もっとも、循環図が左方向に進
む頃に、相場は下降局面を織り込みにいくのが過去の経験則である。シリコンサイクルが何合目
に位置するのか、その目安を探る意味でも、この指標を定点観測していく。 
0
1
2
3
4
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
中国 社会融資総量
(備考）LSEGにより作成
（兆元）
単月
12ヶ月平均
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26 27
日経平均・中国クレジットインパルス
(備考）Bloombergより作成
（％pt）
クレジットインパルスは
新規与信・GDP比の前年差
日経平均
クレジット・インパルス
（６ヶ月先行、右）
（前年比、％）

### Page 5

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
5/5

-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
-60 -40 -20 0 20 40 60
(36ヶ月平均からの乖離,pt)
(６ヶ月前比、％）
工作機械受注
(備考)工作機械受注統計 2013.1～直近3ヶ月を赤表示
最新値

---
## Document 583: 早盘提示

Source PDF: all report pdf/早盘提示.pdf
Report source: 格林期货
Date: 2026-07-10
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

研究员：   于军礼       从业资格： F0247894   交易咨询资格：Z0000112 
联系方式：yujunli@greendh.com 
板块 品种 多（空）  
宏观与 
金融 
全球 
经济

（向下）

【重要资讯】 
1、高盛发布报告，建议客户将仓位从韩国 AI 交易切换至“中国 AI 价值链”，推
出覆盖电力、半导体、AI 基础设施等全链条的股票篮子。该行认为，中国 AI 市值
约 4 万亿美元，全球基金配置比例仅 1.2%，存在显著低配。 
2、摩根大通发声，聚焦半导体设备材料。首选半导体设备，其次是半导体材料，
之后才是晶圆代工、封测，芯片设计只剩下零星的题材机会。海外设备交期不断拉
长，国内企业订单已经排到了后面好几年，业绩确定性非常强。 
3、抄底资金涌向美国芯片 ETF。据彭博 ETF 专家Eric Balchunas 的数据，大量资
金（可以说前所未有）在周二涌入半导体 ETF SOXX，规模高达 54 亿美元，创下新
纪录（是此前单日最高规模的 4 倍）。 
4、Meta 豪掷百亿美元在加拿大阿尔伯塔省建设 1 吉瓦超级数据中心，建成后将成
其美国境外最大算力基地。然而，Meta 仍深陷质疑——1450 亿美元资本支出预算、
AI 大模型的竞争落后与模糊的变现逻辑，正让投资者耐心接受考验。 
5、美联储 6 月会议纪要显示，官员们普遍认为，如果今年通胀持续处于高位，就
需要进一步提高利率。 同时越来越多的官员认为，AI 投资热潮可能成为通胀持续维
持高位的重要推动因素。 
6、美国经通胀调整后的国债收益率升至逾一年来最高水平，因为油价上涨与经济
依然强劲的双重因素，再次引发市场对美联储将在未来几个月内开始加息的猜测。
10 年期美国通胀保值债券收益率周三升至约 2.3%，为 2025 年4 月以来最高水平。 
7、SpaceXAI 发布了一款与 AI 编程初创公司Cursor 联合开发的新型人工智能模型
Grok 4.5，旨在提升其在金融、法律及编程等任务上的能力。这是马斯克旗下公司
追赶 Anthropic 和 OpenAI 等竞争对手的最新举措。 
8、OpenAI 发布全新的语音模型 GPT-Live，同步升级ChatGPT 语音模式。新模型采
用原生实时架构，可实现人类与 AI 之间更加自然的双向语音交流，能够在后台无
缝调用 GPT-5.5 等模型完成复杂推理和联网搜索 
早盘提示 
Morning session notice

更多精彩内容请关注格林大华期货官方微信 
格林大华期货研究院  证监许可【2011】1288 号    2026 年 7 月 10 日 星期五

### Page 2

【全球经济逻辑】 
    高盛发布报告，建议客户将仓位从韩国AI 交易切换至“中国AI 价值链”，推
出覆盖电力、半导体、AI 基础设施等全链条的股票篮子。该行认为，中国 AI 市值
约 4 万亿美元，全球基金配置比例仅 1.2%，存在显著低配。中国AI 大模型凭借极
致性价比与逼近前沿的性能， 在美国市场Token 占比从一年前的不足2%飙升至46%，
超过 80%的美国 AI 初创企业正在使用中国开源模型。华为韬定律V2 版发布，国内
半导体产业链从韬定律 EDA 立体芯片设计、到逻辑折叠半导体设备、半导体材料，
都将迎来全新的发展机遇。韩国 800 万亿韩元存储集群计划引发周期见顶担忧，但
美银认为新产能最快 2033 年后才释放，短期供需无虞。市场将"宣布投资"等同于"
供给释放"，犯了严重的时间错配错误。韩国建厂在相当长时间内不会影响供需格
局。 三星集团发布投资计划， 宣布将投资11.68 万亿元人民币布局未来产业。 其中，
8.93 万亿元人民币将投向半导体产业集群建设。苹果被曝正游说美国政府， 寻求获
准采购长鑫存储内存芯片，真正驱动力是 2027 年全球内存供应缺口将持续扩大。
美国债务问题已越过不可逆转的临界点，债券供过于求推高长期利率，最终将美联
储逼入”加息伤经济、降息促通胀”的滞胀困局，债务危机已不可避免。 
达里欧警告称，AI 热潮已经呈现出典型的泡沫特征，泡沫最终会走向破裂。 
中国 AI 模型正以"白菜价"杀入美国企业市场——比 Anthropic、OpenAI 便宜
60%至 90%，性能差距却已缩至"六到九个月"。美企使用中国模型的占比从 4.5%骤
升至峰值 46%。 
高盛副董事长 Kaplan 发出严厉警告：美联储最早秋季重启加息，且极可能连
续出手 2 至3 次。 
由于美国连续的错误政策，全球经济已在 2025 年底越过顶部区域，持续向下
运行。

---
## Document 632: 米国景気概況（2026年7月）

Source PDF: all report pdf/米国景気概況（2026年7月）.pdf
Report source: MURC
Date: 2026-07-03
Pages: 9
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

経済調査
米国景気概況（2026年7月）
2026年7月3日
調査部 主任研究員
細尾 忠生

### Page 2

1 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
景気は底堅い
（出所）米商務省 （出所）米供給管理協会
米国経済は堅調に推移している。1-3月期の実質GDP成長率は前期比年率2.1%に加速した。輸入が1年ぶりに増加し成
長率を押し下げたが、個人消費が底堅く推移し、設備投資はおよそ3年ぶりの高い伸びを記録した。企業の景況感を示す
ISM景況指数は、製造業、非製造業いずれも判断の目安となる50の水準を上回った。先行き、堅調な個人消費やAI需要
の一段の高まりなどから景気は底堅く推移する見込みである。
実質GDP ISM景況指数
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（前期比年率、％）
（年、四半期）
40
45
50
55
60
65
16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
製造業
非製造業
（年、月次）
（％）

### Page 3

2 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
（注） 2025年10月の失業率は欠損値
（出所）米労働省
生産、雇用は増加
（出所）米FRB
 5月の鉱工業生産は前月比0.1%増加した。自動車・部品が同0.5%増加したほか、鉱業も同1.3%増加した。また、設備
投資動向を示す5月のコア資本財出荷は同0.3%増と4カ月連続で増加した。
 6月の非農業部門雇用者数は前月差5.7万人増加した。業種別では、教育・医療（同6.9万人増）、専門サービス（同3.6
万人増）、建設（同1.1万人増）の増加幅が大きかった。また、失業率は4.2%に低下した。
鉱工業生産 雇 用
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
全体（左） 自動車・自動車部品（右）
（2017年=100）
（年、月次）
（2017年=100）
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
-20
-10

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
21 22 23 24 25 26
雇用者数（左） 失業率（右）
（前月差、万人） （％）
（年、月次）

### Page 4

3 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
消費は増加、物価上昇率はガソリン高が懸念
（出所）米商務省
 5月の実質個人消費は前月比0.3%増加した。内訳をみると、自動車などの耐久財消費が同0.9%増、ガソリンなどの非
耐久財消費は同0.3%増、外食、宿泊などのサービス消費が同0.2%増加した。
 消費者物価（エネルギーと食料品を除くコアベース）上昇率は、5月は前年比3.1%に加速した。また、FRBが重視する個
人消費支出物価指数（同）上昇率は、5月は同3.4%に加速、およそ2年半ぶりの高い伸びとなった。先行き、サービスは
鈍化傾向にあるが、財は関税に加え、ガソリン価格上昇の影響もあり、物価上昇圧力が高まる可能性が高い。
物 価実質個人消費
（注） 2025年10月のCPIは欠損値
（出所）米労働省、商務省
-1
0
1
2
3
4
21 22 23 24 25 26
（前月比、％）
（年、月次）
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26

CPI総合
CPIコア
個人消費支出物価指数コア
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）

### Page 5

4 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
住宅：着工は減少、価格は上昇
（出所）米商務省 （出所）S&P Global
 5月の住宅着工件数は年率118万戸と、コロナ禍以来6年ぶりの水準に減少した。住宅価格やローン金利がいずれも
高止まりしているほか資材価格の上昇もあり、住宅着工はしばらく低水準で一進一退の推移が続く公算が大きい。
 4月の住宅価格指数は前年比0.8%上昇した。上昇は35カ月連続となり上昇率も小幅加速した。米国では住宅の供給
不足が根強く、住宅価格は今後も上昇が続く見込みである。
S&Pコアロジック・ケース・シラー住宅価格指数住宅着工件数
0
50
100
150
200
02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
（年率、万戸）
（年、月次）
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
00 05 10 15 20 25
（前年比、％）
（年、月次）

### Page 6

5 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
株式市場～信用買いとレバレッジ型ETFが急増
 米株式市場はAIブームを背景に活況を呈する。そうした中、一段の株高を前提に収益を拡大させるため、信用買いにと
もなう債務残高や、対象とする株式の日々の値動きに2～3倍で連動するハイリスクなレバレッジ型上場投資信託の資
産残高が急増している。
 これらは、現下の株高がバブルであることを必ずしも示唆するものではない。しかし、かりに株安局面が到来すると、株
価下落にともなう損失が拡大し、逆資産効果により実体経済に与える影響も増幅させることに注意が必要であろう。
レバレッジ型株式ETFの資産残高信用買いにともなう債務残高
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
（兆ドル）
（出所）米金融取引業規制機構 （年、月次）
0
200
400
600
800
1000

1200
1400
1600
1800
22 23 24 25 26
（兆ドル）
（注）2026年第２四半期は6月26日までの値
（出所）WSJ、原データはファクトセット
（年、四半期）

### Page 7

6 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
FOMC委員の経済金融見通し（18人の委員による予測の中央値）
 FRBは6月16、17日に開催した連邦公開市場委員会（FOMC）で、政策金利であるFF金利の誘導目標を3.5～3.75%
に据え置いた。 ウォーシュ新議長は会見で、物価安定を重視する姿勢を強調した。
 FOMC委員の経済金融見通しは、景気の底堅さを踏まえ、今年の成長率予測と、26～28年の物価見通しを上方修正
した。そのうえで金融政策については今年1回の利上げが想定されている。
 米金利先物からFOMC会合ごとの政策金利を予想するCMEの「フェドウオッチ」によると、米国、イスラエルのイラン攻
撃前は年内2回程度の利下げが織り込まれていたが、油価上昇によりインフレ懸念が強まったこともあり、直近では年
内1回程度の利上げが織り込まれている。実際の金利変更の有無やその時期が今後の焦点となる。
金融政策：金利据え置き
（％）
2026 2027 2028 長期見通し

GDP成長率（実質） 2.2 (2.4) 2.3 (2.3) 2.2 (2.1) 2.0 (2.0)
失業率 4.3 (4.4) 4.3 (4.3) 4.2 (4.2) 4.2 (4.2)
個人消費支出価格指数 3.6 (2.7) 2.3 (2.2) 2.0 (2.0) 2.0 (2.0)
個人消費支出価格指数コア 3.3 (2.7) 2.5 (2.2) 2.1 (2.0) -
政策金利 3.8 (3.4) 3.6 (3.1) 3.4 (3.1) 3.1 (3.1)
（注）　カッコ内は前回3月時点の予測値
（出所）FRB

### Page 9

〒105-8501
東京都港区虎ノ門5-11-2 オランダヒルズ森タワー

---
## Document 646: 罕见！以色列紧急指令：禁止美军加油机在最大机场降落

Source PDF: all report pdf/罕见！以色列紧急指令：禁止美军加油机在最大机场降落.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-07-14
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

据 CCTV 国际时讯，因美⽅突然冻结撤机计划，以⾊列机场管理局 7 ⽉ 14 ⽇紧急禁⽌美军加
油机在本 - 古⾥安机场降落。此令由以交通部⻓办公室下达。⽬前以境内美军加油机达 34
架，远超美⽅承诺的 20 架上限。以⽅警告，若不撤离，机场⺠航将受严重挤压，约 5 万张机
票⾯临取消⻛险。
摘要：
据 CCTV 国际时讯，以⾊列媒体报道，以⾊列机场管理局今天（ 7 ⽉ 14 ⽇）向空中交通管制部⻔
发出紧急临时指令，禁⽌美军加油机在以⾊列最⼤机场本 - 古⾥安国际机场降落。
报道称，此举起因于美⽅⽇前突然冻结了从该机场撤出加油机的计划。以⾊列机场管理局警告
称，如果美军不推进撤离⾏动，本 - 古⾥安机场的⺠航运⼒将受严重挤压，导致 7 ⽉份约 5 万张⺠
航机票⾯临被强制取消的⻛险。
据报道，这⼀罕⻅的限制令据信由以⾊列交通部⻓雷格夫的办公室直接下达。
消息称，⾃ 2 ⽉ 28 ⽇美国和以⾊列对伊朗发动军事打击以来，美国约有 75 架空中加油机和运输机
⻓期停放在本 - 古⾥安国际机场。这些军机原为美国在地区加强军事部署的⼀部分。

⽬前部署在以⾊列境内的美军加油机达 34 架，其中 4 架为近期地区局势升级后新调⼊。美⽅此前
曾向以⽅承诺，将把在本 - 古⾥安机场的加油机数量削减并维持在 20 架以内。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
据新华社，美军 13 ⽇宣布，对伊朗发动 “ 连续第三晚 ” 的打击⾏动，并将于美国东部时间 14 ⽇恢复
对伊朗的海上封锁。伊朗⽅⾯则表⽰霍尔⽊兹海峡近期局势升级的直接责任在美国，并对位于
中东地区的美军基地实施报复性打击。
据美国《纽约时报》 13 ⽇报道，美国总统特朗普已正式通知国会，伊朗战事重新爆发。
美军中央司令部 13 ⽇说，美国东部时间当天 16 时 45 分，美军开始对伊朗发动 “ 连续第三晚 ” 的打
击⾏动，在历时 5 ⼩时的⾏动中，美军打击了位于伊朗布什尔、恰巴哈尔港、阿巴斯港等地的多
处军事⽬标，美军使⽤精确制导炸弹打击了伊朗的海岸防御系统、导弹和⽆⼈机基地以及海上
军事设施。
美军中央司令部 13 ⽇在社交媒体发⽂称，根据特朗普的指⽰，美军将于美国东部时间 14 ⽇ 16 时

（北京时间 15 ⽇ 4 时）开始恢复对伊朗的海上封锁⾏动。美国主导的联合海上信息中⼼ 13 ⽇也表
⽰，美军中央司令部将于上述时间开始执⾏针对所有伊朗港⼝和伊朗全部沿海区域的海上封
锁，封锁措施不区分船舶悬挂的船旗。
特朗普 13 ⽇在社交媒体上证实，美国将恢复对伊朗的海上封锁，并将对所有经由霍尔⽊兹海峡
运输的货物收取 20% 的费⽤。
本⽂来源：每⽇经济新闻

### Page 3

128 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
DAWN6 ⼩时前中国北京
0  回复
看来以⾊列内部也并⾮铁板⼀块

---
## Document 649: 美共和党参议员、外交政策鹰派人物格雷厄姆因病猝死，特朗普提议其胞妹填补席位空缺

Source PDF: all report pdf/美共和党参议员、外交政策鹰派人物格雷厄姆因病猝死，特朗普提议其胞妹填补席位空缺.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-07-13
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

---
## Document 722: 韩国央行驳斥半导体见顶论：AI驱动需求持续超越供给，上行周期延伸至2026年

Source PDF: all report pdf/韩国央行驳斥半导体见顶论：AI驱动需求持续超越供给，上行周期延伸至2026年.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-07-14
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

AI 基础设施投资浪潮之下，韩国央⾏罕⻅强势发声：当前半导体上⾏周期不仅完好，更已
超越历史均值 40 个⽉，且强度远超以往。供给瓶颈叠加 AI 驱动的竞争性投资，令本轮扩张
逻辑迥异于过去。
摘要：
韩股持续下跌之际，韩国央⾏明确否定半导体景⽓已触顶的市场担忧，并喊话全球半导体市场
扩张周期仍将持续相当⻓时间。
韩国央⾏ 7 ⽉ 13 ⽇在提交给国⺠⼒量党议员朴成勋的书⾯答复中表⽰，由于 AI 基础设施投资带动
需求⼤幅增⻓，⽽供给扩张速度明显滞后，当前半导体上⾏周期依然完好。这⼀判断较该⾏此
前 " 扩张周期延续⾄ 2026 年 " 的预测更进⼀步，暗⽰景⽓延伸的时间窗⼝有所拓宽。
摩根⼤通、⾼盛、摩根⼠丹利等主要投⾏的预测为上述判断提供了佐证。韩国央⾏援引上述机
构观点称，尽管 AI 技术普及速度、覆盖范围及盈利能⼒存在不确定性，但主要投⾏普遍预期全球
半导体市场⾄少将在明年之前保持强劲态势。
本轮周期已超历史均值，且动能更强
韩国央⾏指出，当前半导体扩张周期⾃ 2023 年 3 ⽉启动，⾄今已持续 40 个⽉，已超过 2000 年⾄

2020 年间五次扩张周期平均 29 个⽉的历史均值。
该⾏同时强调，本轮周期的强度亦明显优于历史⽔平。“ 当前半导体景⽓受全球数据中⼼等 AI 基
础设施投资拉动，呈现出远超以往扩张期的强劲势头， ” 韩国央⾏在书⾯答复中写道。
与以往周期相⽐，本轮扩张的驱动逻辑也存在本质差异。韩国央⾏认为，此次扩张由企业在 AI 将
从根本上重塑产业⽣态系统的预期下展开竞争性投资所主导，⽽⾮单纯的消费电⼦或传统 IT 需求
拉动。
供给瓶颈构成结构性⽀撑
在供给侧，韩国央⾏将供给扩张受限视为⽀撑景⽓持续的关键因素。
该⾏解释称，⾼性能产品技术难度⾼，量产需要相当⻓的时间；加之当前需求以⾼带宽内存
（ HBM ）等定制化产品为主导，供给扩张速度受到的制约⽐以往周期更为明显。
这⼀结构性特征意味着，即便需求端出现波动，供给端也难以在短期内形成过剩压⼒，从⽽为
价格和景⽓提供了⼀定的缓冲。
央⾏表态较此前明显升温
此次书⾯答复代表着韩国央⾏对半导体前景判断的进⼀步上调。去年 11 ⽉，时任调查局局⻓、
现任副总裁 Lee Ji-ho 在经济展望发布会上表⽰，半导体周期 " 可能延续⾄ 2026 年 " ，但对于能否

延伸⾄ 2027 年则持保留态度。
今年 1 ⽉，前任⾏⻓ Rhee Chang-yong 在新闻发布会上亦表达了审慎乐观的⽴场，称 " ⽆论 AI 产
业最终谁胜出，半导体都是必需品 " ，并预计相关⾏业 " ⾄少在未来⼀年内前景向好 " 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
312 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
3 条评论
此次书⾯答复将上述判断进⼀步延伸，措辞也更为明确，显⽰韩国央⾏对半导体景⽓的信⼼较
此前有所增强。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
MobileUser55201 ⼩时前中国江苏省
0  回复
下半年要暴雷了
⻅闻⽤⼾2 ⼩时前中国河南省
0  回复
继续忽悠
samsaw2 ⼩时前中国江苏省
1  回复
明显急了

---
## Document 729: 骨太方針2026のポイント（財政運営編） ～責任ある積極財政：評価すべき点と懸念が残る点～

Source PDF: all report pdf/骨太方針2026のポイント（財政運営編） ～責任ある積極財政：評価すべき点と懸念が残る点～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-07-03
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Economic Trends

2026 年7 月 3 日

1/7 
骨太方針 2026 のポイント（財政運営編） 
～責任ある積極財政：評価すべき点と懸念が残る点～ 
経済調査部 主席エコノミスト 星野 卓也 
（℡：050-5474-7497）

（要旨）

徐々にはっきりしてきた責任ある積極財政のフレームワーク 
前回の骨太総論編に続き、今回のレポートでは財政運営、財政目標の見直しに焦点を当てる。今
回の骨太方針の最重要ポイントだ。図表１では今年の骨太原案と昨年骨太方針との比較を通じて、
財政運営の枠組みの変化を示している。

○ 骨太方針2026 では、財政目標の中核を「国・地方のプライマリーバランス黒字化」から、 「総債
務残高対GDP 比の安定的な低下」 へ転換する。 歳出規模の考え方も、 従来の 「歳出の目安」 から、
債務残高GDP 比目標と整合する額を割り出す方式へと移行する。

○ 予算編成面では「補正予算依存からの脱却」が明記され、補正は真に緊要性の高いものに限定、
恒常的な施策は当初予算で措置する方針。当初予算には別枠管理の『 「強く豊かな日本」投資枠』
（財源はつなぎ国債、債務残高GDP 比目標の対象外）を新設する。社会保障関係費はキャップを
維持しつつ、租特・補助金の点検（日本版DOGE）等で歳出効率化も継続する。

○ 今回の骨太は①「予算編成改革の妥当性」と②「拡張財政懸念の払拭度」の2 軸に分けて評価す
べきと考える。①については妥当な点が多く、とりわけ補正依存の是正は政策・財政状況の予見
可能性を高める点で重要。利払の影響を内包する債務残高GDP 比を主目標に据えること、将来の
利払上昇を見据えて計画期間を延長したこと、物価上昇の反映強化なども適切である。

○ 一方、②では予算編成にかけて見極めが必要な点が2 つある。第一に「強く豊かな日本」投資枠
とつなぎ国債の規模・償還の道筋が不透明な点、第二に歳出余力を規定する経済前提である。特
に以前よりも経済前提が財政運営により多大な影響を及ぼす形となるため、 過度に楽観視せず量
の面でのバランス感覚を持つことが、 「責任ある積極財政」を安定したものにすると考える。

### Page 2

2/7
図表１．骨太 2026・2025 における財政目標、財政運営関連事項の対比
論点
2026
年版原案
2025
年版
財政目標
国・地方の総債務残高対
GDP
比の安定的な低
下
を中核
2025
・
26
年度を通じて可能な限り早期の国・
地方を合わせた
PB
黒字化
目標の性格
政府債務と経済規模の関係を見るストック目
標
単年度の基礎的財政収支を重視するフロー目
標
歳出規模
・経済・物価動向等の的確な反映をさらに進め
る
・
物価・賃金、名目経済規模、歳入見通し、政
策効果、財政目標との整合性を踏まえる
・社会保障関係費はキャップを残す：
高齢化に
よる増加分に相当する伸びに経済・物価動向
等を踏まえた対応に相当する増加分を加算
・
租税特別措置や補助金等の点検・見直しを進
め、施策の優先順位を洗い直し、
大胆に重点
化する
（日本版
DOGE
）
・
経済・物価動向等を踏まえ
予算編成において
適切に反映
・
「
歳出の目安
」
で当初予算
の社会保障関係費、
非社会保障関係費に

キャップ
（
高齢化による
増加分に相当する伸びに経済・物価動向等を
踏まえた対応に相当する増加分を加算
）
PB
の位置付け
債務残高対
GDP
比の安定的低下に向けて確認
する指標。複数年で管理
。
黒字化すべき目標。黒字化後は一定水準の黒
字を確保
その他の目標数値
純利払い費、財政収支、利払い費、公債依存度、
国債発行額などを併せて検証
ＰＢの一定の黒字幅を確保しつつ債務残高対
ＧＤＰ比を安定的に引き下げ
予算編成との接続
・
「強く豊かな日本」投資枠
の創設
→重要分野を
特快で
別枠
管理。
財源はつなぎ
国債
・
補正予算依存からの脱却
→補正は
緊要性の高いものに限定、恒常的施
策は当初予算で措置
・
複数年度予算措置、基金の見直し
→成果管理の徹底、ガバナンス強化しつつ、
「予算措置は原則３年以内」とする現行ルー
ルの不適用を含めて基金ルールを見直し
・
「
歳出の目安
」に基づく歳出改革努力
・
補正予算（歳出構造）の平時化を図る
→定量基準はなく補正予算に実質制限はなし

・基金への新たな予算措置は
3
年程度（行政
改革推進会議）
財政
計画
の
期間
2040
年度までを対象とする
「
中長期経済財政
計画
」
2030
年度までの「
経済・財政新生計画
」
（出所）内閣府より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が作成。

### Page 3

3/7 
ポイントを挙げていく。 まず、財政目標の中核を「国・地方の基礎的財政収支黒字化」 から 「国・
地方の総債務残高対GDP 比の安定的な低下」へ移す点だ。長年、財政目標の軸として据えられてき
た国・地方の基礎的財政収支（プライマリーバランス、PB）を黒字化するフロー目標から、政府債
務と経済規模の関係をみるストック目標へと転換する。 これに伴い、PB は“確認する指標” とされ
「一時的な悪化は許容し得るもの」とされた。従来は「PB 黒字化、そのうえで債務残高 GDP 比低
下」を目標としており、PB が上位であった。「債務残高GDP 比」が格上げされる形となる。 
これに伴い、実際の予算編成における歳出規模の考え方も変わる。従来は「歳出の目安」（歳出の
伸びを高齢化分の伸びにとどめる等） を通じて、 当初予算は高齢化による増分以外は実質的には増
やさないことが基準とされてきた。 今回骨太では、 “歳出規模の総額は物価・賃金、 名目経済規模、
歳入見通し、 政策効果、 財政目標との整合性を踏まえる” 、 とされている。 財政目標である 「債務残
高GDP 比の低下」 に整合する歳出額をモデル試算等で割り出したうえで歳出総額の規模を決定する
方向だ。 既に、6/24 の経済財政諮問会議・日本成長戦略会議合同会議において内閣府の経済財政モ
デルを用いた試算が示されており、追加的な財政支出 10 兆円とともに経済成長率の向上が実現す
れば、債務残高GDP 比が低下する姿が描かれている。この点は骨太にも記載された。 
当初予算のみをみると拡張的な変更になるのだが、骨太では「補正予算依存からの脱却」も明記
されている。 “補正予算は真に緊要性の高いものに限定し、恒常的な施策については当初予算で措
置する” とされた。 従来は当初予算については歳出の目安を通じて抑制的な運営がなされてきた一
方で、補正予算については定量的な基準はなかった。 
また、当初予算には 『 「強く豊かな日本」 投資枠』 が、先の追加財政支出分とは別途設けられる。
これは特別会計において別枠管理するものとされ、 財源は償還財源の裏付けを持った 「つなぎ国債」
とする。 この投資枠については先の財政目標である債務残高GDP 比からは除くものとされた。 現在
もGX 経済移行債を通じた投資などにおいて同様の扱いがなされている。 
 また、 社会保障関係費については、 “給付と負担の改革努力を継続しつつ、 高齢化による増加分に
相当する伸びに経済・物価動向等を踏まえた対応に相当する増加分を加算する。 また、2027 年度の
社会保障負担率が 2025 年度と比較して上昇しないよう取り組む”とされた。社会保障関係費につ
いては従来の「歳出の目安」と同様のキャップを設け、物価高反映は進めつつもそれ以外の効率化
は継続する方針だ。また、租特や補助金等の点検・見直しの取組 （日本版DOGE）についても記載さ
れており、歳出抑制や効率化が図られることとなる。

2027 年度予算のイメージ 
図表２では、年末にかけて編成される 2027 年度予算枠のイメージを描いている。従来型の予算
編成では年末に当年度の補正予算と次年度の当初予算が編成される 「15 カ月予算」 の形式がとられ
てきた。今回の骨太方針に則ると、①「補正予算は限定」②「物価上昇反映」③「債務残高GDP 比
目標の範囲での追加歳出」④「新たな投資枠」⑤「社保効率化＆日本版DOGE」がキーである。①、
⑤で予算規模の縮小を図る一方、②～④は歳出増加の要因だ。一般会計における 27 年度当初予算
は 26 年度当初予算対比では当然増加することになろう。ただ、補正は絞られる見込みである点か

### Page 4

4/7 
ら「25 年度補正＋26 年度当初」を超えるかは微妙であり、一般会計ベースでは減少もあり得る。
昨年度補正が18.3 兆円組まれているのに対して、 先の政府の試算で示された追加歳出規模は10 兆
円である （あくまで例示として示された数字ではある点には留意を要する） 。 新しく創設される 『 「強
く豊かな日本」 投資枠』 の規模感は示されておらず、ここがどの程度になるかも重要になるだろう。
なお、 新たな投資枠は特別会計管理とされているので、 一般会計予算の歳出増分としては顕れない
形となる可能性が高そうだ。

図表 2．2026 年度と2027 年度予算のイメージ

（注）このほかイラン情勢悪化を受けて 2026 年度補正予算が今年度に編成されている。本図表は 2025 年度補正予算と
2026 年度当初予算が実質的に一体的に編成されていたところをどう組み替えるかを示す目的のため、加えていない。 
（出所）内閣府などから第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が作成。

予算編成の見直し：特に補正依存の見直しは評価したい 
今回の骨太方針は高市首相の「責任ある積極財政」の実像が示される点で注目が集まっていた。
筆者はまず今回の骨太について①「予算編成改革の妥当性」と②「拡張財政懸念の払拭度」の２軸
は分けて評価すべきだと考えている。 まず前者の予算編成改革については、 多くが妥当なものだと
考えている。 
特に補正予算依存の見直しは重要である。特にコロナ禍以降は大規模補正が常態化し、 恒常的な
支出も補正予算に計上される状態が続いた（図表３） 。重要施策が毎年規模や内容も変わる補正に
集中することで、 政策の予見可能性も低下していた。 必要な事業を当初から計上する予算配分の適
正化は、財政規律とは別の観点からも合理的な方針だ。また、そもそも財政法は補正予算の編成に
よる追加歳出を 「予算作成後に生じた事由に基づき特に緊要となつた経費の支出」 などに限定して
いる。この趣旨に沿ったものでもあろう。 
補正→当初による政策の予見可能性の向上は官の投資を民の投資の呼び水とすることを企図し
たものだが、同時に「財政状況の予見可能性」が高まることも重要である。従来は当初予算を絞り
毎年経済対策等の形で補正予算を組む編成となっていたわけだが、 この状態では将来の補正予算が
新たな投資枠（つなぎ国債） ？
2025年度の補正予算 債務残高GDP比が上昇しない範囲の歳出など
18.3兆円 10兆円程度？
物価上昇を反映
当初予算 従来の当初予算項目
122.3兆円
2026 2027
社保効率化、日本版DOGE

### Page 5

5/7 
どの程度組まれるかの見立てが立てられない。 政府の中長期試算も勝手に補正予算編成を織り込む
わけにはいかないので、 当初予算のみを前提とした試算を公開してきたが、 毎年補正予算編成のた
びに大きく数字が改定されるという状態になっていた。 補正の当初化によって将来の財政状況の見
通しが立てやすくなることも重要なメリットだろう。

図表 3．当初・補正・決算：一般会計における歳出総額

（出所）財務省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が作成。

また、債務残高 GDP 比への目標変更も拡張財政への布石であるとして批判の対象となりやすい。
しかし、それはこれまでの経済環境が「成長＞＞金利」のボーナス期にあったためだ。金利上昇が
進む昨今の状況では、 債務残高対GDP 比を引き下げるために利払費の増加にも目配りが必要になる。
むしろ、利払費を除いたプライマリーバランスを主目標とすることが「金利のある世界」では適当
ではないとの議論も可能である。 金利上昇の影響が大きくなる財政指標の採用が、 財政政策に対す
るガバナンス機能を果たすことも見込まれる。 
今回 2040 年度まで財政計画の期間を延ばした点も妥当な措置。債務が金利上昇後の国債に借り
換えられていく過程で利払費は増えていくことになるが、 見通し期間を短くとると金利上昇の影響
を十分に織り込めず、 ボーナス期のみの評価となってしまう。 この点に配慮した期間の延長だと考
えられる。 
物価上昇の反映強化もインフレ下では必要な措置である。 昨年の骨太でも物価反映は明示された
が、不足している部分もまだ多い。補正依存と物価反映の不十分さは、当初予算に計上される歳出
の実質的な減少、 既存事業と新規事業に対する歳出のアンバランスにもつながってきた。 骨太内で
は「官公需における適切な価格転嫁を徹底するとともに、医療・介護・保育・福祉等の公定価格に
ついて、現場の人材確保、経営の安定、サービスの質の確保に必要な対応を進める。あわせて、予
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
180
200
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
補正
 当初
 決算
（兆円）

### Page 6

6/7 
算・税制における各種基準額や閾値について、物価・賃金上昇や経済社会の変化を踏まえ、必要な
点検・見直しを進める。」 とされた。 公的分野の価格転嫁、 公的価格のほか、 予算・税制における各
種基準額や閾値の見直しも記載されている。 インフレ下で膨らんでいる所得課税のブラケット・ク
リープへの対応についても今後議論が進む可能性があろう（ブラケット・クリープについては「ブ
ラケット・クリープによる「隠れ増税」の試算～2019→2025 年のインフレで1.9 兆円/年程度に膨
らむ～（2026 年5 月 8 日） 」 。もご参照ください。 ）

拡張財政になるのか？：つなぎ国債のスキーム、経済前提の楽観化の見極めが必要に 
このように、一連の予算編成改革は財政政策の質向上に資する部分が多いと考えている。一方、
今回骨太のもう一つの論点は、市場の財政拡張懸念を払拭できるかどうかであった。この点ではま
だ蓋を開けてみないとわからない部分が少なくとも２点ある。 
第一に、新しく創設される『 「強く豊かな日本」投資枠』の規模が不確かな点である。 償還財源の
裏付けのある「つなぎ国債」を利用した措置になることは示されたものの、その発行規模や償還の
道筋はまだわからない。償還財源を設ける形になるとはいってもその規模や歳出先行の度合が大き
くなるほど債券需給への影響は大きくなりうる。 
第二に経済前提だ。 これがより重要である。先にみたように、 今回の財政目標の見直しを通じて、
「政府債務残高のGDP 比が低下する範囲」 での歳出増を許容するものとなる。 この財政余力の数字
は将来の経済や金利がどうなると想定するかに左右される。高い成長と低い金利を見込めば財政余
力は広がる点で、長期の経済見通しが足元の財政政策にも多大な影響を及ぼす。政府の財政試算の
役割が従来よりも格段に増すことになる。 
財政試算の重要性は財政目標がPB から債務残高GDP 比に置き換わることを通じても増している。
筆者は過去に 政府の中長期試算 の予測と実績を比較したうえである種の 癖がある 点を指摘した
（「政府の財政試算は当たっているのか？～過去試算と実績値を比較検証～（2019 年 2 月） 」 。分析
時期は古いが癖自体は大きくは変わっていないと考えている）。詳細は割愛するが、収支系の指標
の実績は政府の経済楽観シナリオの予測に近く（税収弾性値が慎重で、 歳出増加の前提が高いため） 、
GDP の実績や債務残高GDP 比は政府の慎重シナリオに近くなるとするものである。政府中長期試算
の経済前提はしばしば楽観的すぎると批判されるが、経済前提は楽観的でも“経済改善が PB 改善
につながる影響度”が慎重めなので、 「経済前提 （GDP など） は楽観的でもプライマリーバランスの
見通しは特段楽観的ではなかった」というのが素直に数字を読んだ際の評価である。結果として、
楽観シナリオにおける政府の PB 見通しはある程度妥当性のあるものとなっていた。しかし、債務
残高 GDP 比は名目GDP の動向がその数字の方向性を大きく左右する。楽観シナリオをメインに据え
ることで実態との乖離が進む可能性は高くなる。 
改めて、先の政府会議で示された追加歳出規模 10 兆円を示す根拠として示された資料を見てみ
ると、 債務残高GDP 比の安定的低下を示す場合の経済前提である成長戦略実現ケース①の実質成長
率（潜在成長率）は 1％台後半、 成長戦略実現ケース②は1％台半ばで推移する想定となっている。
現状の潜在成長率に近い現状投影ケースでは 0％台前半である。2 つの成長戦略実現ケースは相当

### Page 7

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
7/7 
の成長加速を織り込んでいる、との評価にならざるを得ない。成長加速を見込むにしても、成長戦
略実現ケース②と現状投影ケースの間ぐらいが程よさそうである。

以上、今回の骨太方針の財政運営関連の箇所についてみてきた。今回の骨太方針は、新たな財政
運営のフレームワークとして評価すべきポイントが多数ある。これまで、世界潮流の変化のもと産
業政策の強化が求められる中、既存の財政運営方法の中で対処しようとした結果、 補正依存という
歪みが生まれていた。それを改め、関連施策を当初予算に計上し、その下での財政の姿を正面から
示そうとしている点は財政運営の予見可能性を高めるものだ。債務残高GDP 比の採用も利払費の影
響を含む指標を主な基準に据える点で、金利上昇の実態に沿った対応である。 
一方で、 財政拡張に対する市場の懸念を拭うには、経済前提をはじめ不透明な部分がまだ残る内
容でもあった。今後の予算編成過程でその懸念を晴らしていくことが政府には求められるだろう。
市場の信認低下→金利上昇が進むことは、債務残高GDP 比を基準にした「財政余力」を損なうこと
にもなる。経済前提を極端に楽観的なものにせず、量の面でのバランス感覚を持つことが、責任あ
る積極財政をより安定したものにすることにつながると考える。

以上
