# Financial Report Source 03

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 018: 20260921_投資週報_Fed升息重塑利率格局，科技輪動利多仍在

Source PDF: all report pdf/20260921_投資週報_Fed升息重塑利率格局，科技輪動利多仍在.pdf
Report source: Yuanta (投資週報)
Date: 2026-09-21
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險，自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧，本行不負任何法律責任。本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有，非經本行同
意，不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散布。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。
金融市場投資週報                 2026 年 9 月 21 日
上週重點訊息
◼ Fed 三年來首次升息，點陣圖顯示年底前再升一碼：Fed 於 9/16 一致決議升息 1 碼，將聯
邦基金利率目標區間提高至 3.75%～4.00%，為 2023 年 7 月以來首次升息。最新利率預測
中，18 名官員有 16 人預期年底前至少仍需再升息 1 碼。最新經濟預測顯示，Fed 上修今明
兩年實質 GDP 成長率並下修失業率預估值，但也預期通膨壓力將比原先估計更為頑強。主席
Warsh 並指出美國經濟、就業、內需與資本投資仍具韌性，金融環境難稱緊縮。

◼ AI 安全疑慮引發半導體股急跌，但科技產業內部仍呈現明顯分化： OpenAI、Anthropic 等
AI 業者高層呼籲放慢 AI 發展速度、強化安全防護，引發市場重新評估 AI 投資成長速度與資
本支出前景，拖累費城半導體指數 9/14 重挫約 5.9%，但軟體股反而上漲。現階段尚不足以
證明 AI 資本支出循環已反轉，資金亦未全面撤離科技產業，而是從估值較高、籌碼較擁擠的
AI 硬體轉向其他科技次產業。
◼ 日本央行決議升息 1 碼，符合市場預期：日本央行 9/18 以 7 比 2 決議將無擔保隔夜拆款利
率由 1.0%調升至 1.25%。此為該行 2024 年來第 6 次升息，符合市場預期，故升息後對風險
資產衝擊有限。BOJ 明言將「繼續升息並調整寬鬆程度」 ，並將審視調整的時點與步調。
市場展望與操作策略
◼ 科技股中期趨勢未見反轉，但短線波動料加劇：儘管 FOMC 9 月升息，點陣圖暗示今年可能
再升一碼，但其對經濟成長率與失業率預期仍朝正向發展，同時股市也止跌上揚，顯示投資

人認為企業獲利成長動能足以抵消利率上揚的負面影響，基本面較佳的科技股仍具資金承
接，惟宜留意股市短線仍可能因地緣政治與經濟數據表現而出現波動。
◼ 中天期美債及投資級債風險報酬相對均衡：Fed 重啟升息且點陣圖暗示年底前或再升息，短天
期公債殖利率直接受到政策利率上修影響 ； 天期過長的債券則持續面臨財政赤字 、 發債供給及
期限溢價上升壓力，利率敏感度偏高。中天期(5~10 年期)美國公債既可取得目前相對較高收
益，亦具適度存續期間，在未來通膨降溫時較有機會受惠於殖利率回落，風險報酬較為均衡。
投資級債亦具較高收益與信用防禦特性，有助平衡投資組合波動。

---
## Document 108: 30年期美债收益率创2002年新高，抛售潮在季节性压力下恐延续

Source PDF: all report pdf/30年期美债收益率创2002年新高，抛售潮在季节性压力下恐延续.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

周⼆美国 30 年期国债收益率升⾄ 5.62% ，创 2002 年以来新⾼， 10 年期收益率⼀度触及
5.29% 。油价⾼企加剧通胀预期、强劲经济数据⽀撑加息预期、财政可持续性忧虑及企业
债供应激增，共同驱动本轮抛售。历史季节性规律显⽰， 9 ⽉、 10 ⽉为美债表现最弱⽉份，
后续波动⻛险仍⾼。
摘要：
美国国债市场抛售浪潮再度升级， 30 年期美国国债收益率升⾄逾⼆⼗四年来最⾼⽔平。
9 ⽉ 29 ⽇， 30 年期美债收益率盘中⼀度攀升⾄ 5.62% ，创 2002 年 6 ⽉以来新⾼，连续第六个交易
⽇录得上涨。
10 年期收益率同步⾛⾼，盘中最⾼触及 5.29% ，为 2007 年以来最⾼⽔平。两年期收益率约为
4.9% ，是主要期限中最后⼀个仍低于 5% 的品种。彭博指标显⽰，美国国债今年以来已累计下跌
2.6% 。
油价飙升加剧通胀压⼒、美国经济数据强劲⽀撑加息预期，以及市场对联邦政府财政可持续性
的忧虑，共同驱动这轮抛售持续扩散。
花旗策略师将当前市场描述为⼀场 " 轻微的买家罢⼯ " ，⽽ Yardeni Research 则指出，⽇元融资套

利交易平仓同样在推波助澜。彭博指标显⽰，美国国债今年以来已累计下跌 2.6% 。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

多重压⼒交织，抛售持续深化
此轮美债抛售的核⼼驱动⼒来⾃通胀预期的重新升温。
全球油价基准布伦特原油 9 ⽉⼤部分时间保持在每桶 100 美元以上，⾼企的能源成本正向全球经
济传导，促使投资者押注美联储等主要央⾏将进⼀步加息。
与此同时，企业债供应的激增也在拖累⻓端收益率。
据彭博报道，派拉蒙天舞启动了市场期待已久的投资级债券发⾏，此次发⾏是其收购华纳兄弟
探索共计 520 亿美元联合债务融资计划的最⼤组成部分，拟从债券市场融资约 320 亿美元。
SMBC 利率策略师 Monty Gandhi 表⽰：
对财政前景的担忧同样压制市场情绪。美国国债总规模上⽉突破 40 万亿美元，政府借贷仍以历
史性的速度扩张。
Man Group ⾸席市场策略师 Kristina Hooper 认为，⻓端收益率上⾏反映了市场对财政可持续
性 " ⽇益上升的担忧 " ，以及油价⾼企所引发的通胀压⼒。
她还指出，鉴于美国的财政轨迹以及华盛顿外交政策的 " 不可预测性 " ，美债对投资者尤其是海外
买家的吸引⼒将有所下降。

Yardeni Research 表⽰，⽇元融资套利交易平仓也在助推这轮抛售。Yardeni Research 总裁
Edward Yardeni 认为，收益率上升 " 可能是债券义警的报复 " 。
季节性因素雪上加霜
历史规律亦对当前市场构成不利。
彭博汇总数据显⽰，过去⼗年，美国国债 9 ⽉回报率中值为下跌 0.9% ， 10 ⽉则下跌 0.7% ，是全
年表现最弱的两个⽉份。
道明证券策略师 Prashant Newnaha 表⽰：
这是有记录以来第五⼤投资级交易，⻓端收益率的部分上⾏可能与此相关。

### Page 3

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
90 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
道富投资管理⾼级固定收益策略师 Masahiko Loo 则指出，美债通常在 10 ⽉⾯临 " 季节性考验 " ，
原因在于债券供应增加叠加投资者从夏季淡季回归。
他表⽰，进⼊感恩节前，随着美债供应重新放量、信⽤债发⾏规模庞⼤，以及 AI 资本⽀出需求持
续旺盛。 Masahiko Loo 强调：
⻛险资产相对抗压，部分投资者寻机布局
尽管债市持续承压，股市和信⽤债等⻛险资产⽬前表现出较强韧性。
标普 500 指数周⼆收跌 0.2% ，距 8 ⽉历史⾼点不⾜ 2% ；纳斯达克 100 指数则上涨 0.2% 。 Nuveen
宏观信⽤主管 Laura Cooper 指出：
不过， Cooper 对⻓端美债仍持谨慎态度。她表⽰虽已 " 削减 " 超低配头⼨，但 " 尚未开始逢低买

⼊ " ，理由是 " 近期通胀⻛险仍偏向上⾏，能源价格维持⾼位 " 。
也有少数市场参与者选择逆势布局。华尔街资深⼈⼠ Jim Bianco 六年来⾸次转为看多美债，⻓期
债券投资者 Chris Iggo 表⽰，在经历四年艰难时期后，债券有望迎来反弹。
RBC BlueBay 资管公司的⾸席投资官 Mark Dowding 则认为，全球债市本轮抛售已有过度之嫌。
9 ⽉利率市场的表现堪称灾难，⽽这种痛苦交易可能还会持续。只要中东局势没有解决，固定收
益市场就存在继续 ' 去⻛险 ' 的可能，⽽且这种⾛势或将蔓延⾄股市。
资本争夺依然激烈，美债进⼀步波动的⻛险仍然较⾼。
由 AI 投资部分驱动的强劲增⻓背景，使⻛险资产保持稳定。
限免
请发表您的评论

### Page 4

图⽚
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 240: DeepSeek Harness装上桌面：插件免敲命令、任务可定时，六成用户已在用第三方插件

Source PDF: all report pdf/DeepSeek Harness装上桌面：插件免敲命令、任务可定时，六成用户已在用第三方插件.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-30
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

DeepSeek Harness v0.2 预览版正式发布，提供 macOS 与 Windows 双端安装包，⽆需配
置开发环境即可上⼿。新版不仅⽀持⽂件处理、代码修改、定时⾃动化任务，还新增可视
化插件管理⻚⾯，甚⾄允许⽤⼾⽤⾃然语⾔ “ 造插件 ” 。值得关注的是，已有约 60% ⽤⼾主动
使⽤第三⽅插件。
摘要：
智东西 9 ⽉ 30 ⽇报道，昨⽇，DeepSeek 正式推出 DeepSeek Harness v0.2 预览版，并提供开箱
即⽤的 macOS 和 Windows桌⾯端安装包。
▲DeepSeek Harness v0.2 预览版界⾯
⽤⼾前往 DeepSeek Harness 官⽹下载安装后，按照引导即可直接使⽤，⽆需再⾃⾏配置开发环
境。
这是 DeepSeek Harness ⾃ 8 ⽉ 13 ⽇晚推出开发者预览版 v0.1 并同步开源后的⼜⼀次重要更新。
此次 v0.2 进⼀步补⻬了桌⾯端产品体验，不仅预置⽇常办公和开发中的常⽤功能，还新增插件安
装与管理⻚⾯、⾃动化任务等能⼒。

DeepSeek 同时披露，按照官⽅模型 API ⽤⼾⼝径统计，⽬前约 60%的 DeepSeek Harness ⽤⼾
使⽤了第三⽅插件。
符合条件的 DeepSeek ⽤⼾使⽤账号登录桌⾯端后，还可限时领取6 元体验赠⾦。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

根据典型 Agent 任务的实际⽤量⽐例及 DeepSeek V4.1 Flash ⾮⾼峰时段价格估算， 6 元额度约
可覆盖共计 1.2 亿缓存命中输⼊ token 、 148 万缓存未命中输⼊ token 及 52 万输出 token ，实际可⽤
量随任务和使⽤时段⽽变化。
Mac 、 Windows 直接安装  ⽂件和代码都能在侧栏预览
相⽐此前⾯向开发者的预览版本，此次更新⼀个明显变化是进⼀步降低使⽤⻔槛。 DeepSeek
Harness v0.2 ⽬前已经提供 macOS 和 Windows 安装包。⽤⼾安装完成后，即可在桌⾯端直接使
⽤其 Agent 能⼒。
新版重点调整了⽂件展⽰、内容预览和代码变更展⽰体验，同时完善了⾃动化任务的设置与管
理，并提供多种 Agent ⼯作过程展⽰⽅式。
具体来看，⽤⼾可以直接向 DeepSeek Harness 提供⽂档、表格或 PDF ⽂件，让其进⾏资料整
理、数据分析、图表⽣成以及演⽰⽂稿制作，也可以让它修改项⽬和运⾏代码，辅助完成开发

任务。
任务执⾏过程中，⽣成的⽂件以及每轮代码修改会集中出现在对话内。⽤⼾可以直接在侧栏预
览⽂件、查看代码以及修改前后的差异，也可以继续通过对话要求 Agent 修改，或者调⽤本地应
⽤进⼀步编辑⽂件。

### Page 3

换句话说， DeepSeek Harness 此次正在把此前偏 Coding Agent 的使⽤⽅式，继续向⽂件处理、
办公和通⽤桌⾯任务延伸。
不⽤敲命令装插件  还能定时让 Agent ⾃⼰⼲活
插件是此次 v0.2 更新的另⼀项重点。 DeepSeek Harness 延续了 “ ⼀切皆插件 ” 的设计理念，从单
个⼯具到完整交互界⾯，都可以通过插件⽅式接⼊。
新版新增了独⽴的插件管理⻚⾯。过去需要通过命令⾏处理的插件安装，现在可以直接在⻚⾯
中输⼊插件包名，也就是对应的 npm 包名完成安装。
在同⼀⻚⾯内，⽤⼾还可以停⽤、卸载插件，并查看插件介绍和来源。
此 外 ， 在 实 验 性 的 “ 创 造 模 式” 中 ， ⽤ ⼾ 甚 ⾄ 可 以 直 接 通 过 ⾃ 然 语 ⾔ 描 述 ⾃ ⼰ 的 需 求 ， 让
DeepSeek Harness ⾃⾏编写或者修改插件。

### Page 4

⽣成后的插件可以即时⽣效、持续保存，并进⼊插件管理⻚⾯统⼀管理。
新版还内置了可按需开启的⾃动化任务插件。
开启这⼀功能后，⽤⼾可以把重复性⼯作设置为定时执⾏任务，并查看历史运⾏记录、调整执
⾏频率或者修改任务指令。
下⼀步瞄准⻓期记忆  浏览器操作和多⼈协作
DeepSeek 还⾸次较为集中地披露了 Harness 后续的产品路线。官⽅称，在使⽤ DeepSeek 官⽅
API 的⽤⼾中，按照⽇均活跃⽤⼾、⽇均会话数等指标统计， DeepSeek Harness 已经成为最受
DeepSeek ⽤⼾欢迎的 Coding Agent 产品。
接下来，团队计划继续改进沙箱功能与安全性，并完善智能体团队功能，同时加⼊个性化⻓期
记忆、浏览器及其他 GUI 软件⾃动化操作、远程与移动端使⽤、会话分享和多⼈协作等能⼒。

### Page 5

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
84 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
其中，插件⽣态依然是 DeepSeek Harness 后续建设重点。
据 DeepSeek 统计，按照官⽅模型 API ⽤⼾⼝径，⽬前约 60% 的 Harness ⽤⼾已经使⽤第三⽅插
件。 DeepSeek 团队后续计划建设官⽅插件市场，同时逐步稳定插件 API ，减少破坏性更新，并
降低开发者跨版本适配成本。
DeepSeek 还提到， Harness 将与后续 DeepSeek 模型共同迭代，包括针对新模型持续进⾏适
配，并在模型训练过程中优化模型在 Harness 中的实际表现。
结语：从 Coding Agent⾛向更⼤的⼯作⼊⼝
从 8 ⽉的 v0.1 开发者预览版，到此次可以直接下载安装的 v0.2 桌⾯端， DeepSeek Harness 的⻔

槛正在快速降低。
代码能⼒仍然是它的重要基础，但⽂件处理、插件管理、定时任务已经明显把使⽤范围推向更
⽇常的电脑⼯作。再加上官⽅预告的⻓期记忆、浏览器及 GUI ⾃动化、移动端和多⼈协作，
Harness 接下来要补的已经是⼀套更完整的通⽤ Agent 产品形态。
尤其值得关注的是插件。约 60% 的⽤⼾已经主动使⽤第三⽅插件，说明这个仍处预览阶段的产
品，其开放⽣态已经有了⼀定使⽤基础。
随着官⽅插件市场和插件 API 进⼀步完善，也让⼈更期待 DeepSeek Harness“ ⼀切皆插件 ” 的思
路，最终能把 Agent 的能⼒边界扩展到多远。
本⽂来源：智东西
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 328: The Currency Book (2026-09-29)

Source PDF: all report pdf/The Currency Book (2026-09-29).pdf
Report source: DB Research
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 98
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

The Currency Book

1 
Authors 
George Saravelos 
Global Head of FX Research

Charlie Hyams 
Strategist

Rohini Grover 
Strategist

Mallika Sachdeva 
Strategist

Shreyas Gopal 
Strategist

Oliver Harvey 
Macro Strategist

September 29, 2026 
Introduction 
With trillions of dollars, euros and yen changing hands every day, foreign 
exchange is indisputably the largest and most liquid financial market in the 
world. Yet despite its size, the currency market is also one of the least 
understood. Unlike bonds or equities, there is no widely accepted framework for 
explaining currency moves, which reflect a complex interplay of 
macroeconomics, capital flows, market structure, investor behaviour and 
(geo)politics. 
Over the past two decades, advances in technology and market infrastructure 
have transformed how currencies are traded, placing FX at the forefront of 
broader changes in global finance. Yet because currencies sit at the intersection 
of national economies, the FX market is also fundamentally connected to 
international trade and cross-border capital flows. It is therefore increasingly 
exposed to the forces reshaping the global economic landscape—from 
geopolitical fragmentation and changing trade relationships to shifts in 
regulation, payments infrastructure and the architecture of the international 
monetary system. 
This Deutsche Bank Currency Book brings together academic, industry and 
Deutsche Bank expertise to explain how FX markets function, how exchange 
rates are determined, how investors seek to generate returns from currencies, 
and how FX risk can be managed by investors and corporates alike. Our aim 
throughout the Book is to set out the enduring principles driving markets 
alongside the developments defining FX today. Ultimately, the structure of the FX 
market is not simply a question of how currencies trade, but of who controls the 
financial infrastructure through which money moves across borders. The 
evolution of FX is increasingly intertwined with questions of monetary 
sovereignty, financial resilience and geopolitical power. 
Chapter 1 reviews the structure of the FX market, examining its participants, 
ecosystem and evolution over time. Chapter 2 discusses exchange rate 
determination, moving from traditional academic theories to modern macro-
financial approaches and practical decision frameworks. Chapter 3 reviews FX 
as an asset class and the evidence on currency investing, while Chapter 4 
considers currency hedging for both investors and corporates. Finally, Chapter 5 
discusses the future of FX, including the impact of technology, payment systems 
and digital assets.

### Page 2

The Currency Book
Page 2 Deutsche Bank AG
Published by Deutsche Bank Research, 14th September 2026

### Page 3

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 3
Contents
Introduction (p.5)
Chapter 1 - Market structure (p.7)
1.1 Instruments
1.2 FX spot trading life cycle and risks
1.3 Market participants
1.4 Profit versus non-profit seekers
1.5 The FX ecosystem
Chapter 2 - Exchange rate determination (p.30)
2.1 Why the efficient market hypothesis breaks down in FX
2.2 Underlying principles of exchange rate determination
2.3 Time horizons of exchange rate determination

2.4 Purchasing Power Parity and the long-run real exchange rate
2.5 Productivity, the Balassa-Samuelson effect and terms of trade
2.6 External balances, net foreign assets and equilibrium exchange rate concepts
2.7 Medium-run macro models
2.8 Short-run determination I: Order flow and market microstructure
2.9 Short-run determination II: Positioning, options flow, sentiment, data releases
and technical analysis
2.10 Forecasting performance and the Meese-Rogoff Puzzle

2.11 Modern theories of the exchange rate
2.12 Central bank intervention
2.13 Currency regimes and emerging market crises
2.14 Frontier topics: machine learning and digital currencies

### Page 4

The Currency Book
Page 4 Deutsche Bank AG
2.15 Cryptocurrencies, stablecoins and CBDCs
2.16 Bringing it all together
Chapter 3 - FX as an asset class (p.59)
3.1 FX "beta" and factor investing
3.2 Systematic and quant-based investors
3.3 Discretionary currency manager "alpha"
Chapter 4 - Currency hedging (p.64)
4.1 The problem of defining the hedging "objective"
4.2 Currency hedging for investors
4.3 Currency hedging for corporates
4.4 Hedging emerging market currencies

Chapter 5 - The future of FX (p. 72)
5.1 Technology and market structure
5.2 Stablecoins and payment rails as the new geopolitical battle lines
5.3 Tokenization and programmability
5.4 Concluding thoughts
Appendix (p.76)
Profit vs non-profit seekers in the FX market
Glossary (p. 81)
Glossary of terms

### Page 5

Deutsche Bank AG Page 5
Introduction
With trillions of dollars, euros and yen changing hands every day, foreign exchange
is indisputably the largest and most liquid financial market in the world. Yet despite
its size, the currency market is also one of the least understood. Unlike bonds or
equities, there is no widely accepted framework for explaining currency moves,
which reflect a complex  interplay of macroeconomics,  capital flows,  market
structure, investor behaviour and (geo)politics.

Over the past two decades, advances in technology and market infrastructure have
transformed how currencies are traded, placing FX at the  forefront of broader
changes in global finance. Yet because currencies sit at the intersection of national
economies, the FX market is also fundamentally connected to international trade
and cross-border capital flows. It is therefore increasingly exposed to the forces
reshaping the global economic landscape—from geopolitical fragmentation and

changing trade relationships to shifts in regulation, payments infrastructure and
the architecture of the international monetary system.
This Deutsche Bank Currency Book brings together  academic, industry and
Deutsche Bank expertise to explain how FX markets function, how exchange rates
are determined, how investors seek to generate returns from currencies, and how
FX risk can be managed by investors and corporates alike. Our aim throughout
the Book is to set out the enduring principles driving markets alongside

the developments defining FX today. Ultimately, the structure of the FX
market is not simply a question of how currencies trade, but of who
controls the financial infrastructure through which money moves across
borders. The evolution of FX is increasingly intertwined with questions
of monetary sovereignty, financial resilience and geopolitical power.
The Currency Book

### Page 6

The Currency Book
Page 6 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 1: Turnover in spot FX dwarfs other asset classes
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
Spot FX USTs Major Stock
Markets
Agency MBS Other Bonds
Average daily turnover (Cash instruments, USD billions 2025/26)
Source : Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Bank of England, BIS.
Note: Major Stock Markets covers all US stock Markets, LSE and Nikkei
Chapter 1 reviews the structure of the FX market, examining its participants,

ecosystem and evolution over time. Chapter 2 discusses exchange rate
determination, moving from traditional academic theories to modern macro-
financial approaches and practical decision frameworks. Chapter 3 reviews FX
as
an asset class and the evidence on currency investing, while Chapter 4
considers currency hedging for both investors and corporates. Finally, Chapter 5
discusses the future of FX, including the impact of technology, payment
systems and digital assets.

### Page 7

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 7
Introduction
The foreign exchange market is the world’s largest and most liquid financial market,
but it differs fundamentally from a centralised exchange. Trading takes place across
a fragmented, largely over-the-counter network of banks, non-bank liquidity
providers, electronic venues and end-users, using instruments ranging from spot
and forwards to swaps, futures and options. How do transactions move through

this network? Who provides liquidity, who consumes it and what risks arise
between execution and settlement? This chapter maps the FX ecosystem from
instruments and trading infrastructure to the participants ultimately responsible for
currency demand.
1.1 Instruments
The FX market is not one single product. Instead, it is made up of a group of
instruments that allow market participants to exchange currencies today, lock in an
exchange rate for the future and/or hedge against adverse exchange-rate moves.

Below, we outline the main instruments in FX markets and their users.
Spot: This is the simplest and most widely known FX instrument. When market
participants refer to “the exchange-rate” or the “spot exchange-rate,” they
generally mean the price agreed today for exchanging one currency for another on
the standard spot settlement date. For most major currency pairs spot settlement
is two business days later (T+2).1  For example, a spot purchase of EUR 1 million

against the USD at a EUR/USD exchange-rate of 1.20 means that the buyer receives
EUR 1 million in his or her bank account on the settlement date and the seller
receives USD 1.2 million from the buyer on the same date.
1 There are exceptions, for example USD/CAD settles T+1.

### Page 8

The Currency Book
Page 8 Deutsche Bank AG
By convention, the first currency in an exchange-rate quotation is known as the
base currency, while the second is the quote currency. The exchange-rate therefore
represents the number of units of the quote currency required to purchase one unit
of the base currency. In USD/JPY, for example, the USD is the base currency and the
exchange-rate indicates the number of Japanese yen required to purchase one US

dollar. A USD/JPY exchange-rate of 160 means 1 USD can be exchanged for 160
JPY.
Spot transactions are the most commonly used foreign exchange payments for
cross-border payments for goods and services, the purchase of foreign financial
assets, as well as portfolio rebalancing and proprietary trading. In 2025, the Bank
for International Settlements (BIS) estimates spot turnover at $3trn per day,
accounting for 31% of global over-the-counter (OTC) FX turnover.

Forwards and futures: An (outright) forward is similar to a spot transaction, but is
instead an agreement to exchange two currencies at a rate (price) agreed today, but
with settlement taking place at a date more than T+2 days in the future. They are
also traded OTC. Forwards are most commonly used by those who have a known
future cash flow and want to remove uncertainty around the future exchange rate.
In 2025, the BIS estimates that they account for 19% of global turnover, or $1.8trn

per day.
Futures are economically similar to forwards but are standardised contracts traded
on exchanges and centrally cleared. This provides transparent pricing and reduces
bilateral counterparty risk, but offers less flexibility over contract size, maturity and
settlement terms than an OTC forward. Exchange-traded FX futures remain
considerably smaller than the OTC FX market.
Non-deliverable forwards (NDFs): An NDF is a cash-settled forward commonly

used for currencies where convertibility or offshore deliverability is restricted. Two
parties agree today on an exchange rate for a future date, but unlike a standard
forward, the underlying currencies are not exchanged. At maturity, the agreed NDF
rate is compared with a pre-specified fixing or reference rate. The difference is
usually settled in USD. NDFs are commonly used by corporates, banks and
investors to hedge or take exposure to currencies subject to capital controls.

Swaps: An FX swap combines two transactions: an exchange of currencies on an
initial date and a reverse exchange at a later date, with both exchange rates agreed
when the swap is initiated. They are used by institutions that hold cash in one
currency (e.g. EUR) but need funding in another (e.g. USD) for investment, hedging
or other needs. They are by far the largest FX instrument by turnover, with the BIS
estimating turnover of $4trn per day in April 2025, 42% of global FX turnover. A

swap is, in effect, a form of collateralised borrowing, with the collateral being cash
in a different currency to that of the currency borrowed.
Cross-currency (XCCY) swaps: A cross-currency swap is similar to an FX swap in
that principal amounts denominated in two different currencies are typically
exchanged at inception and reversed at maturity. The key difference is that a cross-
currency swap also involves periodic exchanges of interest payments denominated

in the two currencies over the life of the contract. These payments may be fixed or
floating. Cross-currency swaps therefore allow market participants to transform
both the currency denomination and, where relevant, the interest-rate
characteristics of an asset or liability.

### Page 9

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 9
For example:
n Suppose a European corporate issues a USD-denominated bond to US-
based investors. It receives the bond proceeds in USD, but must
periodically pay interest in USD and repay the USD principal when the bond
matures. However, because the corporate primarily earns revenue in EUR,
it needs to convert these USD liabilities into EUR liabilities to avoid currency
and potentially interest-rate risk.

n The corporate removes FX and interest-rate risk by entering into a xccy
swap, where, in essence, it converts this USD-liability into a EUR-liability.2
n They are commonly used by banks, corporates and investors that need to
raise money in one currency but need funds in another. The basis is the extra
spread added to one side of the swap to balance unequal demand for
funding in the two currencies. See Section 2.11 for more on cross-currency
basis and here.

Options: An option gives the holder the right, but not the obligation, to buy or sell
one currency against another at a specified exchange rate during a specified period.
Options are used to hedge currency risk or speculate on currency movements and
are particularly useful when the end-user wants an asymmetric payoff profile.
Unlike a forward, an option can limit losses from an adverse currency movement
while allowing the holder to retain some or all of the benefit from a favourable

movement. In 2025, they represented around 7% of global FX turnover. Options are
widely used by corporates and investors for hedging, and by investors and dealers
to express directional or volatility views.
The simplest and most widely used instruments are vanilla options, which give the
holder the right to buy (a call) or sell (a put) a currency at a predetermined strike
price. A European-style option can be exercised only at expiry, while an American-

style option can be exercised at any point up to expiry. More structured products
include barrier options, whose payoff is activated or extinguished if the exchange
rate reaches a specified level—for example, knock-in and knock-out options. One-
touch and no-touch options pay a fixed amount depending on whether the
exchange-rate does, or does not, reach a predetermined level during the life of the
option. These instruments are commonly used to express views not just on the

direction of a currency pair, but also on the probability, timing and magnitude of
exchange-rate moves.
1.2 FX spot trading life cycle and risks
Having discussed the main FX instruments, the next step is to examine how these
transactions are executed and settled in practice. The complete trade life cycle,
meaning the sequence of events and processes involved in executing a trade, is
crucial to understanding how FX transactions work. We therefore describe below

the broad steps involved in trading FX, focusing on spot transactions. They are:
1.  Pre-trade: This stage encompasses all the necessary preparations before
a trade is executed, including client onboarding, platform selection, credit
checks, and regulatory compliance.
2 Specifically, it exchanges the USD bond proceeds for EUR at inception, receives USD interest payments
(from the swap counterparty to pay U.S. bond investors) and pays EUR interest (to the swap

counterparty) over the life of the swap, and receives USD principal (from the swap counterparty to pay
U.S. investors) in exchange for EUR principal at maturity. The USD receipts from the swap are used to
meet the bond’s USD interest and principal payments, effectively converting the USD-denominated
bond into a EUR-denominated liability.

### Page 10

The Currency Book
Page 10 Deutsche Bank AG
2.  Trade execution: This is the point where the trade is agreed upon and
executed at a specific exchange rate, creating a legally binding contract.
3.  Trade clearing: This stage involves validating trade details and managing
counterparty credit risk before settlement, either bilaterally or through a
central clearing counterparty (CCP). In centrally cleared FX markets, the
CCP becomes the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer,

reducing direct counterparty exposures between market participants.
Specialist FX CCPs, such as LCH's ForexClear, clear both non-deliverable
and deliverable FX products. While FX spot transactions can be cleared,
they are not subject to mandatory clearing requirements. ForexClear
supports 25 non-deliverable forward (NDF) currency pairs, 9 non-
deliverable option (NDO) currency pairs, and 8 deliverable (Spot, Forwards
and Options) currency pairs, at the time of writing.

4.  Trade settlement: This final stage represents the completion of the
transaction, with the actual exchange of currencies taking place.
Settlement for spot trades typically occurs two business days (T+2) after
the trade date, although exceptions exist. For example, USD/CAD settles
on a T+1 basis.
Figure 2: FX Spot Trade Life Cycle
Source : Deutsche Bank
Risks surrounding FX spot trading
The over-the-counter (OTC) nature of the FX market, while offering flexibility and

adaptability to participant needs, does present certain risks that are often more
pronounced compared to exchange-traded markets. Below we discuss some of the
key risks in FX.
Credit risk: Credit risk in FX trading, stemming from a counterparty's potential
inability to fulfill its obligations, is present throughout the trade lifecycle:
n Pre-trade: Counterparty creditworthiness is a critical consideration in the
A Central Clearing Counterparty (CCP), also

known as a Central Counterparty, stands
between buyers and sellers in financial
markets, becoming the buyer to every
seller and the seller to every buyer. This
mitigates counterparty risk.

### Page 11

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 11
pre-trade stage of FX transactions. A thorough assessment should involve
evaluating the potential counterparty's financial strength, credit rating, and
reputation. Choosing a creditworthy counterparty significantly reduces the
risk of default throughout the trade lifecycle.
n Post-trade (Clearing and Settlement): While credit risk exists in both the
clearing (post-execution/pre-settlement) and settlement stages of a spot

FX trade, it primarily materializes during settlement. This stage, involving
the actual exchange of currencies, carries the highest risk due to the
potential for settlement failure. This risk, often referred to as settlement risk,
arises when one party delivers their currency while the counterparty
defaults. Cross-border trades are particularly vulnerable due to time zone
differences, which can create a window where one party has performed but
the other has not. Additionally, mark-to-market risk from FX rate

fluctuations between trade and settlement dates can exacerbate
settlement risk by increasing potential losses from a default. This is
particularly pronounced with forward contracts, where the longer pre-
settlement period leads to greater mark-to-market risk and, consequently,
higher settlement risk.
Market Risk: This risk in FX trading arises from potential losses due to adverse
exchange-rate movements. This is influenced by factors like economic data,

geopolitical events, and interest rates. For customers, asymmetric information,
where one party has more or better information than another, can lead to inefficient
pricing and increased volatility, thereby exacerbating market risk.
n For dealers, a key component of market risk is inventory management risk
– the potential for losses from unfavourable price movements in the
currencies they hold to facilitate client trading. Effective inventory
management, including position limits and hedging, mitigates this risk.

Liquidity Risk: This refers to the overall market's ability to facilitate the buying and
selling of a currency pair quickly and efficiently at a desired price. It's influenced by
factors such as market depth, trading volume, volatility, and fragmentation.
Operational Risk: This encompasses risks associated with trade processing,
settlement, and technology. Errors in trade execution, system failures, and fraud
can all lead to significant losses.
Regulatory Risk: This refers to the risk arising from changes in regulations or their

interpretation. The evolving regulatory landscape in FX, particularly concerning
non-bank dealers and systemic risk, can impact market participants and create
uncertainty.
1.3 Market participants
The FX market comprises a variety of participants with different objectives. FX
market participants fall into two broad categories: financial and non-financial.
Financial participants can act as both liquidity providers and consumers, while non-
financial participants act largely as liquidity consumers.

Financial participants: In the FX market, financial participants are primarily banks
acting as dealers.
n Dealers: These are mainly large commercial banks, investment banks and
securities houses that participate in the inter-dealer market for proprietary

### Page 12

The Currency Book
Page 12 Deutsche Bank AG
trading. 3 and/or for meeting customer demand through market-making.4
n Institutional investors: These are mutual funds, pension funds, insurance
companies and endowment funds, collectively referred to as “real-money
investors”, which need to buy currencies to satisfy end-user demand for an
underlying asset. For instance, a UK pension fund needs to buy USD to
purchase US equities. These investors also engage in hedging, proprietary

trading and risk management activities.
n Hedge Funds & Principal Trading Firms (PTFs): Hedge funds are
investment funds that follow a broad range of investment strategies and are
generally not subject to the same borrowing and leverage restrictions as
traditional investment funds. They are users of FX and derivatives for
speculative purposes. PTFs are principal trading firms, such as XTX
Markets and Citadel Securities, that hedge or speculate for their own

account and also participate in market-making. This category may include
high-frequency trading firms that employ high-speed algorithmic trading
strategies.
Non financial institutions: Non-financial participants, such as corporations
involved in international trade, retail and the official sector, also primarily consume
liquidity.
n Corporates are active in currency markets primarily to manage FX
exposures 5  arising from international trade, foreign-currency financing,

overseas operations and cross-border mergers and acquisitions (M&A).6
n Official sector: This category includes central banks, sovereign wealth
funds, international financial institutions, such as the IMF and BIS,
development banks and government agencies. Monetary-policy, financial-
stability and mercantilist considerations have all, at various times,
motivated central-bank intervention in FX.7
n Other: This category includes all other market participants, including retail

participants. Retail participants engage in FX both to speculate and to meet
transactional demand arising from travel, trade or investment.
1.4 Profit versus non-profit seekers
In 2025, daily FX turnover reached $9.5 trillion according to the BIS triennial survey
(BIS, 2025) making currency trading the world's largest financial market. Yet,
size and liquidity do not necessarily imply efficiency. Unlike most equity or
bond transactions, a large share of FX activity serves an underlying

transactional purpose. For instance, corporates must convert revenues and
meet foreign- currency invoices; institutional investors hedge overseas
assets; and dealers intermediate these flows. For these participants,
expected FX returns may be secondary, or even irrelevant, to the decision to
trade. In this section, we investigate
3 Proprietary trading is a profit-seeking activity that dealers once engaged in more extensively, but which
has been severely constrained by regulatory change. Most notably, the Volcker Rule, implemented in

2014-15 under the Dodd-Frank regulations, bans banks from engaging in proprietary trading activities,
including many foreign exchange instruments.
4 Market making: This is an activity that seeks to capture returns by matching buyers and sellers and
charging a price for the service through the bid-offer spread. This spread represents the price that
liquidity seekers must pay to access the market and is a “frictional” cost of executing transactions. As

such, market-making is a liquidity-provision service rather than a source of the ‘excess returns'
associated with activities such as proprietary trading
Institutional investors are subject to a
variety of (1) regulatory, (2) mandate and
(3) process constraints.
(1) Regulatory constraints have had an
increasingly important influence on cross-
border investment since 2008.
(2) Mandate constraints relate to limits
placed on investment allocations by a

fund’s internal rules. These constraints may
arise from, among other things, fund
design (i.e., fund characteristics, regions,
target benchmarks, target returns),
founding charters or guidelines (i.e. many
endowments have externally imposed
constraints on investment allocations and
government policy (i.e. Norway's pension
fund mandate is determined by the
government). These restrictions can
materially limit a fund’s ability to take
currency risk. The simplest mandate

distinction is between passive and active
funds, with the former following an index
and therefore being explicitly required to
track its returns.
(3) Process constraints relate to limits
placed on the decision-making process.
Most investment funds abide by internal
risk rules designed to limit exposure to
losses during periods of market volatility.
These rules can generate value-at-risk (VaR)
shocks.
5 For more see here
6 Corporates using foreign exchange to hedge future exposures may also seek hedge accounting to

### Page 13

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 13
the division of the market between profit-seeking and non-profit-seeking
participants. This is the first step in understanding exchange-rate determination.
Figure 3: Daily FX turnover by counterparty
Source : BIS, Deutsche bank
Figure 4: Daily FX turnover by instrument
Source : BIS, Deutsche Bank
Approach 1: The Triennial BIS Survey of FX market volumes
We use the 2025 BIS Triennial Survey to update Deutsche Bank's previous work

(Saravelos et al, 2018) and estimate the share of FX turnover initiated with a profit-
seeking currency objective. We construct a "realistic scenario", which applies what
we deem to be "realistic" assumptions about participants’ ability and mandate to
take FX risk.8 We find that profit-seeking activity accounts for approximately 40%
of turnover under the realistic scenario.9
Financial participants
n Dealers: Dealer-to-dealer activity accounts for approximately 47% of total

daily FX turnover ($4.44trn) and we classify 10% of dealer flow as profit-
seeking ($444bn/day). Given that much of the daily FX turnover reflects
market-making, we assume that inter-dealer transactions conducted by
voice are not profit-seeking and that only electronic transactions
conducted through order-matching systems such as EBS are profit-
seeking.
n Hedge Funds and PTFs: Hedge Funds and PTFs account for approximately
$760bn (8%) of headline daily FX turnover and we classify 90% of this as

profit-seeking ($684bn/day). The $684bn/day figure represents the profit-
seeking nature of hedge-funds where the remaining 10% reflects the
ensure that the mark-to-market value of their hedge does not introduce unwanted volatility in the
income statement. IFRS 9 provided an updated set of standards for hedge accounting, designed to
increase flexibility and better link financial reporting to firms’ risk management practices. However,
hedge accounting still places limitations on the types of instruments and kinds of hedges that can be

implemented. For example, to qualify for hedge accounting, corporates must adhere to hedge
effectiveness and demonstrate that an economic relationship between the underlying cash flow or
asset and the hedge exists, as well as quantitative limits to hedge ratios.
7 Exchange rates are explicitly targeted by some central banks as part of their overall monetary policy
framework (for instance the Monetary Authority of Singapore or the Hong Kong Monetary Authority);

other central banks have intervened to defend their inflation target or financial stability reasons (most
recently, the Swiss National Bank); and others to prevent competitiveness losses in global trade.

### Page 14

The Currency Book
Page 14 Deutsche Bank AG
expansion of PTFs to act not only as profit-seekers but also as liquidity
providers.
Figure 5: Profit-seekers make up 40% of the FX market
Source : BIS, TIC, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Deutsche Bank
n Non-Reporting Banks: Non-reporting banks account for approximately
$2.19trn, or 23% of headline daily turnover and we classify 10% of this as
profit-seeking ($220bn/day). These largely intermediate for institutional

and non-financial customers and apply the same profit-seeking
assumptions as we do for dealers.
n Institutional investors:Institutional investors account for $2.56tn of daily
BIS turnover 10  and we classify 30% of this as profit-seeking. We assume
80% of active fixed-income managers have discretion to take FX risk and
50% of active equity managers have discretion to take FX risk, implying a
profit-seeking share of approximately 30%.
n Official Sector: The official sector accounts for approximately 1-2% of

headline FX turnover and we classify 50% of the turnover as profit-seeking.
The motivations within this category vary. Central-bank intervention may
pursue monetary-policy, financial-stability or exchange-rate objectives,
while reserve managers may also seek to preserve capital and earn returns.
Non-Financial Sector:
n Corporates and governments: Corporates and governments account for
10% of daily FX turnover and we classify 0% of this flow as profit-seeking.

8 An upper-bound scenario, which relaxes those "realistic" assumptions and produces a higher estimate
of profit-seeking activity by classifying ambiguous transactions as profit-seeking is outlined in
Appendix .
9 See Appendix for full methodology
10 After reallocation flow from intermediated by non-reporting banks, see Appendix for full
methodology.
11

### Page 15

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 15
n Other and Undistributed: The BIS residual “other” category accounts for
approximately 2% of headline turnover. We classify 50% as profit-seeking.
12 The undistributed category accounts for less than 1% of headline daily
turnover and we classify this as 0% profit-seeking.
Bringing it all together: Taken together, we estimate that approximately 40% of
adjusted FX turnover is profit-seeking, while approximately 60% is liquidity-seeking

or transactional.
Figure 6: There are more liquidity seekers than profit seekers in our baseline estimates of FX market size
15%
12% 40%
34%
0%
10
%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
Real
Mo
ney
Non-
Reporting
Banks
Profit
Seeking
Real
Mone
y
Non-
Financial
Customers
Other
Official
Sector
Undist.
Hedge
Funds &
PTFs
Liquidity
Seeking
Total FX
Turnover
Estimated breakdown of daily FX turnover
(US
D billions, % of total Flow) under
Realistic Assumptions

60%
Official
Se
ctor
14%
FX
Deale
rs
Other
Source : BIS, TIC, Federal Reserve Bank of New York, Deutsche Bank
Approach 2: Commitment of Traders CFTC data
While the BIS data provide the most comprehensive view of the global FX market,
the survey is only updated every three years. For a higher-frequency perspective, we
therefore complement it with the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission’s
Commitments of Traders (CoT) report, which is published weekly and provides a

breakdown of positions in exchange-traded currency futures and options,
principally those traded on the Chicago Mercantile Exchange (CME). The report
sho
ws the number of outstanding long and short contracts held by different
categories of market participant, based on positions as of each Tuesday. Although
the futures market represents only a small subset of total global FX activity—most
of which takes place over the counter—the CoT data provide a timely and consistent

measure of how speculative and hedging positions are evolving.
11 Corporates use FX to settle foreign-currency revenues and expenses, finance cross-border activity,
hedge forecast cash flows and manage earnings volatility. Governments similarly transact to meet an
underlying funding or expenditure requirement.
12 Some investors trade currencies to earn returns, while other transactions relate to travel, remittances
or purchases of foreign assets

### Page 16

The Currency Book
Page 16 Deutsche Bank AG
In the traditional or “legacy” CoT report, reportable positions  are divided into
commercial and non-commercial traders, alongside a residual category of smaller,
non-reportable positions. Commercial traders are generally entities that use futures
primarily in connection  with an underlying business activity  and are therefore
commonly interpreted as hedgers—for  example, corporates or financial
institutions managing currency exposures. We classify these positions as liquidity

seeking. Non-commercial traders,  by contrast, are participants  whose futures
activity is not classified as commercial hedging and typically includes hedge funds,
commodity trading advisers and other leveraged investors. We therefore treat
non-commercial positions as profit-seeking. Figure 7 and Figure 8 show how the
relative size of the profit-seeking FX market has developed over time. Using one-
year rolling averages to reduce the noise of the data, we see that roughly 30-40%

of the futures market (EUR/USD, GBP/USD, USD/JPY) is profit-seeking.
Figure 7: Profit-seeking activity in EUR futures
0%
20%
4
0%
60%
80%
100%
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25
EUR/USD forwards: share of profit seeking
Profit Seeking (Non-commercial) Liquidity Seeking
Source : CFTC, Bloomberg Finance LP
Figure 8: Profit-seeking activity in JPY futures
0%
20%
40%
60
%
80%
100%
04 05 06 07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25

USD/JPY forwards: share of profit seeking
Profit Seeking (Non-commercial) Liquidity Seeking
Source : CFTC, Bloomberg Finance LP
Approach 3: Options market DTCC data
Following the implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act, OTC FX options falling within
the US regulatory perimeter are required to be reported to a CFTC-registered swap
data repository (SDR). This includes transactions involving US market participants,
among others. DTCC operates one of the largest data repositories and therefore

captures a substantial share of global institutional FX option activity. We estimate
that the DTCC data capture more than  20% of global FX derivative  volumes,
providing another way of estimating the relative importance of profit- and non-
profit-seeking activity in the FX market.
While the data does not provide  client granularity, we can back out the  likely
motivation of the transaction by distinguishing between out-of-the-money and in-
the-money option trades. We argue that strikes preferred by the different client

groups will likely differ, with hedgers favouring out of the money options (0-25
delta). While speculators focus on directional leverage, the latter often translates
to options with strikes nearer to the money (25-75 delta).
Figure 9 shows the split in options volumes for 2025/26 across the two investor
categories. We find that option volumes are roughly split equally between investors
and hedgers. FX options are instruments that are favoured by hedge funds over

corporates and institutional investors, so the results here likely materially overstate
the relative importance of profit-maximizing participants in other markets. Again,
this shows the FX market is split roughly 50/50 by those who are profit-seeking and
those who are not.

### Page 17

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 17
Figure 9: Size of profit-seekers in the FX options market
0%
10
%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
EUR JPY GBP CAD AUD NZD NOK SEK CHF MXN TRY ZAR PLN ILS KRW CNH SGD Total
Share
Investors (ATM) Hedgers (OTM)
Source : Deutsche Bank , Bloomberg Finance LP, DTCC
*Note: Option volumes captured only for currencies against USD.
1.5 The FX ecosystem
Following Grover and Saravelos (2025) , this section examines the significant

changes in FX market structure in recent decades, with a particular focus on the FX
spot market, and highlights the key challenges that have emerged as a result of this
transformation. To understand how these challenges emerged, it is useful to begin
by examining the evolution of the FX spot market.
1.5.1 The Evolution of FX Trading: From Voice to Electronic
We analyse the evolution of the FX spot market, focusing on the shift from a pre-
electronification era of voice-based trading and bank-centric risk management to

the phased electronification of interdealer and dealer-client segments. This
transformation has led to the emergence of diverse execution styles and trading
venues, which will be explored to provide a comprehensive overview of the
changing FX landscape and its implications for risk mitigation. The discussion
begins with an examination of the pre-electronification era.
1.Voice trading: The age of the telephone
Early foreign exchange (FX) trading was a two-tiered system conducted over the

phone (Figure 10). Clients contacted dealers (outer tier) directly to inquire about bid
and ask prices. Dealers profited from the difference between these prices (the bid-
ask spread). Dealers further traded amongst themselves (the "inter-dealer market"
- inner tier) to manage inventory imbalances arising from trading with clients. They
did this either directly or anonymously through voice brokers.
In this two-tier system, banks acted as the sole liquidity providers and risk bearers

in the FX market. Inter-dealer trading, used for hedging and inventory management,
formed a significant portion of overall trading volume.

### Page 18

The Currency Book
Page 18 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 10: The age of the telephone
Source : Deutsche Bank
2.Rise of the machines
The first wave of electronic trading in FX markets primarily affected the inter-dealer
market, replacing phone-based trading with computer systems while leaving the
dealer-client relationship unchanged. Here, we first discuss the main innovations in
the inter-dealer market and then move on to the dealer-client segment.
(a)Electronification of inter-dealer market

Two major innovations in the trading process facilitated by technological advances
led to major transformations in the inter-dealer market. They are:
n The introduction of electronic brokers, Reuters/Refinitiv (now LSEG) and
EBS, in the early 1990s brought a centralized, anonymous limit order book
to FX trading, similar to equity market exchanges. This increased the
efficiency of price discovery and inventory risk management. These two
platforms are still considered primary trading venues.

n Large banks increasingly internalized trades (settling within their own
books) in the early to mid-2000s. This reduced their need to manage
inventory risk through inter-dealer platforms. Figure 11 demonstrates this
shift in FX market dynamics, showing a decline in dealer-reported spot
trading from roughly 70% in the 1990s to 40% recently. For the largest
dealers, internalization now accounts for an estimated 80% or more of
major currency pair trades (Moore et al., 2016; Schrimpf and Sushko, 2019).

The two innovations (electronic brokers and trade internalisation) primarily
impacted the inter-dealer market, improving efficiency and narrowing bid-ask
spreads (King et. al, 2012). Thus, resulting in a more efficient inventory risk
management (Figure 12).
The benefits of electronification were not limited to the trading process. It also
helped FX markets address settlement risk in the late 1990s. Settlement risk (a
form of credit risk) , also known as "Herstatt risk," arose due to cross-border

currency transfers being limited by central bank operating hours. This created a
window where one party to a transaction could default after the other had already
settled.
Settlement risk posed a significant challenge. The potential for a default after one
leg of an FX transaction had settled created a substantial credit exposure for banks.
This exposure could be particularly large for major dealers, where transactions with

### Page 19

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 19
even a single counterparty could exceed the bank's capital.
Figure 11: Drop in dealer share of spot trading as a result
of internalization
0%
20
%
40%
60%
80%
100%
1992 1995 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2016 2019 2022 2025
Reporting dealers Non-dealers
Source : Deutsche Bank, BIS Triennial Survey
Figure 12: Rise of the machines Part I – electronification of
the inter-dealer
Source : Deutsche Bank
To address this, a group of banks developed a new electronic settlement system –

the Continuous Linked Settlement (CLS) Bank, which began operating in 2002.
CLS mitigates settlement risk by simultaneously settling both sides of a trade and
by netting payments between member banks.
This netting process drastically reduces the actual funds transferred for settlement
to just 4% of the total traded value.  More than $14 trillion in gross financial
obligations were settled on an average day in April 2025, with just over one-third
(36%) settled through PvP systems, predominantly CLS, eliminating FX settlement

risk for those transactions.
(b)Electronification of the dealer-client segment
Electronic trading in the inter-dealer market increased efficiency and narrowed bid-
ask spreads within that market. However, the dealer-client segment remained
largely unchanged, and did not experience the same efficiency gains and reduced
bid-ask spreads as the inter-dealer market. This resulted in a surge of new electronic
trading platforms specifically designed for clients.

With the electronification of the FX market, new liquidity providers emerged,
aiming to reduce market-related liquidity risk and reshape the trading landscape.
These new players, enabled by technological advancements, include:
1.Multi-dealer platforms (MDP), emerging in the early 2000s, allowed clients to
request for quotes (RFQs) from multiple dealers at once. This streamlined the price
discovery process, enabling clients to compare pricing from various dealers

through a single platform rather than individual phone calls. The increased
competition and transparency benefited clients. Example of MDPs include but are

### Page 20

The Currency Book
Page 20 Deutsche Bank AG
not limited to FXconnect, FXall, 360T.
2.Single dealer platforms (SDP):  Many banks developed their own single-dealer
platforms (SDPs) to facilitate direct electronic trading with clients. These SDPs
largely replaced older communication methods such as telephone and telex for
bilateral trading. Examples include J.P. Morgan eXecute, UBS  Neo, and Citi
Velocity.
Financial and non-financial consumers of FX (liquidity consumers) can access both

A key distinction, however, is that MDPs primarily facilitate connections between
liquidity consumers (e.g., asset managers, hedge funds, corporations) and liquidity
providers (mainly banks). They do not bear the risk of inventory imbalances
stemming from client trades. Conversely, SDPs are integrated within individual
bank infrastructures and, consequently, are part of the bank's broader risk
management function.
3. Prime-brokerage: The emergence of prime brokerage (PB) arrangements in the

late 1990s marked a significant shift in FX market structure, allowing clients such
as hedge funds to access the inter-dealer market directly or through electronic
brokers.Under a prime-brokerage arrangement, a large bank effectively lends its
credit standing and trading relationships to a client—typically a hedge fund, asset
manager or other active non-bank institution. Rather than having to establish
separate bilateral credit lines and trading documentation with every dealer it wishes

to face, the client establishes a primary credit relationship with a single prime
broker. The prime broker sets trading limits, monitors the client's exposures,
requires collateral or margin where appropriate and charges a fee, typically linked
to trading volume and the amount of credit consumed.
This structure allows hedge funds to access liquidity that was historically available
mainly to banks in the interdealer market. A hedge fund can execute an FX trade

with one of many approved dealing banks, or through an electronic venue linking
multiple dealers, using the credit of its prime broker. The executing dealer therefore
does not need to extend a separate bilateral credit line to the hedge fund itself:
subject to pre-agreed limits, it accepts the prime broker as the ultimate credit
counterparty. Once the client executes the trade, it is “given up” to the prime broker.
In legal and settlement terms, the transaction is generally transformed into two

matching trades: one between the executing dealer and the prime broker, and
another between the prime broker and the hedge fund client. The prime broker
consequently stands between the client and the wider dealer network from a credit
perspective, even though it need not be involved in choosing the price or executing
the original trade.
Prime brokerage therefore separates execution from credit provision. A hedge fund
can seek the best price across many banks and electronic liquidity pools while

concentrating its credit, collateral and settlement relationship with one or a small
number of prime brokers. Before PB became widespread, a hedge fund's ability to
trade with a dealer depended much more directly on whether that dealer was
willing to establish a bilateral credit relationship with it, limiting the number of
counterparties it could access and often preventing it from trading on the same
electronic venues or at the same prices as large banks. PB substantially lowered this

Request for Quote (RFQ): It's a request
from a liquidity consumer to a liquidity
provider (like a bank) asking for the price at
which they are willing to buy or sell a
specific currency pair. The RFQ will
typically specify the currency pair, the
amount to be exchanged, and potentially
the desired settlement date. The FX
provider then responds with a quote, which
includes the exchange rate they are
offering.

### Page 21

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 21
barrier and helped non-bank institutions become much more active participants in
what had previously been a predominantly bank-to-bank market.
Prime brokerage also generates important operational and balance-sheet
efficiencies. Because trades with multiple executing dealers are ultimately
consolidated at the prime broker, clients can net exposures across counterparties,
reducing the amount of collateral and settlement infrastructure required. PB

arrangements also facilitate access to a wider range of liquidity providers—
including smaller and specialist banks—and support automated trade matching,
confirmation and straight-through processing. At the same time, the prime broker
assumes significant counterparty and operational risk: it is responsible to executing
dealers for trades conducted under its name and must therefore impose credit
limits and monitor the client's positions, leverage and trading activity in real time.

Prime brokerage thus does not eliminate credit risk; rather, it centralises it at the
prime broker while allowing execution to be dispersed across the wider market.
Today, a substantial share of spot FX trading is conducted through prime brokerage
arrangements (Figure 13).
Figure 13: Around 40% of total spot trading is done via prime brokerage
0%
5%
10%
1
5%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
50%
2013 2016 2019 2022 2025
%  of total spot trading /Daily avg. turnover in USD bln

Source : Deutsche Bank, BIS Triennial Survey
4.Principal trading firms (non-bank dealers): Traditionally, banks acted as the
primary dealers, or liquidity providers, in the decentralised OTC FX market.
However, prime brokerage facilitated client access to primary FX trading venues
(EBS/Reuters). This allowed principal trading firms (PTFs), such as XTX Markets and
Citadel Securities, to leverage their technological capabilities for electronic market-

making, becoming key liquidity providers and serving a wide range of clients, from
regional banks to institutional investors.
While Principal Trading Firms (PTFs) are key FX market liquidity providers, they also
engage in proprietary trading (investing, hedging, speculating) including high-
frequency trading (HFT). HFT firms utilise sophisticated algorithms to execute a
large number of rapid trades, often holding positions for extremely short durations.

In this capacity, some PTF firms also act as liquidity consumers. This dual role has
contributed to the growth of algorithmic traders in FX, impacting inter-dealer
trading and the rise of other financial institutions' trading, as noted by BIS Triennial
Surveys (Figure 14).

### Page 22

The Currency Book
Page 22 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 14: Increase in financial institution spot trading due to the emergence of principal trading firms (algorithmic firms)
0%
20
%
40%
60%
80%
100%
1992 1995 1998 2001 2004 2007 2010 2013 2016 2019 2022 2025
Reporting dealers Non-financial customers
Other financial institutions
$779
$1
,219
$152
Other Financial Institutions
(including PTFs)
Non-Financial Institutions
Daily average turnover (USD Billion)

Source : Deutsche Bank, BIS Triennial Survey
5. Electronic communication networks (ECNs):  While prime brokerage has
facilitated client access to primary FX trading venues (EBS/Reuters ), numerous
secondary venues, such as Currenex and LMAX, have also emerged as a result of
competition driven by technological advances. This has enabled clients (non-
banks) to both provide and consume liquidity through limit orders or RFS/RFQ
model.
Beyond these venues, futures exchanges and dark pools are other alternative

liquidity sources. Exchanges utilise centralized limit order books with standardised
products, while dark pools operate with hidden order books, matching buy and sell
interest at a venue-calculated midpoint. BGC MidFX and FXSpotStream(FSS)
MidMatch are prominent examples of FX dark pools.
The rise of secondary and alternative trading venues has also changed how banks
manage inventory risk. Banks also utilise multiple venues for hedging client trades.

Crucially, the inter-dealer market is no longer exclusive to banks; some clients now
also provide liquidity through primary, secondary, and alternative venues.
1.5.2 Execution styles: voices versus electronic trading
This section explores the various FX execution styles, adhering to the Bank for
International Settlements (BIS) definitions for the dealer-client segment and the
inter-dealer segment.
Outer tier: Dealer-client segment
The two main styles of execution in the dealer-client (outer tier) segment are: Voice

and Electronic (BIS Triennial Survey). Each of these can further be classified as
direct or indirect. As per BIS, they are defined as follows:
1.  Voice-direct (telephone): Trades originated in person, by phone, by telefax
or through general messaging systems (eg Outlook, Gmail or Yahoo mail)
regardless of how trades are subsequently matched, and not
intermediated by a third party.
A Request for Stream (RFS) allows a
liquidity consumer to receive a continuous

flow of quotes for a specified size and
duration, such as a trading day. This
functions as a continuous Request for
Quote (RFQ), providing real-time price
updates for the desired transaction.
Reporting dealers

### Page 23

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 23
2.  Voice-indirect (prime-broker): Trade agreed by a voice method and
intermediated by a third party (eg a voice broker).
3.  Electronic-direct (SDP): Trades executed via an electronic trading system,
not intermediated by a third party. These include transactions originated
through specific messaging systems that are part of trading platforms. This
covers single dealer platforms. It also includes direct API streams:

Bloomberg Chat.
4.  Electronic-indirect (MDP/ECN): Trades executed via an electronic medium,
a third party electronic platform (eg via a matching system). Here, we have
multiple platforms that stream prices (RFS/RFQ), run a central limit order
book, or matching buy and sell interest at a venue-calculated midpoint.
Figure 15 highlights the different platforms available where multi dealer
platforms are primary RFS/RFQ focussed while ECNs do both live

streaming and matching.
Figure 15: Rise of the machines Part II – electronification of
dealer-client segment – current market structure
Source : Deutsche Bank
Figure 16 highlights the impact of electronification on FX markets, revealing a
A Request for Stream (RFS) allows a
liquidity consumer to receive a continuous
flow of quotes for a specified size and
duration, such as a trading day. This
functions as a continuous Request for
Quote (RFQ), providing real-time price

updates for the desired transaction.
Single dealer platform (SDP): Bank
developed single-dealer platforms (SDPs)
to facilitate direct electronic trading with
clients.
Multi-dealer platform (MDP): Allows clients
to request quotes (RFQs) from multiple
dealers at once. Example of MDPs include
but not limited to FXconnect, FXall, 360T.
Electronic Communication Network (ECN):
Primary, secondary and alternative trading
venues are collectively referred to as ECN.

### Page 24

The Currency Book
Page 24 Deutsche Bank AG
substantial increase in electronic trading in recent years. Notably, the growth of
third-party venues has significantly outpaced that of single-bank dealer platforms
(Figure 17). These third-party venues provide price streaming aggregation
technology and typically charge a pre-trade brokerage fee to liquidity providers.
Figure 16: Share of FX spot trading using electronic
methods has been on the rise
0
500

1
000
1500
2000
2500
2013 2016 2019 2022 2025
Average  daily volume (USD Billion)
Voice Electronic
Source :Deutsche Bank, BIS Triennial Survey
Figure 17: More than 100% growth in e-spot trading via
third party intermediaries (MDPs/Secondary Venues)
$281
$428
$325
0%
50%
1
00%
150%
200%
250%
Multi-dealer platforms
(MDPs)/Secondary
venues
Single-dealer platforms
(SDPs)
Primary venues
(EBS/Reuters)
% increase in daily avg spot trading volumes/Average

daily
volume in USD billion (2013 - 2025)
Source :Deutsche Bank, BIS Triennial Survey
Inner tier: Inter-dealer segment
For trades that are not internalized (settled across own books), dealers can choose
between voice or electronic trading to manage remaining inventory. While
traditionally relying on primary venues like EBS/Reuters, they now also have the
option
of hedging through secondary or alternative venues. This expanded choice,
along with increased internalisation, contributes to the observed decline in inter-

dealer platform activity (Figure 17).
1.5.3 Trading Venues: Anonymity and Liquidity
Different trading venues can be distinguished based on their offerings in terms of
two key characteristics: pre-trade anonymity and liquidity firmness (Chaboud et al.,
2023). Pre-trade anonymity refers to the degree to which counterparties remain
unknown to each other before a trade is executed. Liquidity firmness, on the other
hand, describes the certainty of execution at a quoted price.

Pre-trade anonymity: The level of anonymity can range from fully disclosed to fully
anonymous. Multi-dealer platforms (MDPs), acting as aggregators of dealer
liquidity, typically operate on a fully disclosed basis. Clients, both financial
institutions and corporations, submit requests for quote (RFQs) via the platform to
multiple dealers, revealing their identity before trade execution. Similarly, bank-
owned single-dealer platforms also function with full disclosure, as the bank dealer

knows the identity of the client submitting the RFQ.
At the other end, primary venues running a centralized limit order book (such as
EBS/Reuters) generally operate on a fully anonymous basis. The displayed orders
do not show a source and all participants can be matched based on the typical price
and time priority rules of a CLOB. However, it is important to note that unlike
exchanges, this still preserves bilateral relationship of an OTC market structure

### Page 25

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 25
since only those that have established bilateral credit relationships, either directly
or via their PBs can participate on such venues. Exchange venues, on the other
hand, provide the highest possible level of pre-trade (and post-trade) anonymity,
basically by definition, as the exchange is the counterparty to each trade.
This anonymity stems from the exchange acting as the central counterparty to every
trade, effectively shielding the identities of the ultimate buyers and sellers. This

based on specific characteristics or trading styles. This allows participants to select
counterparties based on factors like execution quality, creating a tiered system of
interaction.
Liquidity firmness: The firmness of liquidity in FX trading, meaning the certainty of
execution at a quoted price, is significantly influenced by the practice of "last look."
This practice allows liquidity providers (LPs) a brief window, typically milliseconds,
to review a trade request before accepting or rejecting it (Oomen, 2016; Cartea,

Jaimungal, and Walton, 2019).
Last look was initially developed to address challenges posed by network latencies,
platform multiplicity, and varying technological sophistication among market
participants. Its acceptable use includes near-instantaneous checks for credit
availability and price validity. However, more controversial applications involve
imposing additional hold times before trade confirmation.
Liquidity on primary venues is generally considered firm, as last look is prohibited.

Conversely, last look is widely employed on secondary venues and universally
available on MDPs and SDPs, where LPs retain the option to use it. Consequently,
liquidity on these platforms is viewed as less firm, introducing uncertainty
regarding trade execution upon hitting a quoted price.
1.5.4 Current market structure challenges
The adoption of electronic trading has generally enhanced FX market quality.
Benefits include increased pre-trade transparency, improved operational efficiency

through electronic clearing and settlement, and tighter bid-ask spreads and lower
intraday volatility in the spot market.
Figure 18 and Figure 19, which track G10 FX high-frequency realized volatility and
top-of-the-book spreads respectively, both calculated using one-minute mid-price
changes, indicate a downward trend in these metrics. This suggests an
improvement in FX market quality over time. The sustained decrease in spreads
over time reflects intensified competition for client business in the FX market. The

proliferation of trading venues has fostered a competitive environment among
liquidity providers, driving them towards consistently narrower, approaching zero,
spreads.
A Request for Stream (RFS) allows a
liquidity consumer to receive a continuous
flow of quotes for a specified size and
duration, such as a trading day. This
functions as a continuous Request for
Quote (RFQ), providing real-time price
updates for the desired transaction.
Single dealer platform (SDP): Bank

developed single-dealer platforms (SDPs)
to facilitate direct electronic trading with
clients.
Multi-dealer platform (MDP): Allows clients
to request quotes (RFQs) from multiple
dealers at once. Example of MDPs include
but not limited to FXconnect, FXall, 360T.
Centralised limit order book (CLOB): It is a
centralised electronic trading platform used
to match buy and sell orders.
Single dealer platform (SDP): Bank
developed single-dealer platforms (SDPs)

to facilitate direct electronic trading with
clients.
Multi-dealer platform (MDP): Allows clients
to request quotes (RFQs) from multiple
dealers at once. Example of MDPs include
but not limited to FXconnect, FXall, 360T.
Last look: This practice allows liquidity
providers (LPs) a brief window, typically
milliseconds, to review a trade request
before accepting or rejecting it.

### Page 26

The Currency Book
Page 26 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 18: High-frequency G10 FX vol has fallen over time
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
2001
2002
200
3
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
201
1
2012
201
3
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
202
2
2023
2024
2025
2026
High-frequency realized volatility
(annualized in %)
Source : Deutsche Bank, Reuters. Daily HF realised vol= square root of sum of squared intraday price
changes. Annual vol= Daily vol * sqrt(252)

Figure 19: Top of the book spread has also fallen over time
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
2026
Spread (in bps)
Source : Deutsche Bank, Reuters
Spread=(Ask-Bid)/(Ask+Mid)/2
However, the current structure is not without its flaws. We highlight a few key areas
of research for our future publications.
The FX Liquidity Mirage: Myth or Reality?

The fragmentation of the FX market, driven by the decline of inter-dealer electronic
brokerage and the rise of diverse  trading venues, particularly in the dealer-to-
customer segment, presents significant challenges for liquidity assessment. The
proliferation of platforms can create a deceptive appearance of increased liquidity,
a "liquidity  mirage," as the  same liquidity  might be reflected across  multiple
interconnected venues.  Executing a trade on one platform  can trigger a

simultaneous reduction in liquidity  on others, leading to an overestimation  of
available liquidity when simply aggregating displayed market depth.
Further, accessing liquidity  across this fragmented landscape can be
technologically challenging and costly due to latency issues and access fees. While
aggregated depth  might suggest the  feasibility of executing  a large order,
attempting to do so could significantly impact prices as liquidity is tapped across

various platforms.
Accurately measuring FX liquidity requires a more sophisticated approach than
simply aggregating depth. Metrics like effective spreads (inclusive of slippage and
fees) and price impact offer a more realistic representation of transaction costs and
market depth. Analysing volume  distribution across venues can help identify
concentrations of genuine liquidity, but practical constraints such as technological
limitations and access fees must also be factored into the assessment.

Electronification of markets and flash crashes
The increasing attention given to flash crashes in recent years has coincided with
the electronification of financial markets. Computer algorithms are now used to
automatically make trading decisions, submit orders, and manage those orders
after submission. Algorithmic trading (AT) now contributes to more than 70% of
trading volumes in equity and FX markets  (Hendershott, 2012 and BIS, 2018).
Recent flash crashes have triggered an important policy debate over the merits of

algorithmic trading in financial markets. As argued in Deutsche Bank
research ( Grover et al., 2019), establishing a direct link between flash
crashes and electronification is far from straightforward. First, there is no
universal agreement
Algorithmic trading: Automated
transactions where a computer algorithm
decides the order-submission strategy.

### Page 27

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 27
on what constitutes a flash crash event, though recently Christensen et al. (2017)
have made some important contributions on this topic. Second, limited high-
frequency data makes it difficult to identify flash crash events going back in time,
in turn making it difficult to compare the frequency of such events with changes in
market structure. Third, there is a risk of confounding the presence of flash crashes

and market electronification. Market automation allows trading to take place
during highly illiquid hours with limited human presence, raising the question of
whether flash crashes as a phenomenon are in any case only possible due to the
electronified nature of the market - the alternative in previous eras being a complete
market breakdown where no trades took place.
New intermediaries and Bank dealers: Disruption or Evolution?
Changes in the composition of market intermediaries in the FX spot market also

raise interesting research questions.
1.Third party multi-dealer platforms : Multi-dealer platforms (MDPs) offer price
aggregation technology and charge liquidity providers a pre-trade brokerage fee,
enabling clients to access liquidity from multiple dealers. However, MDPs do not
assume inventory risk. Increased competition among dealers, driven in part by
MDPs, has compressed spreads, reducing bank dealer profit margins. This
presents a challenge for banks, who face declining profits while still incurring MDP

brokerage fees and bearing inventory risk from client trades executed through
these platforms. Thus, potentially reducing the bank's risk-taking capacity.
2. Non-bank firms: Bank dealers now face competition from principal trading firms
(PTFs) in providing FX liquidity. These lightly capitalised, non-bank PTFs leverage
speed and cross-asset correlations to manage their risk. The rise of multiple trading
venues, in contrast to the pre-electronification era where banks primarily relied on

platforms like EBS/Reuters for inventory management, adds another layer of
comple
xity. This fragmentation makes it challenging for banks to discern true
liquidity from the "liquidity mirage" of aggregated, but potentially inaccessible,
depth across various platforms.
Has the risk-bearing capacity of FX market intermediaries, in total, changed as a
result of (1) and (2)? Has this affected market volatility or the frequency of flash
events?
For example, during the initial stages of the Covid crisis in March 2020 (Figure 20),

top of the book bid-ask spreads in the FX market widened significantly. For
instance, the spread for USD/JPY doubled from 1 basis point (bp) to 2 bps, while the
spread for GBP/USD increased from 1.5 bps to 3 bps over a 10-day period see
Grover, (2020).
Multi-dealer platform (MDP): Allows clients
to request quotes (RFQs) from multiple
dealers at once. Example of MDPs include
but not limited to FXconnect, FXall, 360T.

### Page 28

The Currency Book
Page 28 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 20: FX liquidity dropped significantly during Covid Peak (March 2020)
0.00
0.2
0
0.40
0.60
0.80
1.00
Systematic liquidity in FX
Covid Peak
Source : Deutsche Bank
Systematic FX Liquidity is computed as scaled first principal component of Z-scores across measures and currencies. Here, liquidity measures
include but not limited to top of book spreads, order book depth, price impact etc. A higher score implies higher liquidity. For more details, please

see FX Liquidity Snapshot: Introducing the DB FX liquidity monitor
New intermediaries: Is FX Price Discovery Broken?
FX market fragmentation raises key questions about price discovery. Have primary
CLOBs, despite lower trading volumes, retained their central role? Or has it shifted,
potentially to futures markets, given the smaller CLOB size and the increased
influence of PTFs using futures-based spot pricing? Analysing latency, order flow,
market impact, and correlations across venues is crucial to understanding price

discovery in this evolving landscape.
Clearing in FX: Balancing Benefits and Risks in the Modern Market
Regulations like the Standardised Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR)
and the Uncleared Margin Rules (UMR) are increasing capital and margin
requirements for non-cleared FX derivatives, making bilateral trading more costly
and complex. This is driving some market participants to consider clearing a portion
of their FX exposure through CCPs.

Besides exchange-based clearing for standardised FX products using CLOBs,
initiatives are emerging to facilitate clearing for bilateral trades like block trades and
Exchange For Physical (EFPs). Block trades allow private negotiation of FX futures/
options with later clearing house reporting, subject to size/time thresholds. EFPs
enable migration of OTC FX exposures to cleared positions, enhancing risk
management, operational efficiency, and access to diverse liquidity pools. These

initiatives broaden the scope of FX clearing. For more details, please see Grover
(2025).
The potential advantages of increased FX clearing include enhanced operational
efficiency, potential margin benefits compared to some bilateral arrangements
under SA-CCR, expanded counterparty access, and regulatory support. However,
drawbacks remain, including increased clearing fees, reduced flexibility in trade
Multi-dealer platform (MDP): Allows clients
to request quotes (RFQs) from multiple

dealers at once. Example of MDPs include,
but not limited to FXconnect, FXall, 360T.
Centralized limit order book (CLOB): It is a
centralised electronic trading platform used
to match buy and sell orders.
Central Counterparty (CCP): It is a financial
market infrastructure that reduces bilateral
counterparty risk by acting as the
intermediary to both sides of a trade and
managing the resulting credit exposure
through collateral and default-management

mechanisms.
CLS is an independent multi-currency
settlement system for FX transactions.

### Page 29

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 29
execution and settlement, potential market fragmentation from diverse clearing
venues, and the operational challenges of adapting to new technologies and
processes. The future of FX clearing depends on the evolving balance between
these advantages and disadvantages.
Is FX Settlement Still a Concern?
Settlement risk (Herstatt risk) is the risk of paying out a currency in an FX transaction
without receiving the purchased currency. This arises from separate payments in

different currencies, often settling across time zones. PvP (Payment versus
Payment) mitigates this risk by ensuring simultaneous currency exchange,
eliminating the possibility of one party paying while the other defaults. PvP is crucial
for FX transactions, especially those settling across time zones, where settlement
failures are more likely. CLS operates a PvP settlement service for eligible FX
transactions. However, not all FX trades settle through CLS. CLS settlement is not

universal due to currency eligibility (not all currencies are included), cost
(membership and transaction fees), operational requirements, the availability of
alternative methods (like bilateral netting), and internal settlement of intra-group
transactions.

### Page 30

The Currency Book
Page 30 Deutsche Bank AG
Introduction
Exchange rates are famously difficult to forecast. Why can currencies move sharply
when macroeconomic  fundamentals appear unchanged?  Why do apparently
compelling exchange-rate models so often fail out of sample? This chapter provides
an overview of FX drivers over the short, medium, and long-run horizon. We rely on
academic evidence, Deutsche Bank research and practitioner experience to show

that while there  is no single, universally  reliable model of exchange-rate
determination, there is a compelling set of frameworks and drivers that can
help explain and forecast exchange rate movements over time.
2.1 Why the efficient market hypothesis breaks down in FX
As the world’s largest and most liquid financial market, foreign exchange is often
regarded as a particularly strong candidate for satisfying the efficient market
hypothesis. This states that the current exchange rate fully reflects all publicly

available information and it should not be possible to use that information
systematically to earn abnormal risk-adjusted profits. In his seminal paper Fama
(1970) identified three conditions that would be sufficient to ensure market
efficiency:
(a)there are no transaction costs;
(b)all available information is freely available to all market participants; and
(c)all participants agree on the implications of that information for current
prices and the underlying model of the economy.

Omitted from these conditions is, however, a fourth and critically important one that
is only left implicit in Fama's paper:

### Page 31

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 31
(d) a sufficient number of market participants are profit-seeking and are able
to move the market rapidly to equilibrium valuations.
FX market structure itself provides perhaps the most compelling reason why the
mechanism supporting market efficiency in FX may be significantly weaker than is
commonly assumed. Earlier in this book we presented evidence from several sources
suggesting that FX turnover is divided roughly evenly between transactions

motivated by profit and transactions undertaken for commercial, hedging,
institutional or policy purposes. Moreover, with the expansion of passive investment
and the increasing importance of regulatory, mandate and balance sheet
constraints, the relative importance of unconstrained, return-seeking risk capital
may be declining.
A high share of non-profit-motivated or price-insensitive demand has important
implications. If transactional flows are large relative to the capital available to

arbitrageurs, prices may then reflect not only expectations of future fundamentals,
but also hedging demand, corporate cash flows, reserve-management decisions,
benchmark rebalancing, regulation and the balance sheet capacity of
intermediaries. These forces will generate persistent deviations from conventional
measures of fundamental value and predictable returns as compensation for
providing liquidity and bearing inventory or balance sheet risk.

Note that the market inefficiency argument does not require non-speculative
participants to be irrational or poorly informed. It rests on the simpler observation
that, unlike equities and bonds, currencies are required to complete a broad range of
underlying economic transactions unrelated to FX profit-seeking. Other
participants may seek to maximise returns but be constrained by leverage limits,
risk budgets, benchmarks, regulation or investment mandates. The presence of

such participants weakens the practical arbitrage mechanism through which
information is presumed to be incorporated into prices. Where non-profit-
motivated flows are large and the capital of informed speculators is limited,
exchange-rate determination is likely to depend on a broader and more distinctive
set of forces than in traditional asset markets.
2.2 Underlying principles of exchange rate determination
First, like all asset prices, the exchange rate is forward-looking: today's level

embeds expectations about the entire future path of fundamentals and of risk
premia. Engel and West (2005) formalised this, showing that in a rational-
expectations present-value model when fundamentals are shifting over time the
exchange rate will behave almost exactly like a random walk under certain
conditions. This is not because fundamentals are irrelevant, but because the
exchange rate optimally aggregates expected future fundamentals. This reconciles

the empirical failure of fundamentals to forecast currencies with the belief that
currencies are ultimately driven by fundamentals.
Second, exchange rates are not purely driven by macroeconomic but also financial
drivers. In the traditional academic paradigm, the exchange rate equilibrated goods
and money markets. In the modern paradigm, it is set at the margin by financial
intermediaries and investors operating in imperfect, segmented capital markets

subject to balance sheet constraints and time-varying risk-bearing capacity. This
shift, associated with Gabaix and Maggiori (2015), Itskhoki and Mukhin (2021),
Jiang, Krishnamurthy and Lustig (2021) and the broader intermediary-asset-pricing
literature explains not only long-standing "puzzles" of exchange-rate determination
but also begins to explain phenomena like the cross-currency basis.

### Page 32

The Currency Book
Page 32 Deutsche Bank AG
2.3 Time horizons of exchange rate determination
Predicting exchange rates is famously difficult. A helpful organising principle, and
the one that structures the remainder of this chapter, is to think about exchange rate
determination across three horizons:
n In the short run (intraday to a few weeks), exchange rates are dominated by
order flow, positioning, sentiment, risk appetite, data releases and
technical/trend-following behaviour.

n In the medium run (months to a couple of years), cyclical macro forces —
interest rate differentials, the monetary policy cycle, relative growth, the
current account and capital flows pull currencies around their long-run
anchors.
n In the long run (several years and beyond), fundamentals reassert
themselves: relative prices (PPP), productivity (Balassa-Samuelson), terms
of trade, and net international investment positions shape the equilibrium

real exchange rate.
In the next few sections we will proceed by horizon and by mechanism. We begin
with the long-run anchors (PPP, productivity, terms of trade, external balances and
equilibrium-exchange-rate concepts), then turn to the medium-run parity
conditions and macro models, then to the short-run microstructure of the market
(order flow, positioning, options and technical analysis). We then review
forecasting performance tests, before moving on to modern financial theories of

the exchange rate, central bank intervention, currency regimes and crises, and
finally a set of frontier topics — machine learning and digital currencies.
Figure 21: Overview of Exchange Rate Determination
Source : Deutsche Bank

### Page 33

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 33
n Absolute PPP says that once converted into a common currency, a
representative basket of goods should cost the same everywhere; the
nominal exchange rate
should equal the ratio of national price levels. This
absolute PPP form has little empirical support for reasons discussed later.
n Relative PPP says that the change in the exchange rate should offset the
difference in inflation rates, so that the real exchange rate (the nominal rate

adjusted for relative prices) is stationary and mean-reverting around a
constant.
The real exchange rate can be written simply as:
q = s + p* − p
Where s is the nominal exchange rate (domestic price of foreign currency, in logs),
p is the domestic price level and p* the foreign price level. PPP holds in the long run
if q reverts to a constant mean.
The PPP puzzle and the half-life debate
The central empirical problem, crystallised by Rogoff (1996) as the "PPP puzzle", is

FX deviations from PPP are highly persistent and volatile. In Rogoff's (1996, p. 648)
own words, "consensus estimates for the rate at which PPP deviations damp...
suggest a half-life of three to five years, seemingly far too long to be explained by
nominal rigidities." Such slow reversion is very hard to reconcile with nominal price
stickiness that lasts one to two years; something other than sticky goods prices
must be driving the persistence.
The survey by Taylor and Taylor (2004, Journal of Economic Perspectives)

documents how the profession's view on PPP has evolved, concluding that by the
early 2000s "the idea of long-run PPP now enjoys perhaps its strongest support in
more than thirty years." Two methodological advances drove this:
1.  Panel and long-horizon data greatly increased the power to reject the
random-walk hypothesis and detect mean reversion.
2.  More importantly, nonlinear mean reversion modelling is used: because
arbitrage in goods markets is subject to transaction costs, trade barriers

and large non-traded sectors, the real exchange rate reverts faster the
further it is from equilibrium, and can wander almost freely within a "band
of inaction". Once nonlinearity is modelled, estimated half-lives fall and
PPP reversion looks far more consistent with economic theory. The more
recent survey by Vo and Vo (2023, Journal of Economic Surveys) confirms
the long-run validity of PPP and a 3-5 year half-life.
Practical implications and DB house research

For investors, the operational lesson is that PPP is a poor timing tool but a powerful
valuation anchor. Deviations can persist for years, an overvalued currency can
become more overvalued, but they do eventually correct, and the correction is
exploitable if the holding period is long enough. This is precisely what Deutsche
The concept
Purchasing power parity is the oldest and most intuitive theory of the exchange rate.
2.4 Purchasing Power Parity and the long-run real exchange rate

### Page 34

The Currency Book
Page 34 Deutsche Bank AG
Bank's own back-testing confirms.
Grover (2025), in a study of long-term FX value investing, finds that PPP-based
valuation signals generate economically significant mean-reversion signals whose
performance improves as the holding period lengthens, peaking at around 24
months - consistent with a PPP misalignment half-life in excess of two years,
echoing Lothian and Taylor (2000), Ricci et al. (2013) and Winkler (2017).

A cross-sectional portfolio that goes long the most undervalued and short the most
overvalued currencies on a 12-month hold delivers a Sharpe ratio of 0.60 on the PPP
signal after costs, with PPP working best in G10. Volatility-adjusted valuation
signals outperform simple sign-based signals, particularly in G10. Notably, Grover
(2025) also finds that valuation models underperformed over the two years to early
2025, especially in G10, plausibly because cyclical drivers and extreme macro

divergence (aggressive and desynchronised hiking cycles) dominated valuation
over that window, a reminder that valuation is a long-horizon strategy that can
suffer extended drawdowns.
Figure 22: Valuations ranked
KRW
JPYN
OK
CLP
SEK
CAD
CNY
TWD
IDR
INR
BRL
ZAR
TRY
PEN
ARS
EURMYRNZDSGDUAHPHP
USD
GBP
COP
HUF
AUD
THB
CHF
PLN
CZK
RON
MXN
RUB
ILS
DBeer
FEER
PPP
Average
larger distance  from
cent
re equivalent to
a cheaper currency
World’s
cheapest
currency

More
exp
ensive
Most
expensive
Source : Haver Analytics, Deutsche Bank
Figure 23: EURUSD versus PPP
0.6
0.8
1.
0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
73 76 79 82 85 88 91 94 97 00 03 06 09 12 15 18 21 24
PPP EUR/USD
20% band
EUR/USD
Source : Refinitiv Workspace Datastream, Deutsche Bank Research
Relative PPP does not imply that real exchange rates must remain constant over all
horizons. Even when nominal exchange rates broadly adjust to differences in
national inflation rates, equilibrium real exchange rates can drift as the relative price

of domestic and foreign consumption baskets changes. Such movements may
reflect persistent differences in productivity growth between tradable and non-
tradable sectors, shifts in the terms of trade, changes in trade barriers and
consumption preferences, pricing-to-market, or movements in international
capital flows and risk premia.
Real exchange rate appreciation or depreciation should therefore not automatically
be interpreted as a deviation from equilibrium or evidence against PPP; it may

instead represent an adjustment in the equilibrium real exchange rate itself. The
best-known explanation for such structural movements is the Balassa–Samuelson
effect, to which we turn in the following section, before considering other forces
that can generate persistent cross-country differences in prices and real exchange
rates.

### Page 35

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 35
2.5 Productivity, the Balassa-Samuelson effect and terms of trade
Balassa-Samuelson
Absolute PPP based on broad consumer-price baskets fails partly because those
baskets include large non-traded components (services, housing). These
components cannot be arbitraged over  borders. The Balassa-Samuelson (BS)
hypothesis provides the classic explanation for systematic trend deviations from
absolute PPP.
The logic is that countries that experience faster productivity growth in their traded-

goods sector can pay higher wages there; wage equalisation across sectors pushes
up wages, and hence prices, in the non-traded sector; this raises the country's
overall price level and appreciates its real exchange rate. Rich, high productivity
countries therefore have higher price levels and currencies that look "overvalued"
on a naive  PPP metric but are in fact  in equilibrium. Productivity convergence
should thus produce trend real appreciation in catching-up economies, or even in

developed economies with different productivity rates.
The empirical record on Balassa-Samuelson (BS) is mixed.  Egert, Halpern and
MacDonald (2006) and the survey by Tica and Druzic (2006) document that the
hypothesis has been tested dozens of times across scores of countries. They find
that the evidence is strongest for the intermediate links in the mechanism: richer or
more productive economies have higher relative prices, and faster tradable-sector

productivity growth is often associated with  rising non-tradable prices. Cross-
sectional tests are overwhelmingly supportive, while panel and time-series results
are more heterogeneous and sensitive to the countries, periods and econometric
specifications used.
Evidence for the full proposition, that productivity differentials reliably
explain aggregate real  exchange-rate appreciation, is considerably weaker,
in part because purchasing-power parity often fails even within the

tradable sector. Productivity catch-up tends to raise relative service prices and
can generate real appreciation, but its magnitude is highly uncertain and it is
rarely sufficient on its own to explain observed exchange-rate movements.
Terms of trade and commodity currencies
For commodity-exporting economies, the  terms of trade, the  price of exports
relative to imports, can be a more important driver of the real exchange rate than
productivity. A rise in the  world price of a country's main export  commodity

increases the purchasing power of its exports  and raises national  income and
wealth. Higher income increases domestic  demand, including for non-tradable
goods and services whose prices are determined locally. Because the prices of
internationally traded goods are more tightly  anchored by world markets, the
resulting rise in the relative price of non-tradables produces a real exchange-rate
appreciation.
This mechanism is sometimes associated with what is known as "Dutch disease".

In the classic framework, a commodity boom generates a spending  effect, as
higher national income raises demand and prices in the non-traded sector, and
potentially a resource-movement effect, as labour and capital shift toward  the
booming commodity  sector and away  from other tradable industries. Both

### Page 36

The Currency Book
Page 36 Deutsche Bank AG
channels tend to raise the relative price of non-tradables and appreciate the real
exchange rate. The resulting currency appreciation can in turn reduce the
competitiveness of other non-commodity exporters in the country.
Figure 24: Commodity terms of trade vs. commodity-currency real exchange rates for AUD and CAD
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
50
70
90
110
130
150
170
190
96 98 00 02 04 06
08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26

Citi Terms of Trade Index AUD Australia: Real Broad Effective Exch Rate (Avg, 2020=100)
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
96 98 00 02
04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
Citi Terms of Trade Index CAD Canada: Real Broad Effective Exch Rate (Avg, 2020=100)
Source : Deutsche Bank
Terms of trade commodity shocks should be distinguished from the Balassa–
Samuelson effect. Balassa–Samuelson attributes real appreciation to relatively

rapid productivity growth in the tradable sector: higher tradable-sector productivity
raises wages, which spill over into the non-tradable sector, increasing non-tradable
prices and appreciating the real exchange-rate. A commodity terms-of-trade shock
can produce a similar observable outcome but originates from an improvement in
export prices and national income rather than faster productivity.
Chen and Rogoff (2003) formalised the empirical importance of this mechanism for

“commodity currencies,” showing that the real exchange-rates of major
commodity exporters such as Australia , New Zealand and Canada have strong
long-run relationships with world
commodity prices.
A striking and much-cited result is the forecasting reversal in Chen, Rogoff and
Rossi (2010, Quarterly Journal of Economics): because exchange rates are forward-
looking asset prices that embed expectations about future fundamentals,
commodity-exporter exchange rates actually help predict world commodity prices,

more reliably than the reverse. The follow-up by Ferraro, Rogoff and Rossi (2015,
Journal of International Money and Finance) sharpens the caveat for practitioners:
the relationship between oil prices and the Canadian dollar is robust and strong at
the daily (contemporaneous) frequency but is fragile and largely disappears at the
monthly and quarterly horizons and out of sample. Commodity terms of trade are
a real-time co-movement story more than a forecasting tool. Terms of trade and the

BS effect are incorporated into our DBeer model, below.

### Page 37

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 37
2.6 External balances, net foreign assets and equilibrium exchange rate
concepts
The flow and stock approaches
Two related traditions link the exchange rate to a country's external position. The
flow (current account) approach holds that a currency must adjust to bring the
current account toward a sustainable level: persistent deficits require a weaker real
exchange rate to restore competitiveness. The stock (portfolio/net-foreign-asset)

approach emphasies that a country running deficits accumulates external
liabilities, and the real exchange rate must eventually be weak enough to generate
the trade surpluses that service them or strong enough, for creditor nations, to
permit the running down of surpluses. The policy and sell-side community
operationalises these ideas through equilibrium exchange-rate models, of which
there are three main families:
n The FEER (Fundamental Equilibrium Exchange Rate), (Williamson 1994)

and the closely related DEER (Desired EER) are normative,
macroeconomic-balance concepts: they identify the real effective
exchange rate consistent with the economy achieving internal balance (full
employment, target inflation) and external balance (a "sustainable" current
account) over the medium term. FEER requires an assumption about a
current account equilibrium and trade elasticities but is largely model-free
about the adjustment path. Such an approach is used as part of our FX

Valuation Snapshot.
n The BEER (Behavioural Equilibrium Exchange Rate), Clark and
MacDonald 1998) is essentially an econometric model. It regresses the
observed real exchange rate on a set of fundamentals, net foreign assets,
productivity/relative prices (Balassa-Samuelson), the terms of trade, and
real interest-rate differentials, and defines the equilibrium as the fitted
value, with the residual measuring misalignment. One of our proprietary
valuation frameworks use a BEER model, called DBeer. It uses terms of

trade, a productivity ratio and trade openness. Grover (2025) shows it
produces mean-reversion signals and that, in contrast to PPP, DBeer
performs better in emerging markets, where idiosyncratic and terms-of-
trade dynamics dominate, while PPP dominates in G10.
n The IMF’s External Balance Assessment (EBA), introduced in 2012, is not
a separate exchange rate theory so much as a framework that combines
three approaches. First, its principal current account model estimates an

underlying current account balance and compares it with a “norm”
consistent with economic fundamentals and policies set at their desired
levels. The resulting current account gap is then converted, using estimated
trade elasticities, into the real-exchange-rate adjustment that would be
required to close it. In this respect, the operational procedure is similar to a
FEER calculation, although the current-account norm is itself estimated
econometrically rather than imposed entirely outside the model. Second,

EBA also contains direct REER panel regressions that are closer in spirit to
the BEER approach, estimating the exchange rate implied by fundamentals
and desired policy settings. A third, external-sustainability approach
calculates the current-account balance needed to stabilise or move the net
foreign asset position towards an appropriate benchmark. IMF staff use the
three approaches as cross-checks and combine them with country-specific
evidence and judgement to arrive at an overall assessment of the current-

account and REER gaps.

### Page 38

The Currency Book
Page 38 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 25: Dbeer estimated over/undervaluation (%) versus USD across G10
and major EM currencies
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
CZK
MXN
ILS
PLN
RON
C
OP
HUF
RUB
CHF
UAH
THB
PEN
USD
AUD
EUR
SGD
GBP
NZD
MYR
SEK
PHP
ZAR
CN
Y
TRY
BRL
CAD
INR
TWD
NOK
ARS
IDR
CLP
KRW
JPY
DBeer misalignment  (%)
Overvalued
Undervalued
Source : Haver Analytics, Deutsche Bank
2.7 Medium-run macro models
The monetary model of exchange rates

The monetary approach treats the exchange rate as the relative price of two monies,
determined by money supplies, output (money demand) and interest rates. In
Dornbusch's (1976) sticky-price version this is how exchange rate overshooting is
generated. Because goods prices are sticky, a monetary expansion causes the
exchange rate to depreciate more than proportionately on impact before reverting,
explaining why exchange rates are more volatile than the underlying fundamentals.

The original monetary model dominated academic thinking in the 1970s but was
challenged by the forecasting failure documented by Meese and Rogoff (1983). It
nonetheless remains a useful framework for thinking about the exchange rate
consequences of relative monetary policy and the interest rate differential is a key
input used by FX market practitioners to this day.
Covered and uncovered interest parity, carry trades in FX
The relationship between interest rate differentials and exchange rates is one of the

most widely studied in academic research and has given birth to what are known
as the two "parity conditions".
n Covered interest parity (CIP) is an arbitrage relationship linking spot and
forward exchange rates to interest rates across currencies. It states that an
investor should earn the same return from investing in domestic cash as
from converting funds into a foreign currency, investing at the foreign
interest rate, and simultaneously using a forward contract to lock in the

exchange rate at which the proceeds will be converted back. If the two
hedged returns differed, investors could borrow in the lower-returning
market and invest in the higher-returning one, using the forward market to
eliminate exchange-rate risk, until the arbitrage opportunity disappeared.

### Page 39

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 39
CIP held almost exactly in the data until 2008 (see later section).
n Uncovered interest parity (UIP) is a looser condition: it says the expected
change in the exchange rate should equal the interest rate differential, so
that a high-interest-rate currency should be expected to depreciate by
exactly enough to offset its yield advantage. UIP is tested through the Fama
(1984) regression of realised exchange-rate changes on the interest

differential (or forward premium):
Δs = α + β(i − i*) + ε
Where Δs is the change in the base currency and i is the base-currency interest rate.
UIP predicts β = 1. The overwhelming empirical finding for decades was that the
estimated β was not only below one but frequently negative. This is what is known
as the forward premium puzzle in academia or as the "carry trade" in daily market
practice: high-yield currencies tend, on average, to appreciate rather than

depreciate, which is exactly what makes the carry trade profitable. This is one of the
most robust anomalies in international finance.
Figure 26: Illustration of FX carry trade
Source :Deutsche Bank
The literature offers several competing explanations for the existence of carry
trades. One interpretation is that carry returns represent compensation for bearing
state-dependence or crash risk rather than a free arbitrage. Brunnermeier, Nagel
and Pedersen (2009) show that carry returns are negatively skewed: high-yielding

currencies can fall sharply and funding currencies appreciate when risk appetite
and market  liquidity deteriorate. Such episodes can trigger simultaneous
unwinding of leveraged positions, amplifying exchange-rate
movements. Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling and Schrimpf (2012) similarly find that
high interest rate currencies tend to perform poorly following unexpected
increases in global FX volatility, while low  interest rate funding currencies
provide insurance in precisely those adverse states.

### Page 40

The Currency Book
Page 40 Deutsche Bank AG
The broad conclusion is therefore more nuanced than a simple rejection of UIP.
Carry trades have historically earned positive average returns, but those returns are
negatively skewed, perform poorly during volatility and liquidity shocks, and
appear partly related to global risk exposure. At the same time, conventional
models have struggled to explain fully the magnitude and time variation of the
returns.

Taylor-rule fundamentals and interest rate differentials
In its most recent form, monetary modelling of exchange rates replaces money
supplies with the monetary policy reaction function and interest rates. If central
banks set interest rates according to a Taylor rule (responding to inflation and the
output gap), then the interest differential and hence, via UIP, the expected exchange
rate change can be expressed in terms of relative inflation and output gaps. Engel

and West (2005), Molodtsova and Papell (2009) and Rossi (2013) showed that
Taylor-rule fundamentals can help model exchange rates. With Rossi finding that
Taylor-rule and net-foreign-asset fundamentals as the most promising predictors.
The strong academic support of monetary exchange-rate modelling is reflected in
the strong emphasis on interest rate differentials in market practitioner analysis.
Relative interest rates remain among the most closely watched drivers of exchange

rates among market participants, but the distinction between nominal and real
differentials is critical:
n Nominal interest-rate differentials determine the carry earned on an
unhedged currency position and therefore matter directly for short-run
portfolio allocation; in practice, currencies often respond most strongly to
revisions in the expected path of policy rates rather than to the current
policy rate itself.
n For medium-run valuation, however, the more relevant concept is the

expected ex ante real interest-rate differential, the nominal rate adjusted for
expected inflation, because it measures the relative return on purchasing
power. A high nominal yield generated by tighter monetary policy and a
higher real rate should, other things equal, support a currency, whereas the
same nominal yield caused by high expected inflation may provide little
support and can instead be associated with depreciation.
This distinction is central to Frankel’s (1979) real-interest-differential model,

although the empirical relationship is not stable. Meese and Rogoff (1988) find little
robust connection between real exchange rates and real-rate differentials, while
Baxter (1994) found a stronger relationship at business-cycle and lower
frequencies. The practical conclusion is that nominal differentials matter most for
carry and near-term policy pricing, while expected real rate differentials are the
more meaningful, though still imperfect, guide to medium-run exchange-rate

valuation.

### Page 41

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 41
Figure 27: EUR/USD and the nominal interest rate
differential
0.8
0.9
1
1
.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23 25
5yr Nominal rate differential
EURUSD (rhs)
0.8
0.9
1
1
.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP
Figure 28: EUR/USD and the real interest rate differential
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
0.8
0.9
1
1
.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
-3
-2.5
-2
-1.5

-1
-0.5
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
Market-implied 5-yr real rate differential
EURUSD (rhs)
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP
Current accounts, capital flows and the basic balance
Current accounts provide one of the clearest medium-run anchors for exchange
rates because they summarise the gap between national saving and domestic
investment. Persistent current-account deficits imply that domestic consumption
exceeds output and must be financed by net capital inflows, while persistent

surpluses imply the opposite. In the medium run, those external positions cannot
drift without consequence: a weaker net foreign asset position must eventually be
stabilised through stronger future net exports, favourable valuation effects on the
external portfolio, or both, and the exchange rate is one of the key relative prices
through which that adjustment is delivered (Chinn and Prasad, 2003; Gourinchas
and Rey, 2007).
The composition of capital flows matters as much as the headline balance. Portfolio

equity and bond flows are typically more sensitive to relative returns, hedging
demand and global risk appetite, so marginal reallocations in these categories can
produce sizeable currency moves. FDI is usually the stickier component of external
financing, reflecting the partial illiquidity of direct ownership. For FX, a deficit
financed by long-horizon FDI is therefore very different from one financed by return-
seeking portfolio debt or equity inflows that can reverse quickly when relative yields

or risk sentiment change (Hau and Rey, 2006; Albuquerque, 2003; Gabaix and
Maggiori, 2015; Greenwood et al., 2023).
Large changes in the trading regime can also shift the expected path of the external
balance abruptly. Events such as Brexit, the imposition of tariffs or a major trade
agreement can alter expected export demand, import costs, investment and the
location of production, with potentially significant consequences for the
equilibrium exchange rate. Importantly, currencies are forward-looking asset

prices: they need not wait for a trade shock to appear in realised current account
data. Once markets assign a sufficiently high probability to a future change in trade
arrangements, the exchange rate can adjust immediately in anticipation of its
expected effects on future trade flows, investment and national income. The
sizeable adjustment in sterling around the 2016 Brexit referendum is a prominent
example of the exchange rate moving well before the full effects of the new trading

relationship became visible in the balance of payments data.

### Page 42

The Currency Book
Page 42 Deutsche Bank AG
Source : BIS, Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank
For medium-run FX analysis, the key issue is whether saving-investment trends and
the composition of external financing are moving in a currency supportive or
negative direction. Economies with chronically low saving relative to investment
are more likely, over time, to require a weaker real exchange rate to generate the
external adjustment needed to service a larger stock of foreign liabilities, whereas

economies with excess saving and stronger external balance sheets can sustain
firmer currencies for longer (Chinn and Prasad, 2003; Gourinchas and Rey, 2007;
Lane and Milesi-Ferretti, 2004).
Practitioners often construct measures of the basic balance to assess shifts in
external financing and the underlying demand for a currency. A narrow measure
typically combines the current account balance with net foreign direct investment,
on the grounds that these are among the slowest-moving components of the

balance of payments. Broader measures may also include longer-term portfolio
flows, particularly bond and equity investment. These indicators are useful but
incomplete, because other financial flows can at times dominate exchange rate
dynamics. This is especially true for currencies used extensively as funding
currencies: during the 2000s, for example, large-scale borrowing in the low-
yielding yen generated substantial capital outflows, while the unwinding of those

positions periodically produced sharp yen appreciation.
90
100
110
120
Jan 15 Jul 16 Jan 18 Jul 19 Jan 21 Jul 22 Jan 24 Jul 25
GBP TWI
Brexit referendum
Figure 29: GBP moved well before the full effects of Brexit
took place

### Page 43

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 43
Figure 30: Basic balance metrics are loosely correlated to currencies
65
75
85
95
105
1
15
125
135
145
-8%
-7%
-6%
-5%
-4%
-3%
-2%
-1%
0%
95 97 99 01 03 05 07 09 11 13 15 17 19 21 23
US narrow basic balance as a
% of G
DP (lhs)
Trade-weighted
dol
lar (rhs)
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP
The importance of hedge ratios as a medium-run FX driver
Alongside the current account and portfolio flow channels discussed above, the

hedging decision on existing foreign asset stocks may become a first-order driver
of exchange rates. The mechanism is a stock adjustment one: when a non-US
pension fund or insurer holds unhedged US securities, a decision to raise its hedge
ratio does not require selling the underlying bond or equity, but it does generate a
flow of dollar sales to enact the forward hedge that is then rolled in perpetuity.
Because the pool of cross-border foreign ownership of assets is very large, even

modest shifts in the desired aggregate hedge ratios of foreign investors can
dominate other flows in the balance of payments. The medium-run character of the
channel comes from its persistence: hedge ratios are sticky, adjusted slowly and in
cycles rather than day-to-day.
The incentive to hedge is governed largely by the cost of hedging, which for a rolling
short-dated hedge would tend to be in the 3m to 1-year tenor and approximated by
the front-end interest rate differential plus the cross-currency basis. A wide positive

rate differential between the US and the rest of the world makes selling the dollar
forward expensive, it subtracts directly from the hedged return and, when the
hedged yield on a US bond turns negative, removes the entire rationale for holding
the asset in hedged form. This is precisely why hedge ratios fell across the
developed world as US front-end rates rose after 2022, leaving investors
structurally under-hedged and dollar exposure near historical highs (Gopal, Baker

and Dynan, 2025).
The relationship is not mechanical, however and after the US administration's trade
actions in 2025 investors raised dollar hedges sharply in response to surprise shifts
in US economic and foreign policy (Shin, Wooldridge and Xia, 2025 and Saravelos,
2025). The practical conclusion is that hedge ratio dynamics are best read as a joint
function of the short-end rate differential (the cost) and broader shifts in underlying
currency views (Grover and Harvey, 2024).

The yield curve and FX
The shape of the yield curve carries independent information for the medium-run
exchange rate, and does so through two complementary channels. The first is

### Page 44

The Currency Book
Page 44 Deutsche Bank AG
predictive. Because the term structure embeds the market's expectations of future
short rates, growth, inflation and policy risk (term premium), cross-country
differences in the slope of the curve can help forecast currency returns at longer-
horizons. Ang and Chen (2010) show that term spreads and changes in interest
rates significantly predict excess FX returns for up to twelve months, and that
portfolios built on these signals carry low skewness and little correlation with the

carry trade.
Winkler (2022) breaks down term structures into three curve factors: level, slope
and curvature. He shows that the dollar depends more on the slope and curvature
of the US rate curve than its level. A steep and hump-shaped rate curve relative to
the rest of the world, implying a young business cycle and rising real rates, predicts
a stronger dollar, and vice versa. The practical reading is that a relatively steep
domestic curve is a signal of expected future easing or of a term premium

demanded for macro risk, both of which are currency-negative over the medium
run.
Figure 31: FX implications of the shape of the rate curve
relative to the world
Source : Deutsche Bank
The second channel via which the yield curve affects FX is a flow mechanism that
connects directly to the hedging discussion above. Nenova, Schrimpf and Shin
(2025) show that the relative slope of yield curves governs where hedged bond
capital is allocated: a steeper curve draws foreign bond inflows and, with them, a

rise in FX swap hedging volumes because hedging is cheap. Flatter curves reduce
the attractiveness of FX hedging encouraging more un-hedged inflow.

### Page 45

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 45
2.8 Short-run determination I: Order flow and market microstructure
Order flow and market microstructure
Because macro fundamentals are near-useless at high frequency, the short-run
behaviour of exchange rates is the domain of market microstructure, the study of
how the trading process itself conveys information and moves prices. The initial
insight, due to Evans and Lyons (2002), is that order flow (signed transaction

volume — the net of buyer-initiated and seller-initiated trades) is the proximate
driver of exchange rates and the channel through which dispersed information
about fundamentals, risk appetite and hedging demand is aggregated into price.
Order flow explains a large share of daily and intraday exchange-rate variation,
more than macro news alone.
The most important modern contribution is Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling and
Schrimpf (2016), where using a large dealer's disaggregated customer order flow,

they show that order flow is highly informative about future exchange rates.
Crucially, different customer segments (asset managers, hedge funds, corporates,
private clients) differ markedly in their trading styles, information content and risk
exposures. Financial and non-financial customers tend to trade in opposite
directions, so the dealers intermediate risk sharing between them, and the
information in financial-customer flow has a persistent, longer-term impact on

returns consistent with it carrying fundamental information.
DB house research: CORAX and the anatomy of FX flows
Deutsche Bank's CORAX indicators (Categorised ORderflow from Autobahn FX),
derived from the bank's globally aggregated electronic spot flow, allow this
literature to be applied directly. Grover (2021), building explicitly on Menkhoff et al.
(2016), studies discretionary versus systematic hedge-fund flows across G10 and
liquid EM from January 2016. The findings largely mirror the results of the academic

literature:
n Both discretionary and systematic hedge-fund flows are positively
correlated with contemporaneous spot, the relationship being stronger for
systematic funds.
n Looking forward, discretionary investor flows in G10 positively predict spot
for up to about ten days, turning negative at longer horizons — while
systematic flows provide more of a mean reversion signal. In EM,
discretionary flows show strong mean reversion.
n Across the broader client taxonomy, real-money flows are positively

correlated with contemporaneous and one-day-ahead spot; corporate
flows are negatively correlated contemporaneously but positively related
to future spot in the near-to-medium term in G10; and retail flows are
negatively correlated (contrarian in the near term, becoming trend-
following at the medium term).
Flows are powerful contemporaneous and short-horizon indicators, and the sign of
their predictive content depends on which client segment is trading and over what

horizon.

### Page 46

The Currency Book
Page 46 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 32: Systematic HF flows show a higher degree of
contemporaneous correlation than other client categories
-40%
-2
0%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
Investors Hedge Fund Asset
Managers
Corporates Systematic
Hedge Fund
Discretionary
Hedge Fund
Retail
Investors
USDG10
USDEM
Source : Deutsche Bank
Figure 33: Correlation between CORAX systematic HF
flows and future spot move
1 2 3 4 5 10 15 22 43 65
EUR
JPY
GBP
CHF

CAD
AUD
NZD
NOK
SEK
MXN
TRY
ILS
ZAR
PLN
HUF
CZK
RUB
Future trading days
Trend followingMean reverting
Source : Deutsche Bank
2.9 Short-run determination II: Positioning, options flow, sentiment, data
releases and technical analysis
Positioning
Because currencies can overshoot and trend, measures of market positioning are
valuable, particularly as contrarian signals at extremes. Positioning refers to the
stock of existing long and short currency exposures held by investors: a market is

described as “long” a currency when investors have, in aggregate, built positions
that benefit from its appreciation, and “short” when they are positioned for
depreciation. This differs from flows, which measure new buying and selling over
a period; positioning instead captures the cumulative result of past flows and
therefore indicates how much directional risk is already embedded in investor
portfolios.
Positioning matters because the impact of new information depends partly on how

investors are already positioned. When a currency has been rising for some time,
investors may progressively add to long positions, reinforcing the trend. But once
positioning becomes crowded, fewer investors remain to initiate additional longs,
while a negative surprise can force existing holders to unwind positions
simultaneously. Stop-losses, margin constraints and systematic trading strategies
can amplify this process, turning an initially modest reversal into a sharp move.

Conversely, an extremely short currency can rally strongly even on modestly
positive news as investors rush to cover their positions. Positioning is therefore
most useful not as a mechanical timing indicator, but as a measure of market
vulnerability and asymmetry: stretched positioning raises the probability that an
adverse surprise generates a disproportionately large price response.

### Page 47

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 47
Figure 34: DB EPIC+ positioning (as of 01-Sep-2026)
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP, DTCC, EBS, Reuters, IMM, CORAX Note: 1) * Long (or short ) versus EUR for CZK, HUF, PLN,
CHF, NOK and SEK. 2) The black bars on the right-hand side are average positioning levels for G10, Asia, CEEMEA and LatAm. 3) The y-axis shows
readings of positioning index in a z-score format, which is an average of rolling one year z-scores for individual sub-indicators. Thus, the long or

short of each currency is relative to its one year's average instead of absolute level.
The classic public gauges are the CFTC/IMM speculative futures positions, which
provide weekly data on long and short positions held by different investor
categories, and dealer or investor sentiment surveys. These measures capture only
parts of the global FX market, however, and practitioners therefore supplement
them with other metrics.
Deutsche Bank's EPIC+ framework aggregates positioning across both direct

measures (CFTC/IMM) and indirect ones (CORAX & spot flows, inter-dealer order-
book data, risk reversals, and the DTCC-derived Skew Volume/COFFEE options
indicators). Grover, Nandy, Charles and Xu (2024) evaluate the live, out-of-sample
performance of position-fading (contrarian) strategies since the EPIC+ launch in
January 2021 and find them still profitable for most pairs over the medium term: an
equal-weighted position-fading portfolio delivered a Sharpe ratio of 0.54 after costs

(0.75 excluding EUR, CNH and THB, which are better traded as position-following),
while a cross-sectional long-short portfolio that fades excessive positioning
delivered a Sharpe ratio of 1.2 after costs (against 1.7 in backtest). Importantly,
performance dips when FX volatility is high and the dollar is trending strongly —
contrarian signals work best in less-trending markets. Risk reversals, CORAX and
IMM are the most effective inputs for spotting fading opportunities in DM; the

COFFEE options-skew indicator and spot imbalance work better in EM.
Options market information
Given the size and depth of the currency option market, option prices can contain
information about market expectations and risk sentiment that is not fully visible in
spot or forward rates. Implied volatility measures the market price of protection
against exchange rate movements, while the volatility smile provides information
about the perceived balance of tail risks.

### Page 48

The Currency Book
Page 48 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 35: Simplistic depiction of a volatility smile
Source : Investopedia, Deutsche Bank
The most widely followed measure of this asymmetry is the risk reversal, usually
calculated as the implied volatility of an out-of-the-money currency call minus that
of an equivalent-delta currency put. A positive risk reversal means that calls on the
base currency are more expensive than comparable puts, indicating greater

demand for protection against, or exposure to, base-currency appreciation. Risk
reversals should not, however, be interpreted as pure forecasts: they reflect the
market’s risk-neutral distribution and therefore combine expected outcomes with
risk premia, hedging demand and position imbalances. More generally, option
prices can be used to recover information about the market-implied distribution of
future exchange rates, including its volatility, skewness and tail probabilities

(Campa, Chang and Reider, 1998).
Options can also affect the exchange rate mechanically through the hedging
activity they generate. Dealers typically manage the delta of their option books (the
change to the value of their positions driven by spot exchange-rate movements) by
buying or selling the underlying currency as spot moves. The direction of these
flows depends importantly on the market’s aggregate gamma, which measures
how rapidly an option portfolio’s delta changes with the exchange rate. Dealers

who are long gamma generally sell the currency after it rises and buy it after it falls,
creating countercyclical flows that can dampen volatility and sometimes pull spot
towards large strikes around expiry. Dealers who are short gamma must instead
buy as the currency rises and sell as it falls, producing procyclical flows that can
amplify an existing move. Empirical evidence using trade-repository data confirms
that negative market-maker gamma can increase spot-market volatility, while

positive gamma has the opposite effect (Anderegg, Ulmann and Sornette, 2022).
These effects can become especially pronounced around barrier options, which are
activated or extinguished when the exchange rate reaches a predetermined level.
As spot approaches a barrier, the option’s delta and gamma may change sharply,
requiring increasingly large hedge adjustments. Investors with an interest in
preventing the barrier from being triggered may also trade defensively around the

level. If the barrier is ultimately breached, the associated option exposure and
hedges can disappear or change abruptly, generating a sudden reversal of previous
hedging flows or accelerating the move through the level. The precise direction
depends on whether the option is a knock-in or knock-out, whether it is a call or put,

### Page 49

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 49
and which side of the transaction dealers hold. Consequently, large strikes, expiries
and barriers do not provide deterministic support or resistance, but they can
materially alter the short-run elasticity of market flows and help explain why
exchange-rates occasionally become unusually stable near particular levels.
Figure 36: Simplistic depiction of a knock-out call
Source : Financialtrading.com Deutsche Bank

Weng and Grover (2017) introduce Deutsche Bank's Skew Volume Indicators, built
from DTCC data (the DTCC registers almost all US currency-option trades, over a
fifth of global derivative volumes). The key innovation is separating option
transactions into investors (at-the-money options, 25-75 delta, the SVA indicator),
versus hedgers (out-of-the-money options, 0-25 delta. the SVO indicator). The
findings are tradeable: investor flows positively lead currency moves (it pays to

follow investors), whereas hedging flows negatively lead returns (it pays to fade
hedgers). A momentum strategy on SVA earned a Sharpe ratio of 0.83, a contrarian
strategy on SVO a Sharpe of 0.67, and a blended strategy 0.96 in their sample.
Technical analysis and trend-following
Technical analysis refers to forecasting future price movements from patterns in
past market data rather than from an explicit model of economic fundamentals. In
FX, this typically means analysing the history of exchange rates and sometimes

volume, volatility or positioning to identify trends, momentum, turning points and
important price levels.
Common techniques include moving averages, which generate signals when a
short-term price trend crosses a longer-term one; momentum and oscillator
indicators, which attempt to identify overbought or oversold conditions; and
support and resistance levels, where previous highs, lows or other widely watched
prices are expected to influence future trading behaviour. More sophisticated

systematic versions of technical analysis translate these ideas into mechanical
trend-following or breakout rules.

### Page 50

The Currency Book
Page 50 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 37: Examples of technical analysis
Source : Aimarrow.com, Deutsche Bank
The underlying premise is not necessarily that past prices contain fundamental
information, but that investor behaviour, herding, stop-loss activity and
institutional trading practices can generate persistence or recurring patterns in
prices. Technical analysis is pervasive in FX markets, with surveys finding
widespread use among FX dealers and professional fund managers, associated

with the belief that psychological and non-fundamental factors can influence prices
(Gehrig and Menkhoff, 2006; Menkhoff, 2010).
There is also a substantial literature showing that simple technical trading rules
have historically generated statistically and economically significant returns in FX.
Levich and Thomas (1993), using bootstrap tests on currency futures, find that
moving-average and filter rules produced profits that were difficult to reconcile with

simple random exchange-rate processes. Neely, Weller and Dittmar (1997)
similarly find significant out-of-sample excess returns across several major
exchange rates using rules selected by genetic-programming techniques.
Menkhoff and Taylor (2007) survey this literature and evaluate four broad
explanations for the use of technical analysis: irrational behaviour, exploitation of
central bank intervention, efficient processing of dispersed information, and the

ability of technical signals to capture non-fundamental influences on exchange
rates. They regard the final explanation as the most persuasive. In this
interpretation, technical analysis is useful because FX prices can be driven for
extended periods by order flow, positioning, herding and other market dynamics
that are not immediately captured by standard macroeconomic models.
News, Announcements and High-Frequency Dynamics
A distinct microstructure literature studies how exchange rates react to scheduled

macroeconomic news at high frequency. The work of Andersen, Bollerslev, Diebold
and Vega (2003) showed, using real-time data, that exchange rates respond within
seconds to the surprise component of macro announcements (relative to survey

### Page 51

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 51
expectations) and that announcement surprises explain  a meaningful share of
high-frequency volatility. This body of work reconciles the "fundamentals don't
matter" result with intuition: fundamentals do move exchange rates, but they do so
in sharp, news-driven  jumps around  data releases and central-bank
communications, which are hard to see in monthly  data. It also underpins the
modern reality that the largest intraday FX moves cluster around US payrolls, CPI

and FOMC decisions.
Risk sentiment and impact on FX
Risk sentiment is an important cross-cutting driver of exchange rates because it
changes investors’ willingness and capacity to hold leveraged or risky currency
positions. During periods of strong risk appetite and low volatility, investors tend to
borrow in low-yielding funding currencies and invest in higher-yielding currencies,
supporting carry-trade returns. When volatility  rises or market  liquidity

deteriorates, however, losses, tighter funding constraints and margin calls  can
trigger a simultaneous unwinding of these positions: high-yielding and relatively
illiquid currencies are sold, while funding currencies are repurchased, amplifying
the initial exchange-rate move.
Brunnermeier, Nagel and Pedersen  (2009) document the  resulting negative
skewness and crash risk of carry trades, while Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling and
Schrimpf (2012) show  that high-yield currencies perform  poorly following

increases in global FX volatility. Risk appetite is generally perceived to be negatively
correlated with the broad US dollar: the dollar often strengthens when global risk
sentiment deteriorates, reflecting its central role in international funding, liquidity
and safe-asset demand. The relationship between the dollar and risk appetite is
however not stable over time, with shocks that disproportionately impact the
US such as the bursting of the 2000 dot-com bubble often associated with a

weaker dollar.
2.10 Forecasting performance and the Meese-Rogoff Puzzle
Meese and Rogoff (1983), showed that the structural exchange-rate models of the
day, monetary, portfolio-balance, could not out-forecast a naive random walk out
of sample, even when fed the realised (future) values of the fundamentals. Four
decades on, the Meese-Rogoff puzzle remains the benchmark against which every
forecasting claim is measured, and the  random walk without drift has proven

extraordinarily hard to beat at horizons under a year.
One of the  most useful modern surveys  on exchange-rate forecasting is Rossi
(2013, Journal of Economic Literature). Her review  of the post-1983 literature
reaches a mixed verdict: predictability does exist, but it is fragile and conditional.
Parameter instability is one of the biggest challenges to systematic exchange-rate
modelling: it is not only that fundamentals change over time, but the relationship

between these and exchange rates changes too.

### Page 52

The Currency Book
Page 52 Deutsche Bank AG
2.11 Modern theories of the exchange rate
Exchange rates dominated by financial markets
With financial markets outpacing the real economy in size and growth, Gabaix and
Maggiori (2015) provide a theory in which exchange rates are determined by capital
flows intermediated through imperfect financial markets. Gabaix and Maggiori
introduce financial intermediaries (primarily banks) with limited risk-bearing

capacity into their model. When, for example, investors in one country increase
their demand for foreign assets, intermediaries must take the opposite currency
exposure to clear the market. As their balance sheets become more exposed, they
require greater compensation for bearing that risk, and the exchange rate moves
sufficiently to induce them to absorb the imbalance. The larger the required flow
relative to intermediaries' risk-bearing capacity, the larger the resulting exchange-

rate adjustment. This provides an important explanation for why exchange rates
can move substantially even when trade flows or conventional macroeconomic
fundamentals change little. Shifts in international portfolio preferences, financial
regulation, intermediary balance sheet capacity or global risk appetite can all
generate exchange-rate movements by changing the willingness of financial
institutions to intermediate the resulting flows.
The framework is therefore particularly useful for understanding episodes such as

the 2008 global financial crisis, when large exchange-rate movements were
associated with deleveraging, balance-sheet constraints cross-border portfolio
adjustment rather than simply changes in goods trade. A closely related
perspective is provided by Rey (2015), who argues that the US dollar sits at the core
of the global financial cycle. The large pool of dollars sitting outside the US banking
system means easier US financial conditions are associated with expanding cross-

border leverage and capital flows and, typically, a weaker dollar. Conversely, tighter
financial conditions and rising global risk aversion trigger deleveraging,
repatriation and demand for dollar liquidity, tending to strengthen the dollar. The
dollar therefore acts not simply as the relative price of US and foreign goods, but as
a key price through which changes in global financial conditions and risk-bearing
capacity are transmitted internationally.

Conventional PPP and real effective exchange rate measures weight currencies
according to bilateral trade, implicitly reflecting the importance of different
countries in goods and services markets. This financial-market perspective is the
motivation behind the Deutsche Bank's Capital-weighted PPP model. A capital-
weighted approach instead gives greater weight to currencies against which a
country has large cross-border financial exposures, recognising that the relevant

counterparties for exchange rate determination may increasingly be determined by
the geography of portfolios rather than trade. Our capital-based valuation
measures therefore construct a real effective financial exchange rate using capital
weights and compare its level with a historical equilibrium in much the same way
that conventional PPP compares a trade-weighted real exchange rate with its long-
run norm. For countries with very large external asset and liability positions, this can

yield materially different measures of currency valuation from traditional trade-
weighted PPP and provides a useful complement in a world where gross capital
flows substantially exceed the flows associated with international trade.

### Page 53

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 53
Figure 38: Scatter plot of current capital and trade-based valuations
Source : Haver Analytics, Deutsche Bank
Convenience yields and safe-asset demand for dollars
A complementary financial mechanism, specific to the dollar, is the convenience
yield on safe dollar assets. Jiang, Krishnamurthy and Lustig (2021) develop a theory
in which the dollar's value reflects the convenience (safety and liquidity) services

that global investors derive from holding US Treasuries. This convenience yield is
measurable via the Treasury basis (the yield gap between US government bonds
and currency-hedged foreign government bonds); when it widens, the dollar
appreciates immediately and then depreciates subsequently. In their words, "the
variation in the Treasury basis accounts for 25 percent of the quarterly variation in
the dollar between 1988 and 2017," and "on average, foreign investors earn an extra

convenience yield of 2% on Treasury holdings," 90% of which is directly attributable
to the dollar denomination.
Covered Interest Parity Deviations and the Cross-Currency Basis
Among the most consequential post-crisis developments is the breakdown of
covered interest parity. CIP is a pure no-arbitrage identity and held almost perfectly
before 2008. Since the crisis, persistent, systematic deviations have opened up,
measured by the cross-currency basis: the extra cost, over and above the interest

differential, of borrowing dollars synthetically through the FX swap market. Du,
Tepper and Verdelhan (2018) document that these deviations are large, persistent
and systematic, and are not explained by credit risk or transaction costs alone. They
are strongest for contracts that sit on bank balance sheets at quarter-ends, pointing
to post-crisis banking regulation (leverage ratios, risk-weighted capital) as the
cause: the balance-sheet cost of arbitrage means dealers no longer close the gap.

The basis is typically negative for currencies whose investors demand dollar hedges
(JPY, EUR), reflecting a structural shortage of dollar funding. See more here.
The macro-financial significance was crystallised by Avdjiev, Du, Koch and Shin
(2019), who document a "triangular" relationship: a stronger broad dollar goes
hand-in-hand with a higher cost of dollar funding and a contraction in cross-border
dollar bank lending. This links the cross-currency basis (a microstructure/funding

### Page 54

The Currency Book
Page 54 Deutsche Bank AG
variable) directly to the broad-dollar cycle and global credit conditions.
Figure 39: Cross currency basis for EUR and JPY
-350
-300
-
250
-200
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
07 08 09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
3m cross currency basis (bps)
EUR
JPY
Eurozone
crisis (2011-12
COVID shock
(2020)
Global Financial Crisis
(200
8-09)
Source : Deutsche Bank calculations, Bloomberg Finance LP
The Dominant Currency Paradigm and Invoicing

The Dominant Currency Paradigm (DCP) of Gopinath, Boz, Casas, Díez, Gourinchas
and Plagborg-Møller (2020) and alters the textbook framework in which prices are
set either in the producer's currency or the destination's. Using a dataset of more
than 2,500 country pairs covering 91% of world trade, they show that the vast
majority of world trade is invoiced in a small number of dominant currencies,
overwhelmingly the US dollar, and that those invoice prices are sticky in dollars

(Sachdeva, 2026).
This has important implications: exchange rate movements against the dollar,
rather than bilateral rates, drive trade prices and quantities and expenditure
switching operates weakly and asymmetrically. The dollar therefore exerts a
systemic influence on global trade and inflation that no other currency matches,
reinforcing the demand for dollar invoicing, dollar funding and dollar reserves in a
self-sustaining equilibrium. Combined with the safe-asset/convenience-yield

channel and the funding/basis channel, this literature completes the picture of
dollar dominance as a structural feature of the international monetary system.
2.12 Central bank intervention
Official intervention in the FX market, the purchase or sale of foreign currency by the
central bank, is a long-standing but contested policy tool. The theoretical channels
are the portfolio-balance channel (intervention changes the relative supply of
assets), the signalling channel (intervention reveals information about future

policy) and, more recently, an order-flow/microstructure channel (intervention

### Page 55

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 55
affects price like any large order). Sterilised intervention14  by advanced economies
was long viewed sceptically. The best modern evidence is more encouraging.
Fratzscher, Gloede, Menkhoff, Sarno and Stöhr (2019) using a novel daily dataset
covering 33 countries from 1995–2011, find that "intervention is widely used and
an effective policy tool, with a success rate in excess of 80 percent under some
criteria." It works best at smoothing the exchange-rate path and defending narrow

bands; moving the level of a floating currency requires that interventions be large,
public and supported by communication.
Menkhoff (2013) surveys the specific and generally more favourable evidence for
emerging markets, where intervention and reserve management are pervasive.
Recent episodes illustrate the spectrum: the Swiss National Bank's EUR/CHF floor
(2011–15) and its abrupt abandonment in January 2015; large-scale Japanese
intervention to slow yen depreciation in 2022 and 2024; and routine EM

intervention. Intervention is most effective when it works with fundamentals and
market positioning rather than against them.
2.13 Currency regimes and emerging market crises
The distinction between fixed and floating exchange rates is in practice a
continuum. The IMF's de facto classification distinguishes ten regimes according
to the strength of the authorities' commitment to an exchange-rate level or path, the
observed behaviour of the currency and the extent of official intervention. At one

extreme, dollarisation and currency boards largely eliminate monetary autonomy;
at the other, freely floating currencies are almost entirely market determined.
Between them sit a range of pegs, bands, crawling regimes and managed
arrangements that trade greater exchange-rate stability for progressively less
monetary-policy independence.
14 Intervention by a central bank to buy or sell a currency changes the currency's money supply. A
sterilization involves an offsetting transaction by the central bank in the domestic money market to

remove or add back the liquidity.

### Page 56

The Currency Book
Page 56 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 40: Exchange rate regimes according to the IMF
Broad FX regime IMF category What it means Mai n IMF classification criteria
Hard peg No separate legal tender The country uses another country’s currency as its
leg
al tender—for example, through formal
dollarisation—so there is no independent domestic
exchange rate.
Authorities’ de jure arrangement is confirmed;
an
other country’s currency is the sole legal tender.

This effectively eliminates independent national
monetary policy.
Hard peg Currency board
Domestic currency exists, but its value is rigidly fix ed
to an anchor currency and its issuance is
constrained by the availability of foreign reserves.
There is an explicit legal commitment to exchange
do
mestic currency for a specified foreign currency at
a fixed rate. Domestic currency is normally backed
by foreign assets and the issuing authority faces tight

restrictions on discretionary monetary policy.
Soft peg Conventional pegged arrangement
The currency is formally pegged to another currency
or
a basket, but unlike a currency board the peg can
ultimately be changed and the central bank retains
more policy flexibility.
Authorities formally announce or notify the IMF of the
p
eg and stand ready to defend it through direct or
indirect intervention. The rate must generally stay
within –1% of a central parity, or within a total 2%

ra
nge, for at least six months.
Soft peg Stabilized arrangement
A de facto peg: the authorities may not formally
an
nounce a peg, but the exchange rate behaves as
though one exists.
The spot rate remains within a 2% margin for six
mon
ths or more relative to an identifiable currency or
basket, and the stability is judged to result from
official action or structural market rigidities. Unlike a
conventional peg, there need not be an announced
commitment.

Soft / intermediate Crawling peg
Instead of fixing the currency permanently at one
lev
el, the authorities periodically adjust the central
rate in small steps.
A formally announced rule determines the crawl—for
ex
ample a fixed depreciation rate or adjustments
based on inflation differentials or other indicators.
The rule and its parameters are public or notified to
the IMF.
Soft / intermediate Crawl-like arrangement
A de facto crawling peg: the currency follows a

re
latively smooth trend even though the authorities
have not formally committed to a crawling rule.
The rate remains within a 2% margin around a
st
atistically identified trend for at least six months
and cannot qualify as floating. Generally the trend
must be sufficiently persistent; an annualised
movement of at least 1% can qualify if appreciation
or depreciation is sufficiently monotonic and
continuous.
Soft / intermediate Pegged within horizontal bands

The authorities commit to keeping the exchange rate
ins
ide a band around a central parity rather than at
one precise level. The band gives monetary policy
somewhat more room than a conventional peg.
The central rate and band are formally announced or
no
tified to the IMF. The permitted fluctuation is at
lea
st –1% around the central rate, or the distance
between the maximum and minimum permitted
exchange rates exceeds 2%.
Floating Floating
The exchange rate is primarily determined by market

su
pply and demand. The central bank can still
intervene to dampen volatility, but does not defend a
particular exchange-rate level.
The rate is largely market determined and has no
as
certainable or predictable path. Intervention may
moderate excessive movements, but targeting a
particular exchange-rate level is inconsistent with the
classification.
Floating Free floating
The strongest form of floating: the market determines
th
e exchange rate and official intervention is very

rare.
Must first meet the criteria for floating. Intervention
should occur only exceptionally to address disorderly
markets; under the IMF methodology it is limited to
no more than three episodes in the previous six
months, each lasting no more than three business
days.
Residual / managed Other managed arrangement
The authorities materially influence the exchange
ra
te, but its behaviour does not fit any of the IMF’s
peg, crawl or floating definitions. This can include

regimes where the intervention strategy or exchange-
rate objective changes over time.
Residual category used when none of the other
de
finitions is satisfied; regimes characterised by
frequent changes in exchange-rate policy can fall
here.
Source : Deutsche Bank, IMF

### Page 57

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 57
The exchange-rate regime shapes how shocks are absorbed and how vulnerable a
currency is to crisis. The "Impossible Trinity" (fixed rate, free capital mobility,
monetary autonomy: choose two) remains the organising principle.
Figure 41: The Impossible Trinity
Source : Feridun, M. (2014), Deutsche Bank
The literature on early warning systems for emerging-market currency crises
identifies recurrent symptoms: real overvaluation, weak growth, adverse terms-of-

trade shocks, deteriorating current accounts, excessive domestic credit expansion,
banking-system fragility, large fiscal deficits, high ratios of short-term external
liabilities (and of M2) to reserves, and reserve losses (Frankel and Saravelos, 2012).
Successive generations of crisis models – first-generation (fiscal/monetary
fundamentals), second-generation (self-fulfilling expectations and multiple
equilibria), and third-generation (balance-sheet and banking/currency-mismatch

channels, motivated by the 1997–98 Asian crisis) — map onto these symptoms.
2.14 Frontier topics: machine learning and digital currencies
The application of machine learning (ML), random forests, gradient boosting,
neural networks, and now large language models for news processing, to
exchange-rate forecasting has grown significantly in recent years. Several studies
report ML models beating the random walk in directional (sign) forecasting and
when many predictors and time effects are combined, but the improvements are

typically small and concentrated in specific regimes.
Rigorous recent work continues to find that ML models frequently fail to beat a
random walk on error-magnitude (RMSE) criteria under strict out-of-sample,
expanding-window evaluation — the Meese-Rogoff result proves robust even to
modern methods (Pfahler, 2022 and Jackson & Magkonis (2024). ML is most
promising for (i) directional and volatility forecasting, (ii) exploiting high-frequency
and alternative data (order flow, news, positioning), and (iii) nonlinear combination

of the fundamentals and factors described in this section rather than as a magic

### Page 58

The Currency Book
Page 58 Deutsche Bank AG
solution to level forecasting.
2.15 Cryptocurrencies, stablecoins and CBDCs
Digital assets are increasingly relevant to FX. Dollar-pegged stablecoins are
emerging as a potentially meaningful conduit for dollar demand, particularly in
emerging markets with weak currencies or capital controls, effectively extending
dollar dominance. A recent Deutsche Bank study has expanded into this topic in
more detail (Sachdeva and Saravelos, 2025). Central-bank digital currencies

(CBDCs) and cross-border CBDC projects could, over time, alter FX-market
plumbing, settlement and the mechanics of intervention, though their macro
impact on exchange-rate determination remains speculative as of 2026.
Cryptocurrencies themselves remain too volatile and too small to function as
genuine exchange rate anchors, but the infrastructure they have spawned — 24/7
settlement, tokenised deposits — is beginning to matter for market microstructure.

2.16 Bringing it all together
No single model of exchange rate determination is right all the time; the challenge
lies in matching the tool to the horizon and the regime. The evidence assembled
here supports a staged approach to exchange rate determination.
n First, anchor exchange rates with valuation (strategic, 3 years+). Use PPP,
BEER and FEER to establish a fair-value range and the direction of long-run
misalignment. Prefer PPP for G10 and DBeer for EM.

n Second, align FX forecasting with the economic cycle (cyclical, 1–2 years).
Use interest rate differentials, both level (carry) and change, the monetary
policy cycle and Taylor rule fundamentals for medium-run direction. Take
account of shifts in the balance of payments, both on the current account
and the capital flow side of the ledger.
n Third, flow and positioning matter (tactical overlay). Use order flow, options
flow and positioning as high-frequency short-horizon mean-reversion

signals.
n Finally, be aware of regime changes. This can take the form of a change in
exchange rate regime from a peg to a float, an underlying abrupt shift in
macroeconomic fundamentals (Brexit) or a large financial shock that shifts
the market to a new equilibrium (2008 Financial Crisis or Eurozone crisis).

### Page 59

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 59
Introduction
Currency investing starts from a different premise to equities or bonds: a currency
has no stand-alone expected return and every exposure is inherently relative,
involving a long position in one currency and a short position in another, typically
implemented through spot, forwards or options. Do investors make money from
trading FX? Can FX be treated as an investable asset class? Our first chapter

demonstrated the importance of non-profit-seeking participants in the FX market.
This weakens the application of the efficient-market hypothesis and creates scope
for excess returns. Our second chapter introduced the exchange-rate frameworks
that can inform an investment approach to currencies. This chapter turns from
theory to real-world evidence. We examine whether systematic currency factors
such as carry, momentum and value have generated persistent returns, whether

quantitative investors can capture them after costs and whether discretionary
currency managers generate alpha beyond these systematic exposures.
3.1 FX "beta" and factor investing
The poor out-of-sample performance of models designed to forecast exchange rate
levels, together with the persistent empirical rejection of uncovered interest parity
(UIP) has generated a large investor ecosystem focused on harvesting currency risk
premia via systematic strategies and indices across baskets of currencies rather

than individual exchange rates. Three investment-style factors have become
canonical:
n Carry involves buying high-interest-rate currencies and funding the
position by selling low-interest-rate currencies. Its profitability is the
investment counterpart of the forward-premium puzzle: high-yielding
currencies have not, on average, depreciated sufficiently to eliminate their
interest-rate advantage. Carry returns are often interpreted as
compensation for exposure to global risk, since high-yielding currencies

### Page 60

The Currency Book
Page 60 Deutsche Bank AG
tend to underperform during episodes of rising volatility, deteriorating
liquidity and widespread deleveraging (Lustig, Roussanov and Verdelhan,
2011; Menkhoff et al., 2012a).
n Momentum involves buying currencies with strong recent excess returns—
the “winners”—and selling recent “losers.” Menkhoff, Sarno, Schmeling
and Schrimpf (2012b) document substantial cross-sectional momentum in
currencies. Proposed explanations include the gradual incorporation of

information into exchange rates, investor underreaction and overreaction,
and limits to arbitrage, although transaction costs reduce the returns
available to implementable strategies.
n Value, sometimes described as a valuation or mean-reversion strategy,
involves buying currencies judged to be undervalued and selling those
judged to be overvalued relative to an equilibrium benchmark such as
purchasing-power parity or a behavioural equilibrium exchange rate

model. Value signals generally operate over longer horizons than carry or
momentum, reflecting the slow tendency of real exchange rates to revert
towards equilibrium. Evidence for currency value strategies forms part of
the broader finding that value and momentum premia appear across
several asset classes (Asness, Moskowitz and Pedersen, 2013). Practitioner
implementations include Deutsche Bank’s PPP and DBeer frameworks
(Grover, 2025).
One of the earliest practical attempts to package these systematic returns into a

currency “beta” equivalent to the S&P 500 for equities was the Deutsche Bank
Currency Returns (DBCR) Index, introduced in 2007. The index equally weights
transparent, rules-based carry, momentum and valuation strategies across liquid
developed-market currencies and was designed to be investable after transaction
costs. In its original backtest over 1980–2006, DBCR generated an annualised
excess return of approximately 4 per cent, volatility of 5.2 per cent and a Sharpe ratio

of 0.77, with a maximum drawdown of 11 per cent. Its relatively low correlations
with global bonds and equities illustrated the potential diversification benefits of
combining systematic currency exposure with traditional asset classes (Hafeez,
2007).
A subsequent reassessment by Saravelos et al. (2018) found that the risk-adjusted
returns of the combined carry, momentum and value approach had remained
resilient after the global financial crisis. Over the longer sample beginning in the

1980s, systematic currency returns were found to be comparable on a risk-adjusted
basis with those of global bond and equity portfolios, while adding FX exposure to
a conventional portfolio reduced historical volatility and drawdowns.
These benefits arise partly because the component factors perform well in different
environments: momentum can offset some of the losses suffered by carry and
value during sharp regime changes, while valuation may benefit from the eventual

reversal of prolonged trends.
Factor returns nevertheless remain cyclical and can be exposed to crash risk,
crowding, changing monetary regimes and implementation costs; they should
therefore be understood as compensation for bearing a collection of risks rather
than as mechanical arbitrage profits.

### Page 61

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 61
Figure 42: DBCR returns vs risk-free-rate
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
Valuation Carry
Momentum DBCR
Excess returns above LIBOR
Source : Deutsche Bank
3.2 Systematic and quant-based investors
Systematic currency and macro managers construct portfolios using predefined,
rules-based models that are more advanced than the drivers highlighted above.
These may combine price-based signals, such as trend, momentum and volatility,

with macroeconomic and valuation variables, including interest-rate differentials,
purchasing power parity, external balances and policy expectations. Traditional
factor strategies, econometric models and more recent machine-learning
approaches all fall within this category. Their defining feature is the consistent
translation of observable  data into positions  through a repeatable portfolio-
construction and risk-management process.  Commodity Trading Advisors, or

CTAs, are an important subset of systematic macro managers. Despite their name,
CTAs are not confined to commodities: they typically trade diversified portfolios of
equity-index, government-bond, interest-rate, commodity and currency markets.
Their currency positions are therefore usually part of a broader cross-asset portfolio
rather than a dedicated FX mandate.
CTAs commonly implement currency exposure through exchange-traded futures.
Futures are standardised, centrally cleared and highly liquid in the major currency

contracts, while allowing investors to take long or short positions with relatively
little initial capital through margining.
We thus return to the CFTC weekly commitment of traders report to produce an
estimate of returns from profit-seeking activity from quant-based models using the
methodology of Kearns and Manners (2004). As noted above, the IMM report gives
the FX futures position of commercial and non-commercial every Tuesday. Given
this information, it is a relatively straightforward exercise to calculate the profit or

loss made every week by the respective parties.
We find that profit seekers make billions of dollars trading FX futures at the
expense of hedgers almost every year since 1993. 16 . The breakdown for the
individual currency pairs is also as expected, with annualised losses for non-profit
seekers highest in EUR and JPY.
16 (We use dollar rates for CAD, CHF, EUR (since 1999), GBP, AUD (since 2000) and JPY)

### Page 62

The Currency Book
Page 62 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 43: CFTC data shows that speculators consistently
make money
-7,000
-5,000
-3
,000
-1,000
1,000
3,000
5,000 Annual Profit/Loss from Trading FX futures
Profit seekers Non Profit-Seekers
$ millions
Source : CFTC, Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank
Figure 44: Profit-seekers consistently make money across
all currencies
112 32 19.90
590.08
48.61 281.14
-174 -68 -75
-775
-92
-451
-1,000
-800
-
600
-400

-200
0
200
400
600
800
AUD CAD CHF EUR GBP JPY
Annualised Profit/Loss by Currency (through 2026)
Profit Seekers Non Profit-Seekers
$ millions, annualised from 1993-2026,
(1999-2026
for EUR and 2000-2026 for
AUD)
Source : CFTC, Bloomberg Finance LP, Deutsche Bank
3.3 Discretionary currency manager "alpha"
FX has been one of the asset classes of choice for macro investors since the 1980s
so in contrast to other asset classes, we have a long history of "active" manager

returns too. Discretionary macro investors take currency positions as part of a
broader assessment of the global economic and policy environment. Their
decisions may reflect views on monetary-policy divergence, fiscal policy, political
risk, capital flows, commodity prices or shifts in the international monetary system.
Unlike purely systematic strategies, discretionary investors can place greater
weight on events that are difficult to incorporate into historical models, including

elections, policy regime changes and geopolitical shocks. This flexibility can be
valuable around turning points, but performance depends heavily on the quality of
the investor’s judgement, timing and risk management.
How have these returns behaved? We take the average of the Barclays , Parker,
Hedge Fund Research and Bloomberg macro indices - where returns are available
- to come up with an estimate of active manager returns. We show that since 1995,

the annual return has been 2.7% on average.
Finally, the Deutsche Bank research team has been producing a tri-annual
publication of top trade "FX Blueprint" recommendations since 2008, intended to
replicate the trade recommendations that would appeal to a "traditional" macro
hedge fund. The returns of this discretionary macro portfolio are shown below and
have also been positive over time.

### Page 63

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 63
Figure 45: Active FX manager currency returns
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP [Average returns of Barclays, Parker, HFR and Bloomberg
Finance LP FX macro indices]
Figure 46: DBFX Research trade recommendations
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8% Excess returns per Blueprint
-month trades)
Source : Deutsche Bank, Bloomberg Finance LP

### Page 64

The Currency Book
Page 64 Deutsche Bank AG
Introduction
Currency exposure is unavoidable whenever assets, liabilities or cash flows are
denominated in a foreign currency. Yet the decision to hedge is not as simple as
choosing between being hedged and unhedged. What is the objective of the
hedge? How much risk should be removed, over what horizon, with what
instrument and at what cost? Every hedge involves a trade-off. It can reduce
uncertainty around portfolio returns, revenues or costs, but it also incurs direct

costs through forward points, option premia and transaction expenses, as well as
an opportunity cost if the currency subsequently moves in the hedger’s favour. This
chapter develops a framework for making those decisions. Rather than treating FX
hedging as a standalone transaction, it considers currency risk within the investor’s
total portfolio or the corporate’s full set of exposures. It examines passive and
dynamic hedge ratios, currency overlay programmes, cash-flow and balance-sheet

hedging, and the additional complications created by restricted emerging market
currencies. The central argument is that there is no universally optimal hedge ratio:
the appropriate strategy depends on the hedger’s objective, constraints,
underlying exposures and tolerance for cost and risk.
4.1 The problem of defining the hedging "objective"
So far we have looked at currency returns from the perspective of an active investor.
The objective here is clear: maximise returns. But what about market participants

where FX risk is an unwanted by-product of underlying economic exposure. While
in theory simple to understand, a hedging objective is far more complicated to
implement in practice. The first challenge is that a hedging objective is not well-
defined. An investor aims to maximise returns; a "hedger" aims to offset underlying

### Page 65

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 65
currency exposure, but to what end? The most frequent objective of hedging is to
minimise earnings volatility for a corporate or returns volatility for a passive investor
versus a benchmark. In practice, this objective faces multiple difficulties.
First, particularly for corporates, there is no widely accepted and well-defined
"benchmark" against which to measure the success or cost of a hedging decision.

Second, the objective of earnings volatility minimisation may not be achievable
because of imperfect foresight: cashflows and balance sheet exposure are not
infinitely predictable and hedgeable into the future. Third, hedging involves a cost.
There is the direct cost that needs to be paid to purchase the underlying hedging
instrument, usually in the form of forward points. There is also the indirect cost of
the "counter-factual" exchange-rate that would have prevailed had the underlying

exposure not been hedged. The simple point is that there is an opportunity cost to
hedging; and that the volatility minimisation or other objective needs to be set in the
context of this cost.
Figure 47: The broad landscape of hedging currency risk
Source : Deutsche Bank
4.2 Currency hedging for investors
Institutions with global investments face unavoidable currency exposure and
therefore currency risk. A EUR-based investor holding US equities, for example, is

exposed not only to US equity market risk but also to movements in EUR/USD.
Because exchange rates can be volatile, economically meaningful and correlated
with the underlying asset exposure, FX can materially affect overall portfolio risk
and returns.
From static hedging to portfolio-aware hedging
Traditional FX hedging has often been managed in a siloed way: investors may leave
exposures unhedged, fully hedge them, or apply a fixed hedge ratio such as 50%

### Page 66

The Currency Book
Page 66 Deutsche Bank AG
across the portfolio. While simple to implement, this approach can overlook
important interactions between currencies, asset classes and portfolio objectives.
A more integrated approach treats currency exposure as part of the total portfolio
rather than as a standalone transaction cost. This allows investors to assess
whether FX should be hedged to reduce risk, retained as a potential source of
return, or managed dynamically through an overlay strategy.

Figure 48: Currency risk – the underrated opportunity under the total portfolio approach
Source : Deutsche Bank, Grover and Anand (2026)
Dynamic FX hedging and total-portfolio risk
Currency risk management is increasingly being viewed through a holistic portfolio
lens. Grover and Anand (2026) argue that currency exposure should be assessed
within the full portfolio rather than treated as a standalone overlay.
The hedging decision can be viewed through three key considerations:

n How FX contributes to total portfolio risk.
n The cost or benefit of hedging, particularly through forward carry.
n The expected direction of spot, informed by tactical signals such as carry,
momentum and valuation.
Cost of carry is only one part of the decision. The realised cost or benefit of hedging
ultimately depends on how spot evolves over the hedging period. Grover and Anand

### Page 67

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 67
(2026) find that tactical hedging can help reduce the opportunity cost of hedging by
identifying periods when currency returns are more likely to support portfolio
performance. The main conclusions of their paper include:
n Dynamic hedging strategies can deliver stronger risk-adjusted outcomes
than static hedge ratios.
n Investors generally benefit more from prioritising portfolio volatility
reduction than maximising FX carry.

n Incorporating a view on future spot movements through currency signals
can improve risk-adjusted returns.
n Tactical signals can help reduce the opportunity cost of hedging by
selectively participating in favourable currency moves.
Why currency risk is moving up the agenda
Currency risk has often been overlooked or managed in silos, but investor interest
in more active FX management is increasing as institutions adopt a Total Portfolio
Approach (TPA) to investing. Choosing not to hedge is itself a risk decision and, if

implemented passively, can materially influence portfolio outcomes. While bond
portfolios have traditionally been hedged more actively than equity portfolios,
many institutional investors are increasingly exploring centralised management of
FX exposures across the full portfolio.
Grover and Anand (2026) identify key themes in institutional FX risk
management:
1.  Defining the objective: A fundamental question is whether currency risk
should be managed primarily to enhance returns or to improve portfolio

risk management. While FX can generate returns in certain market
environments, a hedging approach should aim to design programmes that
improve portfolio stability while preserving returns where possible.
2.  Benchmark-aware hedging:  An important theme in currency risk
management is how to manage currency risk without straying too far from
benchmark performance. Many funds are measured against market
indices that are unhedged—for example, equity portfolios often track the

MSCI World. Another common reference point is peer performance. These
practical constraints can be incorporated into a total portfolio approach
framework and may still allow for efficiency gains over standard
approaches.
3.  Hedging instruments: While forwards remain the main tool for managing
currency risk, options are becoming more widely used. Their embedded
cost efficiencies have made them increasingly attractive as a secondary
instrument. Funds that must maintain a fully hedged currency exposure

are also using options to introduce more flexibility and improve efficiency.
4.  Looking beyond direct currency holdings: A holistic view of currency risk
extends beyond the currencies directly held within a portfolio. For example,
if a fund owns a US stock whose business is materially exposed to the
Japanese yen, the fund may also have indirect yen exposure. While there
is no simple way to measure this, one possible approach is to review
company annual and quarterly reports to estimate those exposures.

5.  Private markets and uncertain cash flows: Currency management is more
difficult in private markets because the timing and size of cash flows are
uncertain. One emerging approach is to model expected private-asset

### Page 68

The Currency Book
Page 68 Deutsche Bank AG
distributions under different scenarios, using long-term currency
volatilities and correlations, and then design hedging strategies that
balance risk reduction against the carry cost of forwards and options.
6.  Cash-flow and liquidity management: A key practical issue in hedging is
managing margin calls, especially when the hedge moves against the
hedger. For example, if a currency someone is hedging against starts to

strengthen, the hedged position can experience large swings. Solutions
are emerging to help clients manage the resulting liquidity needs.
Currency overlay management
Many of these hedging approaches are implemented through currency overlay
programmes managed by specialist managers. These firms specialise in managing
the foreign exchange exposures that arise from international investment portfolios.
Their traditional role has been to implement hedging programmes for institutional

investors such as pension funds, insurance companies and asset managers,
helping to reduce the impact of currency fluctuations on portfolio returns. These
programmes are typically managed separately from the underlying investment
portfolio. Systematic currency overlay programmes can range from simple passive
hedging to more active approaches. Passive programmes maintain a predefined
hedge ratio across foreign currency exposures, while dynamic programmes adjust

hedge ratios according to predefined signals such as valuation, momentum or
carry. Some overlay managers also run currency alpha mandates, taking active
currency positions with the objective of generating returns.
4.3 Currency hedging for corporates
While many of the principles of dynamic FX hedging also apply to corporates, the
underlying hedging problem is different. Institutional investors typically hedge
currency exposure embedded within assets whose value changes over time.

Because the asset value itself fluctuates, a 100% hedge does not necessarily
eliminate risk and may even increase volatility if currency and asset returns
naturally offset one another. The objective is therefore to manage FX risk as part of
the total portfolio.
Corporates, by contrast, are usually hedging known or forecast foreign-currency
cash flows, revenues, costs, assets or liabilities. Because the size of the underlying
exposure is often known in advance, a corporate can in principle hedge a much

larger proportion of its FX risk. The challenge is therefore less about portfolio
optimisation and more about balancing risk reduction against hedging costs and
opportunity costs. While investors ask how much currency risk should be retained
within a portfolio, corporates are typically focused on how much uncertainty
around future cash flows should be eliminated and at what cost.
For corporates, the most common source of FX risk arises when purchases, sales,

assets or liabilities are denominated in a currency other than the entity's functional
currency. The main corporate hedging strategies are cash flow hedging, balance
sheet hedging and, less frequently, deal-contingent hedging linked to transactions
such as cross-border M&A.
n Cash flow hedging: This is one of the most common hedging strategies
that require hedging currency risk when the underlying item is not in the
entity's functional currency. For example, a sale that has been forecast but

has not yet happened does not get recorded on the income statement of the
company. These types of transactions that are forecast but not recorded

### Page 69

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 69
require a cash flow hedge. In this case, hedge accounting is important as
the hedge’s mark to market does not affect net income until the underlying
transaction is recorded in earnings. It does not create profit/loss volatility
during the hedging period. Hedging strategies that are commonly used to
hedge future cash flow  are the purchase or sale of FX forwards  or net
purchased options.  Let's say a US-based company  is contracted to

manufacture tyres for a German automaker. This results in a predictable
stream of euro cashflows. However, given the company's cost base is in
US dollars, it may not be able to protect its revenue margin if euro
depreciates considerably against the dollar. The company here then opts
for a cash flow hedge to protect its margins.
n Balance sheet hedging: In the example above, the company is hedging a
transaction which has not yet been recognised as a sale or expense on the

income statement. Now say the manufacturer decides to shift its cost base
to Europe by building a factory in Europe. Now, the parent company has a
EUR asset on its USD balance sheet. Once they start billing out of their EUR
subsidiary, for accounting purposes a regular balance sheet hedge may be
required as the parent company's functional currency is still USD. In
summary, this type of hedging hedges assets and liabilities on corporate
balance sheets that are not in the entity's functional currency. A typical

balance sheet hedging strategy may be rolling short dated forwards.
n Deal-contingent and M&A hedging: Continuing with the example, say the
US company instead chooses to merge or acquire a European company.
Thus, the cross-border merger and acquisition (M&A) now creates a need
for hedging the foreign currency. In certain respects, this type of hedge is
conceptually similar to cash flow hedges, as it is based on a potentially
unpredictable transaction, but with additional complexities, including

whether the underlying transaction is in stock or cash.
The corporate hedging decision
The “bottom-up” hedging decision involves a large number of parameters the
optimal mix of which is unique for each firm. While it is true that many firms share
the same basic exposure profile, each firm’s strategy can vary dramatically
depending on its objectives and constraints. Empirical investigations into the
hedging practices of multinational firms show that hedging decisions are

influenced by a large number of case-specific factors. These include accounting
treatment, competitive price concerns and recent hedging outcomes. Overall
empirical studies of corporate risk management suggest that a single, clear and
value-maximising policy for risk management is not obvious (Brown, GW 2001).
The micro hedging decision will also vary depending on market conditions. In all,
the evidence cited above argues against recommending a universally applicable

hedging programme for all firms.
The “top-down” elements of the hedging decision relate to the market drivers of FX
that we identified in the earlier sections of the report. Unlike the multiple parameters
involved in the micro hedging decision, the macro decision boils down to market
variables: where does the Treasurer or CFO expect the exchange rate(s) to be over
the relevant hedging period and how does this relate to the underlying exposure of
the firm? One approach is for the hedger to make a discretionary decision based on

his or her underlying assessment of market drivers. Another is to adopt a rules-
based approach based on the systematic excess returns we have identified in the
FX market. Such an approach would be no different to the dynamic hedging
strategy employed by a passive "profit-constrained" investor discussed in the
section above.

### Page 70

The Currency Book
Page 70 Deutsche Bank AG
Figure 49: The Hedging Decision
Source : Deutsche Bank
Dynamic FX hedging for corporates
Dynamic FX hedging differs for corporates and institutional investors. Corporates
typically hedge known exposures tied to contracted or forecast cash flows, rather
than currency risk embedded in assets whose value can grow over time. In
principle, they can remove much of this risk by hedging 100% of the identified
exposure. However, a full hedge can carry opportunity costs. For multi-currency

exposures, it may overlook diversification benefits when currency moves partly
offset one another. It can also lock in hedging costs before the full-period outcome
is known, potentially causing corporates, like institutional investors, to forgo gains
from favourable currency moves. For corporates, the hedging framework should
aim to reduce these opportunity costs without materially increasing risk.
For companies with a single-currency exposure, signal-based hedging frameworks

can be useful. Rather than relying solely on forward points, hedge decisions can
incorporate carry, momentum and valuation signals to assess whether hedging is
likely to be more or less beneficial. Grover (2024) suggests this can reduce the
opportunity cost of fully hedging, or of hedging based only on current forward
points.
For companies with multiple currency exposures, hedging becomes more
portfolio-like. Managing the joint risk of the currency basket through Value-at-Risk

or cross-currency correlation analysis can help capture diversification benefits that
a full-hedge approach may miss. Grover and Nandy (2025) show that, over recent
decades, a holistic FX framework has delivered lower-cost and higher-return
hedging outcomes than fully hedging each exposure. This result is particularly clear
for euro-based exporters, where carry costs have been higher and correlations
between euro crosses have been lower, increasing the value of a portfolio-based

approach. Overall, corporate hedging is best approached as a two-step process:

### Page 71

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 71
n Manage risk across the full currency exposure, particularly where
diversification between currencies exists.
n Use currency signals such as carry, momentum and valuation to reduce the
opportunity cost of hedging and retain some participation in favourable
currency moves.
This approach recognises that, while corporates and investors start from different
objectives, both can benefit from combining strategic risk management with

dynamic currency signals. The difference is that institutional investors seek to
optimise FX exposure within a broader investment portfolio, whereas corporates
seek to minimise uncertainty around future cash flows while controlling the cost of
doing so.
4.4 Hedging emerging market currencies
While the framework above is applicable to both G10 and EM currencies, some EM
currencies require additional consideration when hedging. In particular, currencies

that are subject to current account restrictions, capital controls, or both operate
under different market constraints. We refer to these as restricted markets. Many
of these currencies trade offshore through non-deliverable forwards (NDFs), and
foreign institutional investors and corporations have historically relied on NDFs to
hedge their currency exposures.
However, offshore markets are not always the most cost-effective venue for
hedging. On average, onshore forward curves have traded around 40 basis points

below offshore curves over the past decade. That creates a potential opportunity for
investors. By accessing onshore markets, they may be able to achieve lower
hedging costs. For currencies, where operational challenges exist, tactical hedging
via cheaper onshore forward markets can further improve hedging efficiency
(Grover, 2026 and Harvey et al., 2025).
Another important consideration when hedging EM currencies is the cross-
currency basis, which represents a hidden component of hedging costs for

corporate and institutional investors (Harvey and Friedemann, 2023). Although it
has attracted significant attention since the 2008-09 financial crisis, its role in
emerging markets is often overlooked despite being larger and more volatile than
in many developed markets. The cross-currency basis can create either costs or
opportunities for hedgers and issuers. While instruments such as cross-currency
basis swaps can be used to manage these exposures, liquidity and market access

vary considerably across EM currencies, and usage is typically concentrated at
longer tenors. As most shorter-dated EM hedging remains centred on FX forwards
and swaps, investors should remain aware of the cross-currency basis when
assessing the true cost of hedging.

### Page 72

The Currency Book
Page 72 Deutsche Bank AG
Introduction
The foreign exchange market has always evolved alongside the technologies,
institutions and regulations through which money moves across borders. Payment
systems determine which currencies are easiest to use, where liquidity
accumulates and who controls the infrastructure supporting cross-border
transactions. This final chapter considers how technology, regulation and
geopolitics may reshape FX market structure, payments and currency demand.

5.1 Technology and market structure
While electronification aimed to improve the FX market by reducing risk and
increasing efficiency, it has inadvertently introduced greater complexity and
fragmentation. This has resulted in a more decentralised and dispersed market
structure, increasing operational risks such as vulnerability to cyberattacks, even in
a traditionally liquid market like FX. Despite these challenges, technological
innovation continues to drive change. Distributed ledger technology (DLT), with its

decentralised and shared database, offers potential benefits like improved
efficiency, transparency, and reduced settlement risk. Furthermore, automation
promises cost reductions and efficiency gains in trading processes, while AI and
machine learning are being increasingly applied to price prediction, risk
management, and fraud detection. The interplay between these technological
advancements and the evolving market structure will continue to shape the future

of the FX market.
5.2 Stablecoins and payment rails as the new geopolitical battle lines
The dollar is hugely dominant in FX markets today. According to BIS, 88% of FX
transactions have a USD leg. The USD acts as a global vehicle currency. It offers the
deepest pools of liquidity which makes it cheaper to trade third currencies via their
USD crosses. The USD accounts for 50% of messages exchanged on SWIFT for
cross-border payment, and its share in trade invoicing far exceeds the US'

economic share of global trade. Cross-border USD payments today are mostly

### Page 73

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 73
intermediated through the USD correspondent banking system. Global banks are
able to transact in USD with each other because they hold accounts with large
correspondent banks that settle with each other via the Fed balance sheet in
wholesale central bank USD.
But Sachdeva and Saravelos (2025) show that the dollar correspondent banking
has been at growing risk of disruption from faster distributed ledger technology,

geopolitical competition, alternative payment systems, and underserved corridors
in the Global South. Correspondent banking still features slow settlement times,
high fees, and fractured access. Many parts of the Global South have declining
access to correspondent bank relationships due to growing AML/CFT. Combined
with the use of sanctions that cut certain countries from SWIFT, there has been
interest in developing alternative payment rails, particularly by BRICS. China has

payments on a distributed ledger.
Keeping the dollar dominant in payments and transactions will be of significant
importance to the US in a world of heightened geopolitical competition. Remaining
the preferred currency of payment is closely linked to being the currency in which
external surpluses are built. The world's willingness to save in USD in turn lowers
the cost of USD financing which is a big advantage for the US government and
corporates. To support the dollar's role in payments in the future, the US appears to

be turning to the power of distributed ledger technology and a private form of
money: stablecoins.
Stablecoins are new forms of private digital money tokens hosted on blockchains
that maintain a peg to a fiat currency. Under GENIUS Act regulation, USD
stablecoins will be fully backed by liquid, short-term USD reserves like T-bills to help
maintain their 1:1 peg with the USD. 99% of stablecoins outstanding today are
linked to the USD. They are issued and traded on distributed ledgers, making them

accessible anywhere through the internet. Their on-chain attributes mean
stablecoins offer the possibility of near-instant settlement - where all aspects of
monetary value transfer from messaging to reconciliation happen together in the
form of a ledger update. Stablecoins do however disintermediate the Fed from the
settlement process for international payments in USD. Europe and China  have
taken a very different approach thus far to digital money, concentrating more efforts

on central bank digital currencies as their response to the future of cross-border
payments.
5.3 Tokenization and programmability
Stablecoins are arguably just a subset of a broader trend towards tokenisation that
could open many new possibilities for how FX markets operate in the future.
Tokenisation is the process of creating claims on underlying money or assets, that
can then be represented as digital tokens and made transferrable on a shared
infrastructure. Stablecoins are a new type of tokenized private money, backed by

cash, bank deposits or bills. But tokenisation also extends into existing commercial
bank deposits, central bank money, and traditional assets like equities, money
markets and bonds. In the earlier section we covered how stablecoins might help
with cross-border payments, by offering 24/7 infrastructure to move USD that does
not rely on traditional banking relationships and hours. But tokenized money can
also help with other aspects of the FX settlement process - the exchange of

currencies for each other, or for assets. Because FX trading takes place primarily in
the over-the-counter market, once a trade is executed and enters the post-trade

### Page 74

The Currency Book
Page 74 Deutsche Bank AG
process there is settlement risk that is created: payment-versus-payment
mechanisms such as CLS or pre-settlement netting reduce the risk to some extent,
but tokenized money could offer another feature that addresses it more directly:
programmability.
Programmability allows certain automated rules and conditions to be embedded
into money processes. This is often implemented through smart contracts that
execute transactions when predefined conditions are met, helping improve timing

frictions, settlement risk, or the need to pre fund and trap liquidity to meet payment
obligations. In a programmable world, a payment can be released only if a
corresponding asset is transferred, or an FX transaction can settle only if both
currency legs are ready for delivery. This technology can thus support more
synchronised settlement processes, linking cash, securities and collateral
movements through predefined rules and automated execution. While tokenised

money can improve payments and settlement on a standalone basis, its full
potential may emerge when combined with increasingly tokenised securities.
Figure 50: How stablecoins might change a cross-border payment
Source : Deutsche Bank, Circle Payment Network White Paper
5.4 Concluding thoughts
The foreign exchange market is one of the most innovative and rapidly evolving
financial markets in the world. Over the past two decades, advances in technology,

electronic trading, data and market infrastructure have transformed how
currencies are traded, priced and managed, placing FX at the forefront of broader
changes in global finance. Yet because currencies sit at the intersection of national
economies, the FX market remains fundamentally connected to international trade
and cross-border investment. It is therefore increasingly exposed to the forces
reshaping the global economic landscape—from geopolitical fragmentation and

changing trade relationships to shifts in regulation, payments infrastructure and
the architecture of the international monetary system. Ultimately, the structure of
the FX market is not simply a question of how currencies trade, but of who provides
liquidity, intermediates capital and controls the financial infrastructure through

### Page 75

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 75
which money moves across borders. In that sense, the evolution of FX is
increasingly intertwined with questions of monetary sovereignty, financial
resilience and geopolitical power. One thing is therefore clear: understanding what
moves and shapes exchange rates, and the market through which they are traded,
is more important than ever.

### Page 76

The Currency Book
Page 76 Deutsche Bank AG
Appendix
Profit vs non-profit seekers in the FX market
We use the 2025 BIS Triennial Survey to update previous work and estimate the
share of FX turnover initiated with a profit-seeking currency objective. We construct
two estimates:
n A realistic scenario, applying what we deem realistic assumptions about
participants' ability and mandate to take FX risk;
n And an upper-bound scenario, which relaxes those assumptions by

classifying ambiguous transactions as profit-seeking.
We find profit-seeking activity accounts for approximately 40% of turnover under
the realistic scenario and 60% under the upper-bound scenario.
Financial participants
Dealers:
Dealer-to-dealer activity accounts for approximately 47% of total daily FX turnover
(~$4.44tn). However, treating all inter-dealer activity as speculative would
materially overstate profit-seeking demand. Much of this turnover reflects market-

making: dealers absorb client flow, manage the resulting inventory and redistribute
risk across the market. In other words, market-making activity provides liquidity to
the FX market and should not be interpreted as reflecting speculative objectives,
especially given regulatory change since 2008.17
In order to find the percentage of dealers who engage in profit-seeking behaviour,
we assume that inter-dealer transactions conducted by voice are not profit-seeking

and that only electronic transactions conducted through order-matching systems
such as EBS are profit-seeking. 18
By doing this we find that:
n 20% of dealer flow, approximately $889bn per day, goes through electronic
broking systems, as such, we class all of this as profit-seeking under our
"upper-bound" scenario. Given the impact of Dodd-Frank and the Volcker
rule on banks' proprietary activities we believe this to be a relaxed
assumption.
n Therefore, under a more realistic set of assumptions we classify half of this

17 At the same time, post-global-financial-crisis regulation has increased the balance-sheet cost of some
forms of dealer intermediation and arbitrage. Basel III introduced tighter risk-based capital
requirements alongside new liquidity and leverage constraints, including a leverage ratio that captures
both on- and off-balance-sheet exposures and derivative positions. These constraints can affect banks'
willingness and capacity to deploy balance sheets to market-making and arbitrage activities. One

important manifestation has been the persistent, although time-varying, deviations from covered
interest parity (CIP) observed since the global financial crisis, reflected in the cross-currency basis. See
Borio et al., “Covered Interest Parity Lost: Understanding the Cross-Currency Basis,” BIS Quarterly
Review, September 2016
18 More specifically, we use data from the April 2017 Federal Reserve Bank of New York FX Survey and
data from the 2025 FXJSC FX turnover survey. In the FRBNY paper, trade execution method is split

### Page 77

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 77
flow, 10% of dealer flow as profit-seeking ($444bn/day). To account for the
decline in bank proprietary trading and the importance of inventory
management within inter-dealer activity
Hedge Funds and PTFs
Hedge Funds and PTFs account for approximately $760bn (8%) of headline daily FX
turnover and are reported together in the BIS data. Traditionally, banks acted as the
primary dealers, or liquidity providers, in the decentralised OTC FX market.

However, the expansion of prime brokerage, which has facilitated client access to
primary FX trading venues such as EBS and Reuters, has allowed principal trading
firms to act not only as profit-seekers but also as liquidity providers.
We assume that:
n All hedge-fund activity is profit-seeking. Hedge funds generally have a
mandate to take FX risk, meaning that even transactions associated with
purchases and sales of foreign assets may incorporate an active currency

view.
n Because the BIS data does not disaggregate the dual role of PTFs (liquidity
providing and profit-seeking) we assume liquidity provision is 10% of the
BIS' headline "hedge fund & PTFs" $760bn figure. PTFs, we assume that
90% of headline activity is profit-seeking and 10% reflects liquidity
provision. 19
Therefore, under both the realistic and upper-bound scenario we assume that
$684bn (90% of their daily turnover) of hedge fund and PTF activity is profit-seeking.

Non-Reporting Banks
Non-reporting banks account for approximately $2.19tn, or 23% of headline daily
turnover. However, these institutions frequently intermediate transactions for
institutional investors and non-financial customers rather than representing a
separate source of final currency demand.
We assume that:
n Under our realistic (upper-bound) scenario, we assume that 90% (80%) of
this daily flow represents the fact that non-reporting banks act as an

intermediary for institutional and other non-financial customers. Therefore,
we distribute the 90%, $1.97tn of daily turnover proportionately, across
institutional investors and other non-financial customers. 20
n We therefore assume that under the realistic (upper-bound) scenario 10%
(20%) of non-reporting bank flow is profit-seeking, in line with our dealer
across two dimensions - voice/electronic and direct/indirect. We assume all voice transactions are

liquidity seeking, as well as direct electronic transactions that are conducted through single-bank
electronic trading systems. Transactions executed via voice are highly unlikely to be speculative in
nature since they typically involve large-ticket customer flow. Foreign exchange desks at banks would
be unlikely to be executing large proprietary transactions of such size which would typically take place
on electronic matching systems such as EBS. More recent data from the Bank of England finds that 20%

of reporting dealer flow goes through these electronic broking systems. We apply the final 20% figure
to the worldwide BIS survey from 2025 (10% under our more realistic set of assumptions) to come to
an estimate.
19 Our first assumption is that liquidity provision by PTFs is largely dominated by the spot market. We
therefore focus on Hedge fund and PTF volumes from spot trading. According to BIS 45% of Hedge

### Page 78

The Currency Book
Page 78 Deutsche Bank AG
assumptions.21
Institutional investors:
Institutional investors account for $1.26tn of daily BIS turnover and present the
most difficult classification challenge. After reallocating the relevant flow
intermediated by non-reporting banks, their estimated turnover increases to
$2.56tn under the realistic scenario.
We assume that:
n First, given that BIS data does not divide institutional-investor turnover
according to the underlying asset class we instead use US Treasury

International Capital (TIC) data on gross cross-border purchases and sales
of securities to estimate the relative contribution of fixed-income and equity
portfolios. 22 This adjustment produces an estimated asset-allocation split
of 63% equities and 37% fixed income.
n Second, considering this asset allocation split, we use Morning Star and ICI
data on the share of passive versus active investment funds. We estimate
that approximately 45% of equity assets and 60% of fixed-income assets

are actively managed. Passive investors consist of index or benchmark-
tracking funds and we assume they are active in FX on a transactional non-
profit-seeking basis. Active investors aim to outperform a stated
benchmark or offer unconstrained positive returns. In practice, this type of
investor would still face limits on the amount of exchange-rate risk that can
be taken but for the purposes of this exercise we assume all "active"
investor flow is profit-seeking in FX.

Putting this together we find that:
Using the US TIC data, it implies an asset allocation split of 66% equity and 34%
fixed income split. As per data from Morningstar and ICI, 45% of those equities will
be actively managed, compared with 60% of those fixed income holdings.
n Under our upper-bound scenario, we assume that all of these actively
managed holdings are with firms that are mandated to take FX risk. This
implies that approximately 50% of institutional-investor turnover, or around

$1.28tn per day, is profit-seeking.
n Under the realistic assumption, active management of the underlying
portfolio does not necessarily imply an active currency mandate. An
investor may actively select foreign bonds or equities while remaining
required to hedge the associated FX exposure mechanically. So, instead of
assuming all actively managed equities and fixed income assets are with
funds that are mandated to take FX risk, we assume 80% of active fixed-

income managers have discretion to take FX risk and 50% of active equity
Fund and PTF volume comes from spot trading. We assume that this is split 50/50 between Hedge
Funds, an upper-bound estimate. Further, we also find that 30% of PTF trading can be attributed to
market making. Together, these assumptions leave us with an estimate of approximately 10% liquidity
provision.
20 We do not allocate a share to hedge funds or the official sector, which are more likely to transact directly

with large reporting dealers.
21 Recent evidence shows that a proportion of non-reporting bank activity is growing https://
www.greenwich.com/market-structure-technology/behind-market-structure-future-nblp-landscape,
as is their share of profit-seeking activity. As a result of their growing importance, we apply the same
split as we do for dealers.
22 TIC data reports (1) monthly purchases and sales of domestic and foreign securities by security type

### Page 79

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 79
managers have discretion to take FX risk. This implies a profit-seeking share
of approximately 30% under the realistic scenario. Applied to $2.56tn of
institutional-investor turnover, this would equal approximately $800bn per
day.
Official Sector
The official sector includes central banks, sovereign wealth funds and international
financial institutions. Its activity accounts for approximately 1%–2% of headline FX

turnover. The motivations within this category vary. Central-bank intervention may
pursue monetary-policy, financial-stability or exchange-rate objectives, while
reserve managers may also seek to preserve capital and earn returns.
We therefore divide official-sector activity evenly between the two categories
under both realistic and upper-bound scenarios.
n We classify 50% of the turnover as profit-seeking. Because official-sector
activity represents a small share of aggregate turnover, the final result is

relatively insensitive to this assumption.
Non-Financial Sector:
Corporates and governments
After allocating non-reporting-bank turnover, estimated non-financial-customer
activity is equivalent to around $952 bn per day in the realistic scenario and $896 bn
in the upper-bound scenario.
We assume that:
n Corporates use FX to settle foreign-currency revenues and expenses,
finance cross-border activity, hedge forecast cash flows and manage
earnings volatility. Governments similarly transact to meet an underlying

funding or expenditure requirement. We classify all non-financial-
customer turnover as liquidity-seeking under both scenarios.
Other
The BIS residual “other” category accounts for approximately 2% of headline
turnover. It includes activity for which the underlying participant or motivation
cannot be identified precisely, including some retail-driven flow. Retail and other
residual transactions can serve both speculative and transactional purposes.

Some investors trade currencies to earn returns, while other transactions relate to
travel, remittances or purchases of foreign assets. We assume that:
n We classify 100% as profit-seeking under the upper-bound scenario and
50% as profit-seeking under the realistic scenario.
Undistributed
(Table 4). and; (2) foreign holdings of US securities, split between official and private investors and by
asset class ( Table B). Because we assume official-sector investors have different profit-seeking

incentives from private institutional investors, we exclude their activity from the asset-class split. When
doing so we find the proportion of institutional investors transacting in fixed income vs equity markets.

### Page 80

The Currency Book
Page 80 Deutsche Bank AG
Final residual category accounts for less than 1% of headline turnover. Because
there is insufficient information to identify its underlying motivation, we classify
this turnover as
n 100% liquidity-seeking rather than assume that it represents directional
risk-taking. The treatment has little effect on the aggregate result because
the category is very small.
Bringing it all together:
Taken together, under our realistic assumptions the current model estimates that

approximately 40% of adjusted FX turnover is profit-seeking, while approximately
60% is liquidity-seeking or transactional.
Under the upper-bound assumptions , the split is approximately 60% profit-
seeking and 40% liquidity-seeking.

### Page 81

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 81
Glossary of terms
A
n Algorithmic trading (AT) — Automated trading in which a computer
algorithm decides the order-submission strategy.
n Alpha — Return generated by skill or active judgement in excess of a
benchmark or of systematic factor exposure, as pursued by discretionary
currency managers.
n American-style option — An option that can be exercised at any point up to
expiry.
n At-the-money (ATM) — An option whose strike is at or near the prevailing

spot/forward rate.
B
n Balance sheet hedge — A corporate hedge of assets or liabilities on the
balance sheet that are denominated in a currency other than the entity's
functional currency.
n Balassa–Samuelson effect — Theory that faster productivity growth in the
tradable sector raises wages and non-tradable prices, generating real
exchange-rate appreciation.
n Barrier option — An option whose payoff is activated (knock-in) or
extinguished (knock-out) when spot reaches a specified level.

n Basel III — Post-crisis bank regulation introducing tighter capital, liquidity
and leverage requirements that raise the balance-sheet cost of dealer
intermediation and arbitrage.
n Basic balance — A measure combining the current account with the
slowest-moving financing flows (net FDI, and sometimes long-term
portfolio flows) to gauge underlying currency demand.
n Basis point (bp) — One hundredth of a percentage point (0.01%).
n Behavioural Equilibrium exchange-rate (BEER) — An equilibrium model

estimating the exchange-rate implied by economic fundamentals through
panel regression.
n Beta (FX beta) — The systematic, rules-based return available from generic
currency factor exposures such as carry, momentum and value.
n Bid-ask (bid-offer) spread — The difference between the price at which a
dealer buys (bid) and sells (offer); a frictional cost of trading and the market
maker's compensation.
C
n Call option — The right, but not the obligation, to buy one currency against

another at a predetermined strike price.
n Capital controls — Official restrictions on cross-border capital movements,
common in restricted and emerging-market currencies.
n Capital-weighted PPP — A valuation approach that weights currencies by
cross-border financial exposures rather than by trade, reflecting the

### Page 82

The Currency Book
Page 82 Deutsche Bank AG
geography of portfolios.
n Carry / carry trade — Borrowing a low-yielding currency to invest in a
higher-yielding one to earn the interest differential; historically profitable
but with negative skew and crash risk.
n Central Bank Digital Currency (CBDC) — A digital form of central-bank
money.
n Central Counterparty / Central Clearing Counterparty (CCP) — Financial
market infrastructure that interposes itself between buyer and seller,

becoming the buyer to every seller and the seller to every buyer, reducing
counterparty risk.
n Commodity currencies — Currencies of major commodity exporters (e.g.
AUD, NZD, CAD) whose real exchange-rates have strong long-run
relationships with world commodity prices.
n Commodity Futures Trading Commission (CFTC) — The US derivatives
regulator; source of the IMM speculative-positioning data used to gauge FX
positioning.
n Commodity Trading Advisor (CTA) — A systematic macro manager trading

diversified futures across asset classes, including currencies, typically via
exchange-traded futures.
n Continuous Linked Settlement (CLS) — An independent multi-currency
payment-versus-payment settlement system that mitigates FX settlement
risk by settling both legs simultaneously and netting payments.
n Convenience yield — The safety and liquidity premium global investors
derive from holding US Treasuries, which supports the dollar; measurable

via the Treasury basis.
n CORAX — Categorised ORderflow from Autobahn FX — Deutsche Bank's
categorised indicators built from globally aggregated electronic spot order
flow.
n Covered Interest Parity (CIP) — The no-arbitrage condition that the forward
premium/discount equals the interest-rate differential; held almost exactly
until 2008.
n Cross-currency basis — The extra spread, over and above the interest
differential, of borrowing dollars synthetically through the FX swap market;

reflects structural dollar-funding demand.
n Cross-currency swap (XCCY) — A swap that exchanges principal in two
currencies at inception and maturity and also involves periodic interest
payments in each currency over the life of the contract.
n Cryptocurrency — A digital asset secured through cryptographic and
distributed-ledger technologies, such as Bitcoin.
n Currency board — A hard-peg regime in which domestic currency issuance
is rigidly backed by foreign reserves at a fixed rate, tightly constraining

monetary policy.
n Currency overlay — A programme, often run by specialist managers, to
manage the FX exposures arising from an international investment
portfolio, separately from the underlying assets.
n Current account — The balance of a country's trade and income flows; a key
medium-run anchor summarising the gap between national saving and
investment.

### Page 83

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 83
D
n Dark pool — A venue with hidden order books that matches buy and sell
interest at a venue-calculated midpoint (e.g. BGC MidFX, FXSpotStream
MidMatch).
n Deal-contingent / M&A hedge — A hedge linked to a potentially
unpredictable transaction such as a cross-border merger or acquisition.
n Dealer — A large commercial or investment bank (or securities house) that
makes markets and trades in the inter-dealer market for proprietary

purposes and to meet customer demand.
n Delta — The change in an option's value for a change in spot; also used to
describe moneyness (e.g. 0–25 delta is out-of-the-money).
n Depository Trust & Clearing Corporation (DTCC) — Operator of a major
swap data repository that captures a substantial share of global
institutional FX option activity.
n Deutsche Bank Currency Returns Index (DBCR) — A 2007 index packaging
transparent, rules-based carry, momentum and valuation strategies into an

investable currency 'beta'.
n Deutsche Bank Equilibrium exchange-rate (DBeer) — DB's proprietary
behavioural-equilibrium model using the terms of trade, a productivity ratio
and trade openness; performs better in emerging markets.
n Discretionary manager — An investor who takes active currency positions
based on judgement rather than a purely systematic, rules-based process.
n Dodd-Frank — The US post-crisis regulatory framework; includes the
Volcker Rule and OTC-derivative reporting requirements.

n Dollarisation — Use of another country's currency as legal tender, which
largely eliminates independent national monetary policy.
n Dornbusch overshooting — Model in which sticky goods prices cause the
exchange-rate to overshoot its long-run level on impact before reverting,
explaining excess FX volatility.
n Drawdown — The peak-to-trough decline in the value of a strategy or
portfolio.
n Dutch disease — A situation in which a commodity boom raises the real

exchange-rate and erodes the competitiveness of a country's other
tradable sectors.
E
n EBS — A primary inter-dealer electronic broking venue, historically central
to banks' inventory management.
n Effective spread — A transaction-cost measure inclusive of slippage and
fees, giving a more realistic picture of liquidity than quoted depth alone.
n Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) — The theory that asset prices fully
reflect available information.
n Electronic Communication Network (ECN) — A third-party electronic

venue that both streams prices and matches buy and sell orders.
n Electronification — The shift of FX trading from voice to electronic
execution across both the inter-dealer and dealer-client segments.
n Emerging markets (EM) — Developing-economy currencies, often subject

### Page 84

The Currency Book
Page 84 Deutsche Bank AG
to capital controls, higher basis volatility and offshore NDF trading.
n EPIC+ — Deutsche Bank's positioning framework aggregating direct
measures (CFTC/IMM) and indirect measures (CORAX, inter-dealer
orderbook, risk reversals, DTCC options).
n Equilibrium exchange-rate — The exchange-rate consistent with economic
fundamentals and internal/external balance; estimated via frameworks
such as FEER, BEER and DBeer.

n European-style option — An option that can be exercised only at expiry.
n External Balance Assessment (EBA) — The IMF methodology that
estimates current-account and REER 'gaps' using several complementary
approaches.
F
n Fama regression — A test  of UIP that regresses realised exchange-rate
changes on the interest differential (or forward premium); typically yields a
slope below one — the forward-premium puzzle.
n Flash crash — A sudden, severe and short-lived price dislocation,

increasingly studied alongside the electronification of markets.
n Foreign Direct Investment (FDI) — The stickier, long-horizon component of
external financing, reflecting the partial illiquidity of direct ownership.
n Forward (FX forward) — A contract to exchange currencies at a future date
at an exchange-rate agreed today.
n Forward points — The forward premium or discount added to spot; the
direct carry cost or benefit of hedging with a forward.

n Forward premium puzzle — The robust empirical finding that high-yield
currencies tend on average to appreciate rather than depreciate, making
the carry trade profitable and contradicting UIP.
n Functional currency — The primary currency in which an entity operates
and reports; FX risk arises from items denominated in other currencies.
n Fundamental Equilibrium exchange-rate (FEER) — The real exchange-rate
consistent with the economy operating at internal and external balance.

n FX swap — A contract combining a spot exchange of currencies with a
reverse exchange at a later date; the largest FX instrument by turnover and
effectively collateralised borrowing.
G
n G10 — The group of major, most liquid developed-market currencies.
n Gamma — The rate at which an option's delta changes with spot; long-
gamma dealers dampen volatility while short-gamma dealers amplify
moves through their hedging.
n GENIUS Act — US legislation requiring USD stablecoins to be fully backed

by liquid, short-term USD reserves (such as T-bills) to maintain a 1:1 peg
with the dollar.
n Give-up — The process by which a trade executed by a client is transferred
('given up') to its prime broker, becoming two matching trades.
n Global financial cycle — Rey's concept in which the US dollar and global
risk appetite drive worldwide leverage, capital flows and financial

### Page 85

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 85
conditions.
H
n Hedge accounting — Accounting treatment that defers a hedge's mark-to-
market so it does not affect net income until the underlying transaction is
recorded in earnings.
n Hedge ratio — The proportion of an exposure that is hedged; typically sticky
and adjusted in cycles, and an increasingly first-order driver of FX.
n Herstatt risk — See Settlement risk.
n High-frequency trading (HFT) — Very high-speed algorithmic trading, often

conducted by principal trading firms.
I
n Implied volatility — The market's expected volatility embedded in option
prices; the price of protection against exchange-rate movements.
n In-the-money (ITM) — An option that has intrinsic value because its strike
is favourable relative to spot.
n Inter-dealer market — The 'inner tier' in which dealers trade among
themselves to manage inventory imbalances; no longer exclusive to banks.
n Intermediary asset pricing — A framework in which exchange-rates are set

at the margin by constrained financial intermediaries with limited, time-
varying risk-bearing capacity.
n Internalisation — Dealers matching offsetting client flow on their own
books rather than hedging externally, which has reduced their share of
inter-dealer trading.
n International Monetary Market (IMM) — The CME division whose weekly
CFTC futures positioning data are used to proxy speculative positioning in
FX.
n Intervention — Central-bank buying or selling of a currency to influence the

exchange-rate; most effective when large, public, communicated and
aligned with fundamentals.
K
n Knock-in / knock-out option — Barrier options that are activated (knock-in)
or cancelled (knock-out) when spot reaches a predetermined level.
L
n Last look — A brief window (typically milliseconds) allowing a liquidity
provider to accept or reject a trade request after receiving it; prohibited on
primary venues.
n Leverage ratio — A non-risk-weighted Basel III capital constraint capturing

both on- and off-balance-sheet exposures and derivative positions.
n Liquidity consumer (seeker) — A participant that takes liquidity to meet an
underlying need, such as corporates, real-money investors and retail.
n Liquidity firmness — The certainty of execution at a quoted price; reduced
by the use of last look on secondary venues, MDPs and SDPs.

### Page 86

The Currency Book
Page 86 Deutsche Bank AG
n Liquidity mirage — The appearance of depth created by aggregated but
potentially inaccessible liquidity spread across fragmented venues.
n Liquidity provider (LP) — A participant that supplies two-way prices to the
market, principally banks and some PTFs.
M
n Market maker / market making — Providing two-way prices and capturing
the bid-offer spread; a liquidity-providing service rather than a source of the

'excess returns' from proprietary trading.
n Market microstructure — The study of how the trading process itself
conveys information and moves prices.
n Meese-Rogoff puzzle — The 1983 finding that structural exchange-rate
models cannot out-forecast a naive random walk out of sample, even given
realised fundamentals.
n Momentum — A factor and technical signal based on the tendency of price
trends to persist.
n Monetary model — An exchange-rate model based on relative money

supplies and interest rates; in modern form it uses the monetary policy
reaction function and Taylor-rule fundamentals.
n Multi-dealer platform (MDP) — A venue that lets clients request quotes
(RFQs) from multiple dealers at once (e.g. FX Connect, FXall, 360T); it bears
no inventory risk.
N
n Net Foreign Assets / Net International Investment Position (NFA / NIIP) —
A country's external assets minus its liabilities; a long-run anchor for the real
exchange-rate.

n Nominal exchange-rate — The quoted price of one currency in terms of
another.
n Non-deliverable forward (NDF) — A cash-settled forward for a restricted
currency, settled (usually in USD) against a fixing rather than by physical
delivery.
n Non-deliverable option (NDO) — A cash-settled option on a restricted, non-
deliverable currency pair.
n Non-reporting banks — Smaller banks that do not report turnover directly
to the BIS and largely intermediate for institutional and non-financial

customers.
O
n Official sector — Central banks, sovereign wealth funds, international
financial institutions (IMF, BIS), development banks and government
agencies.
n One-touch / no-touch option — Options that pay a fixed amount depending
on whether spot does (one-touch) or does not (no-touch) reach a
predetermined level during the option's life.
n Order flow — Signed transaction volume (buyer-initiated minus seller-
initiated trades); the proximate driver that aggregates dispersed

### Page 87

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 87
information into price.
n Out-of-the-money (OTM) — An option with no intrinsic value (0–25 delta);
the band favoured by hedgers.
n Over-the-counter (OTC) — Bilateral trading conducted away from an
exchange; the dominant structure of the FX market.
P
n Payment-versus-Payment (PvP) — The simultaneous exchange of both
currency legs of a trade, which eliminates settlement risk (e.g. through
CLS).
n Positioning — The stock of existing long and short currency exposures held

by investors; most useful as a contrarian signal at extremes and a measure
of market vulnerability.
n Pre-trade anonymity — The degree to which counterparties remain
unknown to each other before execution; highest on exchanges and lowest
on fully disclosed MDPs/SDPs.
n Prime brokerage (PB) — An arrangement in which a bank lends its credit
standing and trading relationships to a client, separating execution from
credit provision.
n Principal Trading Firm (PTF) — A lightly capitalised non-bank firm (e.g. XTX

Markets, Citadel Securities) that trades for its own account and also makes
markets, often via HFT.
n Programmability — The embedding of automated rules and conditions into
money, usually via smart contracts, enabling conditional and synchronised
settlement.
n Proprietary trading — Profit-seeking trading with a firm's own capital;
heavily constrained for banks by the Volcker Rule.
n Purchasing Power Parity (PPP) — The theory that exchange-rates adjust so

that identical baskets of goods cost the same across countries; a powerful
long-run anchor but a poor short-run timing tool.
n Put option — The right, but not the obligation, to sell one currency against
another at a predetermined strike price.
R
n Random walk — A price process with no predictable drift; the benchmark
that FX forecasting models struggle to beat at short horizons.
n Real effective exchange-rate (REER) — A trade-weighted measure of a

currency's real value against a basket of trading partners.
n Real exchange-rate — The nominal exchange-rate adjusted for relative
price levels; it mean-reverts under PPP in the long run.
n Real interest-rate differential — The nominal interest differential adjusted
for expected or realized inflation; the more relevant concept for medium-
run valuation (Frankel's real-interest-differential model).
n Real money investors — Mutual funds, pension funds, insurance

companies and endowments that buy currencies to satisfy end-user
demand for underlying assets.
n Reporting dealers — The major banks that report turnover to the BIS; their

### Page 88

The Currency Book
Page 88 Deutsche Bank AG
share of spot trading has fallen as internalisation has grown.
n Request for Quote (RFQ) — A request from a liquidity consumer to a
liquidity provider for the price to buy or sell a specified currency pair,
amount and settlement date.
n Request for Stream (RFS) — A continuous flow of quotes for a specified size
and duration (such as a trading day) — in effect a continuous RFQ providing
real-time price updates.

n Restricted markets — Currencies subject to capital controls and/or current-
account restrictions, often traded offshore through NDFs.
n Risk reversal — The implied-volatility difference between an out-of-the-
money currency call and an equivalent-delta put; a gauge of skew and
directional demand.
S
n Settlement risk (Herstatt risk) — The risk of paying out one currency in an
FX trade without receiving the other, arising from settlement across time

zones; mitigated by PvP/CLS.
n Sharpe ratio — A measure of risk-adjusted return, defined as excess return
per unit of volatility.
n Single-dealer platform (SDP) — A bank's own electronic platform for direct
client trading (e.g. Deutsche Bank Autobahn), integrated within the bank's
risk-management function.
n Skew Volume Indicators (SVA / SVO) — Deutsche Bank indicators built from
DTCC data that separate investor flows (at-the-money, SVA) from hedger

flows (out-of-the-money, SVO).
n Slippage — The difference between the expected price of a trade and the
price at which it is actually executed.
n Smart contract — Self-executing code that performs a transaction
automatically when predefined conditions are met.
n Spot / FX spot — The purchase or sale of one currency against another for
near-immediate delivery, typically settling two business days later (T+2).
n Stablecoin — A digital token that maintains a peg to a fiat currency (about

99% are USD-linked), backed by reserves; a potential conduit for dollar
demand.
n Standardised Approach for Counterparty Credit Risk (SA-CCR) — A
regulatory approach for measuring counterparty credit risk on derivatives,
relevant when comparing cleared and bilateral margining.
n Sterilised intervention — Central-bank intervention offset by a domestic
money-market operation so that the money supply is left unchanged.
n Straight-through processing (STP) — The automated, end-to-end

matching, confirmation and settlement of trades.
n Strike price — The predetermined exchange-rate at which an option can be
exercised.
n Swap Data Repository (SDR) — A CFTC-registered repository to which in-
scope OTC FX derivatives must be reported under Dodd-Frank.
n Systematic investor — A manager who translates observable data into
positions through a repeatable, rules-based portfolio-construction and
risk-management process.

### Page 89

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 89
T
n T+1 / T+2 — Settlement one or two business days after the trade date; spot
normally settles T+2, while USD/CAD settles T+1.
n Taylor rule — A monetary-policy reaction function relating the interest rate
to inflation and the output gap; central to modern monetary models of the
exchange-rate.
n Technical analysis — Forecasting future price moves from patterns in past
market data rather than fundamentals (e.g. moving averages, momentum,

support and resistance).
n Terms of trade — The price of a country's exports relative to its imports; a
key real-exchange-rate driver for commodity-exporting economies.
n Tokenization — The process of creating transferable digital tokens that
represent claims on underlying money or assets on a shared infrastructure.
n Top-of-book spread — The best (tightest) bid-offer spread available on a
venue; used to track FX market quality over time.
n Total Portfolio Approach (TPA) — Managing currency exposure as an

integral part of the whole portfolio rather than as a standalone overlay or
transaction cost.
n Treasury basis — The yield gap between US government bonds and
currency-hedged foreign government bonds; a measure of the dollar's
convenience yield.
n Treasury International Capital data (TIC) — US data on gross cross-border
purchases and sales of securities, used to split investor turnover between
fixed income and equities.
U
n Uncovered Interest Parity (UIP) — The condition that the expected change

in the exchange-rate equals the interest-rate differential; strongly rejected
in the data, which underpins the carry trade.
V
n Value (valuation factor) — A strategy that goes long undervalued and short
overvalued currencies relative to an equilibrium anchor such as PPP or
DBeer.
n Value-at-Risk (VaR) — A statistical estimate of the potential loss on a
position or portfolio over a horizon at a given confidence level; used in
portfolio hedging.
n Vanilla option — A standard call or put option with no exotic features.

n Voice trading — Trade negotiation by telephone or messaging rather than
electronic systems; classified as voice-direct or voice-indirect (via a broker).
n Volatility smile — The pattern of implied volatility across option strikes,
conveying the market's perceived balance of tail risks.
n Volcker Rule — A Dodd-Frank provision (implemented 2014–15) banning
banks from most proprietary trading, including many foreign-exchange
instruments.

### Page 90

The Currency Book
Page 90 Deutsche Bank AG
Bibliography
Albuquerque, R. (2003). The  composition of international  capital flows:  Risk
sharing through foreign direct investment. Journal of International  Economics,
61(2), 353–383.
Anderegg, B., Ulmann, F., and Sornette, D. (2022). The impact of option hedging on
the spot market volatility. Journal of International Money and Finance, 124, 102627.
Andersen, T. G., Bollerslev, T., Diebold, F. X., and Vega, C. (2003). Micro effects of

macro announcements: Real-time price discovery in foreign exchange. American
Economic Review, 93(1), 38–62.
Ang, A., and Chen, J. S. (2010). Yield curve predictors of foreign exchange returns.
Working paper, Columbia Business School and UC Davis.
Asness, C. S., Moskowitz, T. J., and Pedersen, L. H. (2013). Value and momentum
everywhere. Journal of Finance, 68(3), 929–985.
Avdjiev, S., Du, W., Koch, C., and Shin, H. S. (2019). The dollar, bank leverage, and

deviations from covered interest parity. American Economic Review: Insights, 1(2),
193–208.
Bank for International Settlements (2018). Monitoring of fast-paced
electronic markets. BIS Markets Committee Papers, No. 10, September.
Bank for International Settlements. (2022). Triennial Central Bank Survey of Foreign
Exchange and Over-the-counter (OTC) Derivatives Markets in 2022. October.
Bank for International Settlements. (2025). Triennial Central Bank Survey of Foreign

Exchange and Over-the-counter (OTC) Derivatives Markets in 2025.
Baxter, M. (1994). Real exchange-rates  and real interest differentials:  Have we
missed the business-cycle relationship? Journal of Monetary Economics, 33(1), 5–
37.
Bjønnes, G. H., Osler, C. L., and Rime, D. (2011). Sources of information advantage
in the foreign exchange market. Typescript, Norges Bank.
Bjønnes, G. H., Rime, D., and Solheim, H. O. A. (2005). Liquidity provision in the

overnight foreign exchange market. Journal of International Money and Finance,
24(2), 177–198.
Bordo, M. D., Choudhri,  E. U., Fazio,  G., and MacDonald, R. (2017). The  real
exchange-rate in the long run: Balassa-Samuelson effects reconsidered. Journal of
International Money and Finance, 75, 69–92.
Breeden, D. T., and Litzenberger, R. H. (1978). Prices of state-contingent claims
implicit in option prices. The Journal of Business, 51(4), 621–651.

Brown, G. W. (2001), Managing foreign exchange risk with derivatives, Journal of
Financial Economics, vol. 60(2-3), 401-448.
Brunnermeier, M. K., Nagel, S., and Pedersen, L. H. (2009). Carry trades and

### Page 91

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 91
currency crashes. NBER Macroeconomics Annual, 23, 313–347.
Bruno, V., and Shin, H. S. (2015). Cross-border banking and global liquidity. Review
of Economic Studies, 82(2), 535–564.
Burnside, C., Eichenbaum, M., Kleshchelski, I., and Rebelo, S. (2011). Do peso
problems explain the returns to the carry trade? Review of Financial Studies, 24(3),
853–891.
Bussière, M., Chinn, M. D., Ferrara, L., and Heipertz, J. (2022). The New Fama

Puzzle. IMF Economic Review, 70(3), 451–486.
Butz, M., and Oomen, R. (2018). Internalisation by electronic FX spot dealers.
Quantitative Finance, 19(1), 35–56.
Campa, J. M., Chang, P. H. K., and Reider, R. L. (1998). Implied exchange-rate
distributions: Evidence from OTC option markets. Journal of International Money
and Finance, 17(1), 117–160.
Cartea, A., Jaimungal, S., and Walton, J. (2019). Foreign exchange markets with
last look. Mathematics and Financial Economics, 13(1), 1–30.

Chaboud, A., Rime, D., and Sushko, V. (2023). The foreign exchange market. In
Research Handbook of Financial Markets (pp. 253–275). Edward Elgar Publishing.
Chen, Y.-C., and Rogoff, K. (2003). Commodity currencies. Journal of International
Economics, 60(1), 133–160.
Chen, Y.-C., Rogoff, K. S., and Rossi, B. (2010). Can exchange-rates forecast
commodity prices? Quarterly Journal of Economics, 125(3), 1145–1194.
Chinn, M. D., and Prasad, E. S. (2003). Medium-term determinants of current

accounts in industrial and developing countries: An empirical exploration. Journal
of International Economics, 59(1), 47–76.
Christensen, K., R. C. A. Oomen, and R. Ren`o, 2017, “The Drift Burst Hypothesis,”
Working paper.
Clark, P. B., and MacDonald, R. (1998). exchange-rates and economic
fundamentals: A methodological comparison of BEERs and FEERs. IMF Working
Paper 98/67.
Della Corte, P., Riddiough, S. J., and Sarno, L. (2016). Currency premia and global

imbalances. Review of Financial Studies, 29(8), 2161–2193.
Drehmann, M., and Sushko, V. (2022). The global foreign exchange market in a
higher-volatility environment. BIS Quarterly Review, December, 33–48.
Dornbusch, R. (1976). Expectations and exchange-rate dynamics. Journal of
Political Economy, 84(6), 1161–1176.
Du, W., Tepper, A., and Verdelhan, A. (2018). Deviations from covered interest rate
parity. Journal of Finance, 73(3), 915–957.

### Page 92

The Currency Book
Page 92 Deutsche Bank AG
Égert, B., Drine, I., Lommatzsch, K., and Rault, C. (2003). The Balassa-Samuelson
effect in Central and Eastern Europe: Myth or reality? Journal of Comparative
Economics, 31(3), 552–572.
Égert, B., Halpern, L., and MacDonald, R. (2006). Equilibrium exchange-rates in
transition economies: Taking stock of the issues. Journal of Economic Surveys,
20(2), 257–324.
Engel, C. (2016). exchange-rates, interest rates, and the risk premium. American

Economic Review, 106(2), 436–474.
Engel, C., and West, K. D. (2005). exchange-rates and fundamentals. Journal of
Political Economy, 113(3), 485–517.
Evans, M. D. D., and Lyons, R. K. (2002). Order flow and exchange-rate dynamics.
Journal of Political Economy, 110(1), 170–180.
Evans, M. D. D., and Lyons, R. K. (2006). Understanding order flow. International
Journal of Finance and Economics, 11(1), 3–23.
Fama, E. F. (1984). Forward and spot exchange-rates. Journal of Monetary

Economics, 14(3), 319–338.
Fama, E. F. (1970). Efficient capital markets: A review of theory and empirical work.
The Journal of Finance, 25(2), 383–417. https://doi.org/10.1111/j.1540-
6261.1970.tb00518.x.
Feldstein, M., and Horioka, C. (1980). Domestic saving and international capital
flows. The Economic Journal, 90(358), 314–329.
Ferraro, D., Rogoff, K., and Rossi, B. (2015). Can oil prices forecast exchange-rates?
An empirical analysis of the relationship between commodity prices and exchange-

rates. Journal of International Money and Finance, 54, 116–141.
Frankel, J. A. (1979). On the mark: A theory of floating exchange-rates based on real
interest differentials. American Economic Review, 69(4), 610–622.
Frankel, J. Saravelos, G (2012). Can leading indicators assess country vulnerability?
Evidence from the 2008–09 global financial crisis, Journal of International
Economics, Elsevier, vol. 87(2), pages 216-231
Fratzscher, M., Gloede, O., Menkhoff, L., Sarno, L., and Stöhr, T. (2019). When is

foreign exchange intervention effective? Evidence from 33 countries. American
Economic Journal: Macroeconomics, 11(1), 132–156.
Feridun, M. (2014). Chapter 3: Mundell-Fleming Model. PowerPoint presentation,
SlideServe, 31 October. Available at: https://www.slideserve.com/jessamine-frye/
chapter-3-mundell-fleming-model-asst-prof-dr-mete-feridun (accessed 9
September 2026).
Froot, K. A., and Thaler, R. H. (1990). Anomalies: Foreign exchange. Journal of

Economic Perspectives, 4(3), 179–192. https://doi.org/10.1257/jep.4.3.179
Gabaix, X., and Maggiori, M. (2015). International liquidity and exchange-rate

### Page 93

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 93
dynamics. Quarterly Journal of Economics, 130(3), 1369–1420.
Gopinath, G., Boz, E., Casas, C., Díez, F. J., Gourinchas, P.-O., and Plagborg-Møller,
M. (2020). Dominant currency paradigm. American Economic Review, 110(3), 677–
719.
Gopal, S., Baker, T., and Dynan, L. (2025). An overview of developed market hedge
ratios and currency exposure. Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, June.
Gourinchas, P.-O., and Rey, H. (2007). International financial adjustment. Journal of

Political Economy, 115(4), 665–703.
Greenwood, R., Hanson, S. G., Stein, J. C., and Sunderam, A. (2023). A quantity-
driven theory of term premia and exchange-rates.  The Quarterly Journal of
Economics, 138(4), 2327–2389.
Grover, R. et al. (2019). FX Special Report: Flash, Aargh! What Happens to FX
Markets Around Flash Crashes? Deutsche Bank Research, July.
Grover, R. (2020). FX liquidity is collapsing. Deutsche Bank FX Report, March.
Grover, R. (2021). Role of hedge funds in the FX market: Discretionary vs systematic

traders. Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, October.
Grover, R. (2024). Unlocking Value with Dynamic FX Hedging, Deutsche Bank
Research, September.
Grover, R., Nandy, S., Charles, A., and Xu, J. (2024). Fading the crowd in FX: Still
profitable? Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, October.
Grover, R. (2025). A deep dive into long-term value investing: PPP and Dbeer
models. Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, January.
Grover,R. and Saravelos, G. (2025). The Brilliant World of FX - A Primer.

Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, March.
Grover,R. and Nandy, A. (2025).Riding the FX Frontier: Optimizing Currency Hedge
Ratios. Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, May.
Grover, R. (2025), FX Clearing Today, FX Special Report, Deutsche Bank Research,
July.
Grover,R. (2026). The Brilliant World of FX: A deep dive into restricted markets.
Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, March.
Grover,R. and Anand, V. (2026). Dynamic FX Portfolio Hedging: A deep dive and

why you should use it. Deutsche Bank FX Special Report, April.
Grover,R. and Anand, V. (2026). Currency Risk Management: From Theory to
Practice. Deutsche Bank FX Report, June.
Gubler, M., and Sax, C. (2019). The  Balassa-Samuelson effect reversed: New
evidence from OECD countries. Swiss Journal of Economics and Statistics, 155, 3.

### Page 94

The Currency Book
Page 94 Deutsche Bank AG
Hafeez, B. (2007). Benchmarking currencies: The Deutsche Bank Currency Returns
(DBCR) Index. Global Markets Research, Deutsche Bank, 29 March.
Hassan, T. A., and Mano, R. C. (2019). Forward and spot exchange-rates in a multi-
currency world. Quarterly Journal of Economics, 134(1), 397–450.
Hau, H., and Rey, H. (2006). exchange-rates, equity prices, and capital flows. The
Review of Financial Studies, 19(1), 273–317.

Harvey, O., and Friedemann, A. (2023). Basis Jumper: A Guide to the Hidden
Hedging Costs in EM FX Markets. Deutsche Bank EM Special Publication, October.
Harvey, O., et al. (2025). A stronger footing: EM Currency and Local Markets
Handbook 2025. Deutsche Bank EM Special Report, October.
Hendershott, T., & Riordan, R. (2012). High frequency trading and price discovery.
Working paper. Berkeley: University of California
Itskhoki, O., and Mukhin, D. (2021). exchange-rate disconnect in general

equilibrium. Journal of Political Economy, 129(8), 2183–2232.
Jackson, K., & Magkonis, G. (2024). exchange-rate predictability: Fact or fiction?
Journal of International Money and Finance, 142, 103026
Jeffrey A. Frankel’s The International Financial Architecture, Brookings Policy Brief
No. 51, June 1999
Jiang, Z., Krishnamurthy, A., and Lustig, H. (2021). Foreign safe asset demand and
the dollar exchange-rate. Journal of Finance, 76(3), 1049–1089.

Kearns, J., & Manners, P. (2004). The profitability of speculators in currency futures
markets. Reserve Bank of Australia Research Discussion Paper, RDP 2004-07
King, M., Sarno, L., and Sojli, E. (2010). Timing exchange-rates using order flow: The
case of the Loonie. Journal of Banking and Finance, 34(12), 2917–2928.
King, M. R., Osler, C., and Rime, D. (2012). Foreign exchange market structure,
players, and evolution. Handbook of exchange-rates, 1–44.

Lane, P. R., and Milesi-Ferretti, G. M. (2004). The transfer problem revisited: Net
foreign assets and real exchange-rates. The Review of Economics and Statistics,
86(4), 841–857.
Levich, R. M., and Thomas, L. R. (1993). The significance of technical trading rule
profits in the foreign exchange market: A bootstrap approach. Journal of
International Money and Finance, 12, 451–474.
Lothian, J. R., and Taylor, M. P. (2000). Purchasing power parity over two centuries:

Strengthening the case for real exchange-rate stability. Journal of International
Money and Finance, 19(5), 759–764.
Lustig, H., Roussanov, N., and Verdelhan, A. (2011). Common risk factors in
currency markets. Review of Financial Studies, 24(11), 3731–3777.

### Page 95

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 95
Lustig, H., Roussanov, N., and Verdelhan, A. (2014). Countercyclical currency risk
premia. Journal of Financial Economics, 111(3), 527–553.
Manahov, V., Hudson, R., and Gebka, B. (2014). Does high frequency trading affect
technical analysis and market efficiency? And if so why? Journal of International
Financial Markets, Institutions and Money, 28, 131–157.
Meese, R. A., and Rogoff, K. (1983). Empirical exchange-rate models of the

seventies: Do they fit out of sample? Journal of International Economics, 14(1–2),
3–24.
Meese, R. A., and Rogoff, K. (1988). Was it real? The exchange-rate–interest
differential relation over the modern floating-rate period. Journal of Finance, 43(4),
933–948.
Menkhoff, L. (2013). Foreign exchange intervention in emerging markets: A survey
of empirical studies. The World Economy, 36(9), 1187–1208.
Menkhoff, L., and Taylor, M. P. (2007). The obstinate passion of foreign exchange

professionals: Technical analysis. Journal of Economic Literature, 45(4), 936–972.
Menkhoff, L., Sarno, L., Schmeling, M., and Schrimpf, A. (2012a). Carry trades and
global foreign exchange volatility. Journal of Finance, 67(2), 681–718.
Menkhoff, L., Sarno, L., Schmeling, M., and Schrimpf, A. (2012b). Currency
momentum strategies. Journal of Financial Economics, 106(3), 660–684.
Menkhoff, L., Sarno, L., Schmeling, M., and Schrimpf, A. (2016). Information flows

in foreign exchange markets: Dissecting customer currency trades. Journal of
Finance, 71(2), 601–634.
Molodtsova, T., and Papell, D. H. (2009). Out-of-sample exchange-rate
predictability with Taylor rule fundamentals. Journal of International Economics,
77(2), 167–180.
Moore, M., Schrimpf, A., and Sushko, V. (2016). Downsized FX markets: Causes
and implications. BIS Quarterly Review, December, 35–51.
Neely, C. J., Weller, P. A., and Dittmar, R. (1997). Is technical analysis in the foreign

exchange market profitable? A genetic programming approach. Journal of
Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 32, 405–426.
Nenova, T., Schrimpf, A., and Shin, H. S. (2025). Global portfolio investments and
FX derivatives. BIS Working Paper 1273.
Nolte, I., and Nolte, S. (2009). Customer trading in the foreign exchange market:
Empirical evidence from an Internet trading platform. Working Paper 09-01, FERC.
Obstfeld, M., and Zhou, H. (2022). The global dollar cycle. Brookings Papers on

Economic Activity, Fall 2022, 361–447.
Okunev, J., and White, D. (2003). Do momentum-based strategies still work in
foreign currency markets? Journal of Financial and Quantitative Analysis, 38, 425–
447.

### Page 96

The Currency Book
Page 96 Deutsche Bank AG
Osler, C. L., and Vandrovych, V. (2009). Hedge funds and the origins of private
information in currency markets. Typescript, Brandeis University.
Pfahler, J. F. (2022). exchange-rate forecasting with advanced machine learning
methods. Journal of Risk and Financial Management, 15(1), 2
Phillips, S., Catão, L., Ricci, L., Bems, R., Das, M., Di Giovanni, J., et al. (2013). The
External Balance Assessment (EBA) methodology. IMF Working Paper 13/272.

Rey, H. (2015). Dilemma not trilemma: The global financial cycle and monetary
policy independence. NBER Working Paper 21162.
Ricci, L. A., Milesi-Ferretti, G. M., and Lee, J. (2013). Real exchange-rates and
fundamentals: A cross-country perspective. Journal of Money, Credit and Banking,
45(5), 845–865.
Rogoff, K. (1996). The purchasing power parity puzzle. Journal of Economic
Literature, 34(2), 647–668.
Rossi, B. (2013). exchange-rate predictability. Journal of Economic Literature,

51(4), 1063–1119.
Sachdeva, M., Saravelos, G. (2025). What do stablecoins mean for dollar
dominance? Deutsche Bank, September.
Saravelos, G., et al. (2018). A Guide to FX as an Asset Class. Deutsche Bank.
Saravelos, G (2025). Beware a dollar confidence crisis, Deutsche Bank, April.
Shin, H. S., Wooldridge, P., and Xia, D. (2025). The US dollar's slide in April 2025: the
role of FX hedging. BIS Bulletin 105.
Schrimpf, A., and Sushko, V. (2019). FX trade execution: Complex and highly

fragmented. BIS Quarterly Review, December, 39–51.
Sweeney, R. J. (1986). Beating the foreign exchange market. Journal of Finance, 41,
163–182.
Taylor, A. M., and Taylor, M. P. (2004). The purchasing power parity debate. Journal
of Economic Perspectives, 18(4), 135–158.
Taylor, M. P., & Allen, H. (1992). The use of technical analysis in the foreign exchange
market. Journal of International Money and Finance, 11(3), 304–314
Tica, J., and Družić, I. (2006). The Harrod-Balassa-Samuelson effect: A survey of

empirical evidence. EFZG Working Paper 06-07, University of Zagreb.
Verdelhan, A. (2018). The share of systematic variation in bilateral exchange-rates.
Journal of Finance, 73(1), 375–418.
Vo, H. L., and Vo, D. H. (2023). The purchasing power parity and exchange-rate
economics half a century on. Journal of Economic Surveys, 37(2), 446–479.
Weng, C., and Grover, R. (2017). Option flows matter: Introducing the Deutsche

### Page 97

The Currency Book
Deutsche Bank AG Page 97
Bank Skew Volume Indicators. Deutsche Bank Markets Research Special Report,
September.
Williamson, J. (1994). Estimating Equilibrium exchange-rates. Institute for
International Economics, Washington, DC.
Winkler, R. (2017). PPP misalignment half-lives (referenced in Grover, 2025).
Deutsche Bank FX Research.
Winkler, R. (2022). Topsy Curvy: the term structure threat to the US dollar, Deutsche
Bank, November.

Other Sources
Artificial Intelligence has been used to generate and/or enhance certain diagrams
and parts of the text in this handbook, including the cover image.

### Page 98

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
The Currency Book  – September 29, 2026

---
## Document 396: 【天然資源產業攻略】地緣或關稅戰影響天然資源

Source PDF: all report pdf/【天然資源產業攻略】地緣或關稅戰影響天然資源.pdf
Report source: CTBC
Date: 2026-09-11
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
地緣或關稅戰影響天然資源
分析師／林珍安
研究範疇／能源/ 原物料
天然資源產業投資攻略
出 刊 日 : 2026/9/11
熱門議題 / 投資關鍵
《受地緣風險升級油價短期偏上，但中期走弱》
依彭博預估OPEC 8月原油產量，月減90萬桶/日，
平均達到1,944萬桶/日，約低於戰前700萬桶/日，
結束連兩個月的產量回升 ，主要受到美伊衝突及 紅
海運輸干擾。OPEC+10月產出配額維持 9月規模，
預計目前配額將持續至今年年底 ，然而實際產出狀
況仍受荷姆茲海峽 、紅海運輸及攻擊事件影響 ，下
一輪恢復最後一套 200萬桶/日的額外減產措施將在
明年視市況調整 。荷姆茲海峽運輸經由黑暗過境 、
繞道延布 +富查伊拉港 ，依高盛及運輸單位推估流

通量可達過去1/2以上，全球原油庫存主要下降在海
上、戰略儲備及中國 ，加上如巴西 、美國、委內瑞
拉、蓋亞那等國增產 ，全球可見 庫存雖降至76-77
億桶間，但仍有商業原油庫存可因應 。受美伊衝突
升高，使荷姆茲海峽通航量變數再起，布油突破百
市場投資展望
資產 4Q26看法 投資展望
能源 負向 隨衝突升高，短期油價偏上行，但若降溫將回落。成品油供應緊張，
偏好煉油廠。
原物料 中立 PE短多，美鋼價受高關稅保護，較偏好銅、金礦商，但留意銅關稅政
策。
• 能源：隨衝突升高，短期油價偏
上行，但若降溫將回落。成品油
供應緊張，偏好煉油廠。
pg1
• 原物料：PE短多，美鋼價受高關
稅保護，較偏好銅、金礦商，但
留意銅關稅政策。
pg3
重點摘要
本月關鍵圖表
資料來源：UBS，2026/9/5，中國信託商業銀行彙整，
2026/9/7
• 受美伊衝突升高 ，提高運輸
不確定風險 ，短期油價偏上
行，但若降溫或找到解決方
案，油價將回落。
1
荷姆茲海峽原油運輸量回升，但因戰事生變數

百
萬
桶
/
日
經由霍爾木茲海峽及繞道輸送的石油
原油 黑暗過境 石油產品 繞道延布+富查伊拉

### Page 2

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
美元，若波及更多中東能源設施受損或荷姆茲海峽
封鎖，將使油價短期仍偏上行風險 ，但若衝突緩 解
或找到應對方案，預期可回至90美元之下。
《天然氣價格：美 持平或略低於 去年，歐洲偏上行 》
美國鑽井活動回升後持平 ，增加較多在天然氣 ，但
外輸能力受限使庫存逐月增加 ，隨美國新的液化天
然氣出口工廠逐漸上線 ，將逐漸改善管道瓶頸 ，七
月庫存雖高於五年均值5.2%，但低於七月的6.7%。
1H26美液化天然氣 (LNG)出口量平均為 174億立方
英尺/日，YOY+23%，預估2H26與上半年量相同 ，
1H27再增加，預估美國4Q26天然氣價格將季節性
走升，持平或略低於去年。卡達能源LNG船已開始
準備出口 ，但目的地非歐洲 ，歐洲儲氣量雖拉升 ，

但僅達 67%，遠低於過往 ，TTF價格大漲吸引運往
亞洲的LNG轉往歐洲，預期4Q26 TTF價格仍有上行
風險 ，但若荷姆茲海峽運力回升速度快於預期 ，
TTF價格將回落。
重點摘要
• 天然氣：美國天然氣出口增
加，庫存增速下降 ，使4Q26
美國天然氣價格 持平 或略低
於去年同期；歐洲因庫存偏
低的回補需求將使天然氣價
格偏上行。
• 成品油供應緊張 ，柴油裂解
價差保持強勁 ，有利煉油商 。
• 預期綜合油企 、煉油廠雖因
汽油淡季使 4Q26 獲 利 低 於
3Q26，但獲利年比仍大幅成
長，維持股東回報 ，較看好
煉油商。
下圖/受產能下降，柴油利潤率維持高檔
資料來源：高盛，2026/8/28，中國信託商業銀行彙整，2026/9/7
2
《成品油供應緊張，有利維持高煉油利潤》
受煉油廠關廠 ，煉油產能因俄烏 、中東戰事受損 ，
成品油供應比原油更緊張 ，美國汽、柴油庫存年比
減少，估計全球煉油廠開工率年減 700萬桶/日以上，
遠高於過去區間 ，在供應減少下 ，柴油利潤保持強

勁，美國煉油廠產能利用率已拉高到 98%高檔，雖
因4Q26汽油淡季使獲利季比下滑，但年比仍大幅成
長，其下行風險在於川普要求煉油商降價。
《4Q26能源類股較看好煉油廠》
預估美綜合油企 4Q26受惠油價高於預期 、LNG出
口增加，柴油高裂解價差 ，但進入汽油需求淡季 ，
獲利季比下滑 ，但年比仍大幅成長 ，現金流仍強大 ，
維持資本紀律及股東回報 。但在消息面上 ，受成品
油較原油供應吃緊，4Q26煉油商柴油價差仍佳，較
看好煉油商。

### Page 3

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
《預期4Q26商品化學短多，特化獲利持穩》
2Q26支撐乙烯高獲利的地緣運輸中斷與集中檢修效
應在第三季逐步消退 ，整體獲利呈現常態化回調 ，
受3Q26北美聚乙烯 (PE)合約價格下調壓制 Q3整體
樹脂變現均價，獲利較Q2下滑。展望第四季受進入
去化庫存的需求淡季 ，採購策略轉為按需補庫 ，但
因油價上漲，有利成本較低的美國 PE出口報價由跌
轉漲，獲利可能略為上修 ，呈短多。就塗料，其股
價與利率呈負相關 ，利率升股價下跌 ，雖受惠定價
力、室內裝修與新成屋交屋塗裝 ，但因氣候影響戶
外漆銷售及 DIY市場疲軟 ，Q4獲利較 Q3下滑 ，但
YOY仍成長。水資源處理商維持銷售成長及調漲價
格轉嫁成本上揚 。工業氣體受惠定價力及合約保護 ，

4Q26獲利變動較低，年增率呈現中高個位數成長。
資料來源：JP Morgan，2026/9/4 ，中國信託商業銀行彙整，2026/9/10
下圖/乙烷基乙烯3Q26利潤承壓
重點摘要
• 化學：受布油價格上漲 ，PE
出口報價可能由跌轉漲呈短
多。
• 鋼鐵：美鋼廠受高關稅保護 、
鋼價上漲 ，預估4Q26獲利優
於預期 。中國政策支持加速
建設，預期支撐4Q26鐵礦砂
價。
《4Q26美鋼價上漲；政策支撐4Q26鐵礦砂價》
七月美國鋼廠出貨量低於六月 ，但仍優於去年同期
5.4%，受鋼價調漲，今年美國進口鋼材量逐季增加 ，
進口市占率預估七月提高1%至18%，累積七月市占
率約16%，境內開工率約 81%，已在過去循環相對
高點。美對加拿大進口商品徵收的 50%關稅範圍 ，
部分新稅率疊加在原有的 232條款50%關稅之上 ，
推升美境內鋼價進一步走升，預期4Q26美鋼廠財報
將優於預期，但因淡季因素，獲利將低於3Q26。中
國重點城市推出放寬買房限制 、買房補貼和提高貸
款成數等政策 ，使中國百大房企今年前七月銷售同

比降幅較前六月收窄 ，今年上半年製造業 、基礎設
施投資同比也下降 ，八月發改委督促地方政府加速
重大計畫建設 ，將加快新增專項債發行速度 ，也推
出延長房貸年限至 40年，預期9月旺季來臨 ，鋼廠
產能利用率提升 ，預期製造業及基建領域為今年中
國鋼鐵需求成長動能 ，中國港口鐵礦砂庫存微降 ，
有利支支撐4Q26鐵礦砂價。然受澳、巴鐵礦砂出口
3
美
分
/
磅
美
分
/
磅

### Page 4

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
增加，預期西芒杜產出增加 ，明年鐵礦砂價格走弱 。
《非美吃緊支撐銅價高檔，關稅徵收與否為變數》
雖預期印尼、澳洲銅礦復產4Q26供給增加，但因擔
憂美2027年對銅加徵關稅使美囤積庫存持續走升 ，
降低非美供給呈吃緊，LME、中國SHFE銅庫存走低
推升銅價創高，預期4Q26銅價維持高檔，但若美味
加徵關稅，則為銅價的上行壓力。
資料來源：彭博，2026/9/4，中國信託商業銀行彙整，2026/9/10
下圖/受美囤積銅庫存，非美地區銅供給降
重點摘要
• 擔憂美徵銅關稅使美囤積庫
存，非美呈現吃緊 ，將使銅
價維持高檔 ，但若未增加關
稅為上檔壓力。
• 黃金：預估 短期升 息預期變
化而承壓 ，但去交易對手風
險 及 多 元 化 資 產 配 置 仍 使

4Q26金價上行。
4
《預期金價短期承壓，但中期仍看升》
近月金價歷經美國就業數據好壞參半 、美伊衝突情
勢升級，推升升息預期，美國計畫加大回購美國長
期國債規模 ，但低於市場預期 ，長期公債殖利率上
升，美元走弱等多空影響 ，本月金價在 4300-4600
美元間震盪 。目前美伊衝突由軍事增加經濟制裁 ，
川普認為期中選舉後可結束伊朗戰爭 ，變數仍多 ，
預期通膨放緩變慢 ，至明年才有較大回落 。但本行
研判應該不會升息 ，若美伊衝突帶來的不利因素漸
放緩，FED轉鴿派或市場縮減升息轉降息預期；受
擔憂債務可持續性 、分散交易對手風險及多元化資
產配置，中國人行加大購金步伐 ，據調查45%受訪
央行認為將未來一年內 將增加黃金儲備 ，年底可望
進入黃金需求旺季，維持金價中期上行。
資料來源：世界黃金協會，2026/9/3，中國信託商業銀行彙整，2026/9/10
下圖/今年全球央行購金量仍呈現淨買超
千
噸 千
噸
全球央行月購金量
全球主要交易所銅庫存

---
## Document 406: 【特別報告】風險管理式升息而非緊縮週期，景氣成長趨勢不變

Source PDF: all report pdf/【特別報告】風險管理式升息而非緊縮週期，景氣成長趨勢不變.pdf
Report source: CTBC
Date: 2026-09-17
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及
訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以下市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。投資建議均依市場變動而差異，投資前請務必留意市場最新訊息。本資料提及之經
濟走勢預測，不必然代表產品之績效，產品投資風險請詳閱產品說明書。
2026.9.17
特別報告-
風險管理式升息而非緊縮週期，景氣成長趨勢不變

### Page 2

©  CTBC
風險管理式升息而非緊縮週期，景氣成長趨勢不變
2資料來源：高盛，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/17
◼ 貨幣政策與殖利率： 基準情境認為年底前再升
息一碼後，2027上半年進入按兵不動的觀察期 ，
2027年下半年有望轉向寬鬆立場 。推演殖利率
4Q26偏高表現、1H27適度回落。
◼ 投資建議： 股市估值有壓不表示趨勢路徑改變 ，
上半年資金雨露均霑的普漲行情可能逐漸降溫 ，
但獲利能見度高 、基本面持續改善的族群 ，仍
可望獲得資金青睞並展現相對優勢。
熱門議題/資產影響推估 市場焦點
➢ 風險管理式升息而非緊縮週期： 9月FOMC會議全
票通過升息一碼至 3.75%-4.0%，這是自2023年7
月以來的首次升息 。預料2026年底再升息一碼 ，
其後進入觀察期。
➢ 殖利率4Q26偏高表現 、1H27適度回落 ，股市短
線估值有壓 ：美債殖利率通常要等確認升息到頂
後才會回落 ，市場往往在升息前因政策不確定性
而較為震盪；然而 ，一旦後續經濟數據確認景氣
仍處於擴張軌道 ，即使估值面受到利率壓抑 ，企

業獲利成長仍有望成為推動股市續漲的主要動能 。
升息前後的股市震盪不影響趨勢
• 盤勢回顧-聯準會升息落地，股債市
未見明顯衝擊
P3
• 貨幣政策-再升息一碼後進入觀察期 P4
• 美債利率-4Q26維持高位整理 P5
• 市場觀點-股市估值有壓但行情有撐 P6-P7
熱門議題
市場影響
啟動升息
平均報酬
中位數報酬
啟動升息前後的標普500指數走勢(統計過去7次升息週期)

### Page 3

©  CTBC
聯準會升息落地，股債市未見明顯衝擊
全球投資級債因利率上升而承壓，非投資級債穩健
盤勢回顧
股市情緒受到影響但未失控
3
• 升息預期推高公債及信用債殖利率，但升息落地後有趨穩現象：早在聯準會利率會議召開前夕，市場不斷出現
升息聲浪，推高10年期公債利率一度站上5%，壓抑9月以來信用債市表現，尤其以投資級債表現最為弱勢，也
拖累全年總報酬率轉負 ，但利差走勢其實相當平穩 ，８月以來美投資級債利差大致在 75~85基點區間震盪 。
FOMC會議後公債利率略自高檔回落，並沒有因為升息而持續創高，信用債市殖利率也趨於穩定。
• 股市情緒受到影響但未失控 ：9月以來股市情緒受到一定程度影響 ，不過並未出現恐慌情緒 ，僅利率敏感性類
股震盪較大，非核心消費之外的類股年至今仍多收正報酬。聯準會升息落地後，股市單日跌幅也可控。
資料來源：左， Bloomberg ，2026/9/17，右，Bloomberg，2026/9/17。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/17
-10%
-5%

0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
世
界
指
數
標
普500
指
數
新
興
指
數
科
技
非
核
心
消
費
金
融
地
產
能
源
公
用
事
業
健
護
YTD 9月以來
股市主要指數報酬率
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
新
興
非
投
資
級
美
非
投
資
級
債
新
興
當
地
債
歐
非
投
資
級
新
興
主
權
債
歐
投
資
級
債
美
投
資
級
債
新
興
投
資
級
債
今年以來 9月以來
信用債市主要指數報酬率

### Page 4

©  CTBC
風險管理式升息，而非典型的升息循環重新啟動
2026年底前預期還有一次升息
貨幣政策
通膨廣度其實已有所收斂，預期此一趨勢將延續
4
• 風險管理式升息 ，而非典型的升息循環重新啟動 ：9月FOMC會議全票通過升息一碼至 3.75%-4.0%，這是自
2023年7月以來的首次升息。本次會議的重點可歸納如下：(1)利率預估點陣圖顯示至2026年底前還有一碼的升息
空間；(2)上調通膨與經濟成長預估值，同時下調失業率，是一個很鷹派的組合，不過調整幅度其實很小，2026
年的整體PCE通膨和核心PCE通膨僅上調0.1個百分點；(3)判斷本次會議並非典型的升息循環重新啟動，而是「不
承諾路徑的風險管理式升息」。
• 年底前再升息一碼後進入觀察期 ：搭配利率預估點陣圖，以及本行對2027年通膨走勢的判斷(8月的CPI數據已
經看到通膨廣度已經有收斂態勢，搭配本次升息，預期此一趨勢將延續，2Q27通膨有望降至2.5%以下)，本行
基準情境認為年底前再升息一碼後，2027上半年進入按兵不動的觀察期，2027年下半年有望轉向寬鬆立場。

資料來源：左， Fed ，2026/9/17，右，Robin Brooks，2026/9。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9
CPI和PCE通膨中的類別，月增率(年化)高於3%的比重
經濟成長率
6月預估
失業率
6月預估
PCE通膨
6月預估
核心PCE通膨
6月預估
政策利率
6月預估
聯準會經濟預測(SEP)

### Page 5

©  CTBC 
推演殖利率4Q26偏高表現、1H27適度回落
市場初步反應: 長率未進一步上揚
美債利率
美債殖利率通常要等確認升息到頂後才會回落
5
• 聯準會升息證明公信力，美債市場大致正向表現：9月FOMC會議前市場已先定價升息，而使得美國10年期公債
殖利率來到5%以上，而在FOMC會議後短率上揚、長率大致穩定，顯示市場主要重新定價近期政策變動，而非同
步大幅上修長期通膨或長期利率風險，是一項相對正面的訊號。
• 推演殖利率4Q26偏高表現、1H27適度回落：根據歷史經驗，美債殖利率通常要等確認升息到頂後才會回落，
4Q26在鷹派論調+期中選舉+高油價的影響下，研判美國10年期公債殖利率維持偏高水位 。2027年隨通膨放
緩，市場確認停止升息後，美債殖利率將適度回落。預估未來兩季美國10年期公債殖利率的區間將處於4.5%-
5.1%，美國30年期公債殖利率則在 5.1%-5.5%之間。尾端風險是「後續的升息不斷超過市場預期 」，不過在
油價不持續失控向上的情況下，尾端風險的機率並不高。
資料來源：左， Bloomberg ，2026/9/17，右，3FOURTEEN，2026/9。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/17
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
2026/6/1 2026/7/1 2026/8/1 2026/9/1
美國2年期公債殖利率
美國10年期公債殖利率
美國3個月公債殖利率
本次升息Jackson hole
轉鷹派
7月會議
篇鴿派
— 美國2年期公債殖利率
— 美國10年期公債殖利率
— 聯準會政策利率

1986升息 1988升息 1994升息
1999升息 2004升息 2015升息
2022升息

### Page 6

©  CTBC
股市估值有壓未改變趨勢路徑，選股回歸獲利能見度
景氣擴張與企業獲利成長週期尚未結束
市場觀點
資料來源：(左) Bloomberg，2026/9/17；(右) Bloomberg，2026/9/15 。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/17
利率居高下壓縮估值，資金將在不同主題間挪移
6
貨幣供給 vs. 景氣與企業盈餘
43
45
47
49
51
53
55
57
59
-30%
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026
全球製造業PMI 美歐M1貨幣供給YOY
美歐日中進口 YOY MXWO EPS YOY
4Q26~
4Q27
彭博社
預估值
美國歐洲
日本
台灣
印度
成熟市場
中國
東協
科技
非核心…
核心…
金融 能源
原物料
工業
公用事業健護
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
-2 0 2 4 6 8
2026年獲利YOY上修幅度(%)
2027年獲利YOY上修幅度(%)

註: 紅-科技鏈、綠-受戰爭影響、紫-受惠戰爭、黑-其他、藍色-獲利穩健
過去一個月企業獲利預估值變化
AI成長趨勢
受惠戰爭
• 景氣擴張週期尚未結束 ，升息對股市影響有限 ：9月FOMC決議升息一碼，但股市反應相對有限 。一方面，市
場已提前消化升息預期；更重要的是，過去一年全球景氣維持穩定擴張，且前景仍偏正向。回顧過往景氣擴張
階段的升息循環，市場往往在升息前因政策不確定性而較為震盪；然而 ，一旦後續經濟數據確認景氣仍處於擴
張軌道，即使估值面受到利率壓抑，企業獲利成長仍有望成為推動股市續漲的主要動能。
• 估值壓縮，選股回到獲利能見度：在股市策略方面，現階段獲利成長動能最強的仍是受惠於 AI長期趨勢的科技
供應鏈。部分科技股已於7至8月率先修正整理，不僅評價壓力有所緩解，也提供較具吸引力的布局機會。不過，
中東地緣衝突尚未落幕，加上國際油價維持高檔，使國防、能源等受惠地緣局勢的族群，成為兼具主題性與避
險特性的配置選擇。整體而言，在聯準會重啟升息的環境下，上半年資金雨露均霑的普漲行情可能逐漸降溫，

但獲利能見度高、基本面持續改善的族群，仍可望獲得資金青睞並展現相對優勢。

### Page 7

©  CTBC
基本面穩健有助降低信用債波動，美元短線路徑轉強
利率走升環境下以非投資級債表現較穩定
市場觀點
資料來源：(左) Fed，2026/9/17；(右) ICE BofA indices，2026/9/16 。中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/17
• 基本面穩健態勢不變，有助穩定信用債利差：FOMC會議證實美國經濟韌性，在景氣成長及企業獲利正向循環
未結束前，穩健債信將支持信用債利差走勢持穩，雖然目前美國公債利率已大致反應升息預期，但政策不確定
性仍牽動短線較大波動，利率敏感度較低的非投資級債預期將有相對突出的表現 ，而高利率及高債信品質的族
群則可長期持有以息收為主，而外幣債與美國雙政策連動性較低，新當債與澳幣債走勢可望回歸自身貨幣政策。
• 貨幣政策路徑上修帶動美元走強：美元已從2026年初的降息交易轉向受到美伊戰爭、油價上漲及通膨預期升溫
支撐，但此波強勢更多來自地緣政治與高利率環境 ，而非美國基本面出現結構性轉強 。Fed本次升息後美元指
數當日上升約0.6%，美元指數再度回測100。從聯準會官員利率點陣圖判斷，短期利率路徑較先前預期偏高，

支撐美元表現；惟在通膨回穩後 ，貨幣政策仍有機會重新轉向較寬鬆立場 。留意4Q26共和黨失去絕對多數後
對財政樽節的預期，美元短線路徑轉強。美元指數目標價從97上修至99。
聯準會利率點陣圖有所上修
7
美投資級
美非投資級
歐投資級
歐非投資級
新興主權
新興投資級
新興非投資級
新興當地債
澳幣企業債
2
3
4
5
6
7
3 4 5 6 7 8殖利率%
存續期間(年)
利率敏感度低
美國政策
關連性低
債信品質佳族群
3.4
3.1 3.1 3.1
3.8
3.6 3.4
3.1
4.1 4.1
3.9
3.6
3.2
2.7
2.9
3.1
3.3
3.5
3.7
3.9
4.1
2026 2027 2028 2029 LT
聯準會官員利率點陣圖中位數
2026/3 2026/6 2026/9

### Page 8

©  CTBC 8
近期重點投資分析報告
2026/6/8【特別報告】
地緣與央行變數為焦點，高槓桿放大市場波動(完整報告請點)
2026/7/31【特別報告】
ＡＩ族群去槓桿投資交易，將加速市場輪動機會(完整報告請點)
2026/8/31【中信策略觀點】
景氣韌性與高利率拉鋸＿多元配置參與市場輪(完整報告請點)
2026/7/15【趨勢主題】
２０２６年下半年全球金融市場展望
高利新常態下的經濟成長韌性(完整報告請點)
2026/9/2【特別報告】
高利率環境短期難解，基本面穩健有助支撐股債市(完整報告請點)

---
## Document 413: 【金融產業攻略】ＡＩ企業資金需求躍升為美金融業營收成長催化劑

Source PDF: all report pdf/【金融產業攻略】ＡＩ企業資金需求躍升為美金融業營收成長催化劑.pdf
Report source: CTBC
Date: 2026-09-11
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
AI企業資金需求躍升為美金融
業營收成長催化劑
熱門議題 / 投資關鍵
• AI企業融資需求和市值成長在投
資銀行收入成長中發揮核心作用 pg1
• 市場預期股票市場成長依然強勁，
FICC市場成長放緩 pg2
• 規模效應、資產負債表彈性驅動
資本市場收入步入健康增長 pg2
• 存貸業務續成長，利息收入朝市
場樂觀預期發展 pg3
重點摘要
本月關鍵圖表
• 高盛預期投行三大業務呈週期
中期成長。科技(尤其是AI相關)
驅動股權市場，預估2026年美
國IPO籌資額創2,250億美元新
高。AI融資與併購復甦亦將引
領債權與諮詢業務，且今年迄
今過半的交易量與費用成長皆
由AI交易驅動。
• 市場預期股票市場仍會有亮眼
表現，因股票融資利差翻倍、

IPO回溫與個股波動率上升活絡
了市場。而FICC市場因低波動
限制了中介收入。
• 近年來資本市場因資產與股債
規模擴張、SLR改革及規模經濟
顯著成長，ROE隨之上升。高
盛預估2026至2028年成長將放
緩但仍維持健康增長。
市場投資展望
資產 4Q26看法 投資展望
金融 正向 AI驅動股債與併購復甦，資本市場將迎來週期中期健康成長，存貸款業務成長延續
1
《人工智慧(AI)基礎設施公司融資需求和市值的成
長在近期投資銀行收入成長中發揮了核心作用》
高盛預期投資銀行三大業務領域均會實現成長 ，並
處於週期中期。在諮詢業務方面，預期未來12個月
併購交易量將成長 19%；股權資本市場(ECM)方面，
近期成長主要得益於強勁的科技業 (尤其是 AI相關
產業)活動，其中科技類 ECM貢獻了年初至今成長
的約75%，高盛預期成長將持續 ，估計2026年美
國IPO籌資額將達到 2,250億美元的年度新高紀錄；
而債權資本市場 (DCM)的增長主要會由 2大因素推
動，(1)AI相關融資規模龐大 ，其中相當一部分預

計將轉化為 DCM的業務量 ，(2)基於對企業併購交
易量持正向看法 ，這亦將為 DCM提供強大支撐 。
因併購活動中有很大一部份會依賴債務融資。
高盛預估今年迄今為止，併購、股權資本市場和債
權資本市場交易量及費用的合計增長中，約有
分析師／陳嘉琳
研究範疇 金融／非核心消費
金融產業投資攻略
出 刊 日 : 2026/9/11
資料來源：GS，2026/9/8，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/9
預計2026年美國IPO總募資額將創新高紀錄
美國IPO總募資額(單位：10億美元)

### Page 2

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
吸納量
重點摘要
2
50~55%是由AI相關交易驅動的 。眼下Claude開發
商Anthropic何時上市就成為市場焦點 ，目前市場
推估最快10月中展開首次公開發行(IPO)的推介活動，
並可能在11月美國期中選舉前數日掛牌上市 。此案
被 視 為 史 上 規 模 最 大 的 IPO 案之一 ， 緊 接 在
Anthropic之後還會有OpenAI。
《市場預期股票市場成長依然強勁 ，固定收益 、外
匯及大宗商品(FICC)市場成長放緩》
銀行交易收入能否延續今年上半年強勁表現 ，其持
續性取決於市場水平 、融資利差和波動性 。從結構
上來看，可交易流通股數的增長帶動了交易量 ，進
而推升了客戶資金融通該持股所需的槓桿額度 ，通

常透過大宗經紀業務進行。
正向的週期性效益包括：股票融資利差是 2020年第
三季的三倍 ，反映出股票槓桿需求已超越產業產能；
首度公開發行(IPO)的回溫活絡了次級市場交易；個
股波動率升幅高於大盤指數波動率 ，為客戶創造更
大的超額報酬(Alpha)機會並提升參與度。故高盛預
期2026~2028年美國大型銀行股票市場複合年增長
率將達到 5~7%，但同期間 FICC市場的複合年增長
約為2~4%，這是因為市場波動性較低 ，限制了中
介活動。
《規模效應 、資產負債表彈性驅動資本市場收入步
入健康增長》
自 2019 年 以 來 資 本 市 場 收 入 加 速 成 長， 2019 至
2026年產業費用池複合年增率 (CAGR)將達 11%，
高盛預測 2026至2028年將放緩至 4%，雖說放緩但
仍維持健康增長 。這項成長主要歸功於可交易資產
池的擴張 ，以及全球債務和股權市場規模的擴大 ，
而非利潤率的提高，大型銀行交易資產自 2019年以
來成長約 110%，同期利潤率基本持平 。此外，自

2025年11月補充槓桿率 (SLR)改革實施以來 ，銀行
受惠於資產負債表更大的彈性 ，槓桿率 (平均資產 /
權益)在2019年到2026年上半年明顯上升 。同時，
經營槓桿上升帶來規模經濟效益 ，使資本市場業務
的效率比率 (營運成本/收入)下降，這是因為更高的
固定成本轉化為規模經濟效益 。最終，使資本市場
業務的股東權益報酬率(ROE)上升。

### Page 3

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
吸納量
重點摘要
3
《存貸業務續成長 ，利息收入朝市場樂觀預期發展 》
摩根大通資料顯示3Q26(截至8/26)，大型銀行整體
貸款年增 7.3%(2Q26為7.3%)，動能延續 ，其中工
商貸款類正成長且加速 ，非銀行金融業貸款類正成
長略減速 。存款3Q26(截至8/26)年增6.3%，2Q26
為6.8%。整體來看，美大型銀行存貸款業務成長態
勢明確，有望實現市場對2026年淨利息收入成長的
樂觀預期。
資料來源：JPM，2026/9/8，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/9
美大型銀行存貸款業務續成長
資料來源：GS，2026/9/8，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/9
資本市場收入預期步入健康增長
2010~2019

資本市場平均值
資
本
市
場
費
用
收
入
(10億美元)
投資銀行市場 交易市場
2020~2025
資本市場平均值
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
工商業貸款 非存款機構貸款 工商相關貸款 整體貸款
2Q26年增率(%) 3Q26年增率(%)

---
## Document 431: データからみるα世代のお金事情

Source PDF: all report pdf/データからみるα世代のお金事情.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1――はじめに

「Z 世代」という言葉はいまなお頻繁に使われているが、筆者は数年前から、その次の世代にあた
る「α 世代」について聞かれることも多かった。しかし、当時のα 世代はまだ小学生以下が中心であ
り、自ら消費の意思決定を行う場面も限られており、筆者も、 「本人の価値観や消費行動というよ
り、親の影響を強く受ける世代」と説明することが多かった。 
しかし、2026 年現在、2010～2025 年生まれをα 世代と捉えるならば、そのうちおよそ3 割がす
でに中学生以上に達している。友人だけで出かけたり、自分のおこづかいで商品を選んだり、限られ
た予算のなかで「何に使い、何には使わないか」を考えたりする年齢になってきた。そこで本稿で
は、α 世代の中でも中学生を中心に、 「おこづかい」を手がかりとして、彼らがいくら受け取り、何
に使い、どのようにお金と向き合っているのかを見ていきたい。

2――中学生のおこづかい事情

2026 年に博報堂教育財団こども研究所が実施した「子どもの『おこづかい』に関する調査」1によ
ると、中学生の1 か月のおこづかいの平均額は3,234 円だった。金額帯別にみると、小学生では
「1,000 円以上～2,000 円未満」が34.8％と最も多いのに対し、中学生では「3,000 円以上～4,000
円未満」が29.5％で最多となっている。進学に伴って、自由に使えるお金の額が一段階大きくなる
様子がうかがえる。

2026-09-29 
基礎研 
レ ポ ー ト 
データからみるα世代のお金事情

生活研究部 准主任研究員 廣瀨 涼  
(03)3512-1776  hirose@nli-research.co.jp 
ニッセイ基礎研究所

### Page 2

出所：J-FLEC「家計の金融行動に関する世論調査」をもとに筆者作成

また、J-FLEC「家計の金融行動に関する世論調査」2では、調査対象母集団のうち二人以上世帯
で子供がいる世帯に対して子どもに渡すこづかいの金額を聞いているが、2025 年の中学生のこづか
い平均額は4,395 円だった。調査方法や対象が異なるため単純な比較はできないものの、現在の中学
生は月 4000 円程度の収入があるということがわかる。 
こども研究所の調査によれば、おこづかいを「毎週または毎月決まった金額」でもらっている割合
は、小学生の44.8％に対し、中学生では61.5％だった。中学生になると、その都度必要に応じても
らうだけではなく、一定額を定期的に受け取り、その範囲内で自分なりにやりくりする機会が増えて
いくようである。 
一方、1 年前と比べておこづかいの総額が増えたと回答した保護者は、小学生で40.2％、中学生で
46.2％だった。増えた理由としては、小中学生ともに「学年が上がった」が最も多く、次いで「物価
高への対応」 「塾、習い事、友達との外出が増えた」などが挙げられている。また、 「臨時に渡す額が
増えた」とする回答もみられた。 
つまり、子どもが実際に使えるお金は、毎週・毎月決まって受け取る「定額のおこづかい」だけで
構成されているわけではない。友達と出かける、習い事に行く、何か必要なものを買うといった場面
では、その都度、親から追加でお金を受け取ることもある。言い換えれば、子どもの財布は、 「月額
のおこづかい」と「必要に応じて支給されるお金」の二層構造になっていると考えることができる。 
もっとも、これはα 世代に固有の現象ではないだろう。これまでも、決められたおこづかいだけ
では足りないときに、親から追加でもらうことは珍しくなかったはずである。重要なのは、 「月のお
こづかいはいくらか」という数字だけでは、子どもが実際にどれだけのお金を使えるのかを十分には
捉えられないという点である。特に中学生になると、友人との外出や移動など、お金を必要とする場
面が増えるため、この“二層目”の存在がより大きな意味を持つようになる。

3――家計とこどもへのおこづかい

### Page 3

ここまで見てきたように、中学生になるとおこづかいの金額そのものが増えるだけでなく、友人と
の外出や必要な買い物などに応じて、定額のおこづかいとは別に臨時でお金を渡す機会も増えてい
く。また、物価高への対応を理由におこづかいを増額する家庭もみられる。子どもの側からすれば、
行動範囲が広がり、必要なお金が増えていくのは自然なことかもしれない。しかし、「子どもに必要
なお金は増えているが、それを支える家計にも余裕がない」こともまた事実であり、現代の子どもの
おこづかいを考えるうえで、少し親側の財布事情にも目を向ける必要がある。
日本経済は、いわゆる「失われた30 年」と呼ばれる長期停滞を経験してきた。その影響は、企業
やマクロ経済だけでなく、当然ながら個々の家計にも及んでいる。国税庁「民間給与実態統計調査」
に基づいて1989 年以降の平均給与額をみると、1990 年代はおおむね455 万円前後で推移し、1997
年には約467 万円と当時のピークを記録した。一方、直近10 年では、2016 年から 2023 年にかけて

約 425 万円から約460 万円程度で推移し、2024 年には 477 万円を超え、名目上は1997 年の水準を
上回ったものの、この数字だけをみて、家計の余裕が大きく増したと捉えることは難しい。
その背景には、物価上昇に加え、社会保険料や税負担などの増加がある。さらに近年は、食料品や
光熱費、家賃など、日常生活に必要な支出そのものが上昇している。家計にとっては、収入が増えて
いるというより、増えた分が生活コストの上昇に吸収されているという感覚に近い家庭も少なくない
だろう。
そして、この物価高の影響を受けるのは前述した通り、大人だけではない。子どももまた、友人と
出かければ飲食代がかかり、交通費もかかる。文房具や菓子、書籍、趣味に使う商品の価格も上がっ
ている。つまり、同じ3,000 円のおこづかいでできることは、10 年前、20 年前と比べて少なくなっ
ている。従来と同じ金額を渡しているだけでは、子どもにとっての「使えるお金」は実質的には目減
りしていく。そのため、物価高のなかで、親は自身の生活費上昇に対応しながら、子どもの消費に必

要な金額も引き上げていかなければならない。おこづかいの増額は、物価上昇に伴う家計支出の一項
目になりつつあるともいえる。
少し視野を広げて大学生までみると、この構造はより分かりやすい。日本学生支援機構「令和2
年度学生生活調査」3では、学生の収入のうち実家からの「仕送り」が大きな比重を占めている。学
生本人がアルバイト等で収入を得る場合であっても、それでほとんどを賄うというのは難しい。した
がって、家庭の経済状況が悪化すれば、その影響は子どもの生活水準にも直接及びやすい。
実際、東京私大教連の2025 年調査4では、私立大学新入生の仕送りから家賃を差し引いた生活費
は月平均1 万 9,800 円とされている。1990 年度の約 7 万 3,800 円と比べると大幅に減少しており、
1 日あたりに換算すれば約660 円である。もちろん、近年は家賃そのものも上昇しているため、単純
に「親が昔より仕送りをしなくなった」と捉えることは間違いである。むしろ、家賃を含めた住居費
の負担が大きくなるなかで、生活費として残る部分が圧縮されているとみるべきだろう。

ここで中学生や小学生に戻って考えると、彼らには大学生のようにアルバイトで不足分を補うとい
う選択肢がまずない。使えるお金は、基本的に家庭から与えられる金額によって決まる。だからこ
そ、物価が上がれば、子どもがこれまでと同程度の生活や交友関係を維持するためには、親が渡す金
額も増やさざるを得ない。
つまり、家計に余裕がないからおこづかいを増やしにくい一方、物価高によって従来の金額では子

### Page 4

4――小中学生のおこづかいの使用用途の変化

次に、おこづかいの使いみちを見てみよう。こども研究所の調査では、小学生・中学生ともに「お
かしやジュース」が約6 割で最も多く、次いで「本やマンガ」が約3 割となっている。一方、小学
生と中学生の違いが大きく表れているのが、 「外でお茶・ごはん」や「遊びに行くときの交通費」と
いった支出である。中学生全体では「外でお茶・ごはん」が39.8％、 「遊びに行くときの交通費」が
31.5％と 3 割を超える。特に女子中学生では、 「外でお茶・ごはん」におこづかいを使う割合が
46.4％に達する。

図２ あなたはふだん、どんなもの・ことにおこづかいを使っていますか。

出所：博報堂教育財団こども研究所「子どもの『おこづかい』に関する調査」より引用

この傾向は、別の調査からも確認できる。株式会社テスティーが中学生・高校生601 人を対象に
実施した調査5では、中学生のおこづかいの使いみちとして「友達と遊ぶための交際代」が65.3％で
最も高かった。中学生になると、行動範囲が広がり、友人だけで外出する機会も増える。飲食代だけ
でなく、交通費や施設利用料なども必要になり、お金の使いみちは「自分が欲しいものを買うため」
だけではなく、 「友人と一緒に過ごすため」にも広がっていくのである。 
言い換えれば、交友関係が広がることは、同時に「交際コスト」が発生することでもある。小学生
のころには、家の近所や学校、公園など、あまりお金を使わずに友達と過ごすことも多い。しかし中
学生になると、友人と飲食店に行く、電車に乗って出かける、カラオケや商業施設で遊ぶといった選
択肢が増えていく。成長とともに人間関係の範囲が広がる一方、その関係に参加するために必要とな
る金銭的な負担も大きくなっていくのである。

### Page 5

中学生と小学生では、おこづかいの使いみちに違いが表れていた。では、中学生と高校生の間に
は、どのような変化があるのだろうか。大きな違いの一つが、 「自分で稼ぐ」という選択肢が加わる
ことである。前述した株式会社テスティーの調査では、高校生の約4 割がアルバイトをしており、
月収では「3 万円以上5 万円未満」が最も多かった。 
一方、マイナビの「高校生のアルバイト調査（2026 年）」6でも、高校生がアルバイト就業率が
25.2％であったことが示されている。調査によって就業率には差がみられるものの、高校生になる
と、親からお金を「もらう」だけではなく、自分自身で収入を得る層が現れることは共通している。 
中学生の段階では、親から数千円のおこづかいを受け取り、その範囲でやりくりするケースが中心
である。それが高校生になると、アルバイトによって月に数万円を稼ぐことが可能になる。わずか数
年の間に、自分の判断で扱うことのできるお金の桁が一つ変わるわけである。高校生になることは、
単に「おこづかいの金額が増える」という変化ではない。 「親から与えられた予算を配分する消費
者」から、 「自ら所得を得て、その使いみちを決める消費者」へと移行していく時期と捉えることが
できる。 
図３ 高校生のこづかい額の推移（1990 年～2025 年）

出所：J-FLEC「家計の金融行動に関する世論調査」をもとに筆者作成

もっとも、すべての高校生がアルバイトをしているわけではない。前述したJ-FLEC「家計の金融
行動に関する世論調査」では、高校生の月のおこづかいは2025 年に 9,113円、2024 年には 6,823
円と年によって振れが大きいものの、直近5 年間の平均では7,489 円程度となる。高校生になる
と、おこづかいだけで生活する人、アルバイト収入を得る人、おこづかいを受け取りながらアルバイ
トもする人など、お金の入り口そのものが多様化していく。その結果、同じ高校生であっても、本人
が自由に使える金額には大きな差が生まれる。つまり高校生は、自由に使えるお金の差が一気に広が
り始める時期でもある。

### Page 6

一方、Studyplusトレンド研究所が中学生783 人、高校生2,211 人の計 2,994 人を対象に実施し
た「中高生のおこづかい・貯金・ネットショッピング」に関する調査7では、 「おこづかい以外にアル
バイトなどで収入を得ている」と回答した割合は12.8％だった。その具体的な手段をみると、 「ポイ
活」が 40.7％で最も多く、次いで「ネットフリマ・オークションサービスへの出品」が34.5％とな
っている。このほか、 「アンケートモニター」13.6％、 「家事のお手伝い」8.9％に加え、 「株・投資・
FX・NISA」5.7％、 「クラウドソーシング」3.4％などもみられた。

図４ おこづかいやアルバイト以外で「自分で自由に使えるお金を得る」ためにどのような活動を行っていますか？ 
（n=383）

出所：Studyplusトレンド研究所「中高生のおこづかい・貯金・ネットショッピング」に関する調査より引用

ここから見えてくるのは、中高生にとって「収入を得ること」が、必ずしもアルバイトだけを意味
しなくなっているということである。買い物によって得たポイントを次の支払いに充てたり、自分が
所有するモノをフリマアプリで売却し、その代金を新しい消費に回したりする。スマートフォンを介
して、小さな収入源をいくつも持つことが可能になっているのである。 
特に興味深いのが、フリマアプリの存在である。欲しいものを新品で購入して所有し続けるのでは
なく、中古で安く手に入れ、興味が薄れたり不要になったりすれば売却し、その代金を次に「いま欲
しいもの」の購入資金に充てる。いわば、モノを買って終わりではなく、手元にあるモノの価値を次
の消費へと循環させるのである。 
そのため、購入時点から「あとでいくらで売れそうか」を意識することも増えてくる。必ずしも転
売益を得るわけではないが、安く購入し、価値が残っているうちに売却することで、実質的な負担額
を小さくすることができるため、こうした行動は、限られたおこづかいのなかでできるだけ多くの消
費を実現しようとする、一種の合理的なやりくりともいえるだろう。

### Page 7

7――さいごに

ここまでα 世代の年長層を中心に、おこづかいを通じて子どもたちのお金事情を見てきた。しか
し、これらを直ちに「α 世代特有の金銭感覚」と呼ぶことには慎重であるべきだろう。小学生から中
学生になれば行動範囲が広がり、友人との交際にお金が必要になる。高校生になればアルバイトを始
め、自ら所得を得る者が現れる。こうした変化そのものは、これまでの世代にも存在していたはずで
ある。 
むしろ今注目したいのは、α 世代がようやく、自分のお金を持ち、自ら消費を選択する年齢に入り
始めたということである。これまでα 世代の消費を語ろうとしても、実際に財布を握っていたのは
親であり、本人の意思と消費行動を切り分けることは難しかった。しかし、最年長層が中高生となっ
たことで、少しずつ彼ら自身の選択が見えるようになってきた。 
そして、彼らが消費者として歩き始める環境は、それ以前の世代とまったく同じではない。その一
つが、お金のデジタル化である。こども研究所の調査によれば、中学生のおこづかいは現在でも「現
金」で受け取る割合が97.7％と圧倒的に高い。一方で、17.1％は QR コード8・バーコード決済アプ
リで受け取ることもあると回答している。現金でおこづかいをもらうという基本的な姿は残っている
ものの、現金だけで完結するわけではなくなりつつある。 
かつてであれば、財布を開けば「あといくら使えるか」を物理的に確認することができた。現在
は、現金に加えて交通系IC カードやQR コード決済など、使えるお金が複数の場所に分散してい
る。また、友人同士でお金をやりとりすること自体は昔からあったが、スマートフォンを介した送金
や割り勘が可能になったことで、そのハードルは大きく下がった。現金を直接手渡す場合に比べて、
「お金を渡している」という感覚や心理的な抵抗も薄れやすい。その結果、小学生の間でも「おご
る・おごられる」といったやりとりが起こりやすくなり、友人関係を巻き込んだ金銭トラブルにつな
がるケースもみられる。同じ 3,000 円、4,000 円のおこづかいを持つとしても、そのお金を保有し、
移動させ、支払う環境そのものは以前とは異なっているのである。 
また、 現在の子どものお金の使いみちには、 過去にはほとんど見られなかった項目も登場している。
こども研究所の調査を男女別にみると、小学生男子では「ゲームアプリに課金」が17.6％、中学生男
子では 23.0％となり、いずれも上位に入っている。ゲームそのものを購入するだけでなく、ゲームの
中で継続的にお金を使うことが、子どもの消費の一部になっているのである。 
これを、α 世代の最年長層が生まれた2010 年に知るぽると金融広報中央委員会が実施した「子ど
ものくらしとお金に関する調査」9と比べると興味深い。 当時も「ゲームをする」 「ゲーム代」 「ゲーム
ソフトやおもちゃ類」 といった項目は上位にみられるものの、 現在のような 「ゲームアプリへの課金」

### Page 8

図５ おこづかいの使い方（複数回答）ランキング

出所：金融広報中央委員会「平成 22 年度子どものくらしとお金に関する調査」より引用

NTT ドコモ モバイル社会研究所の調査10によれば、2010 年のスマートフォン保有率は4.4％にす
ぎなかった。そもそも、現在のようなアプリ内課金を日常的に行える環境自体が、まだ十分に整って
いなかったのである。つまり、子どもの欲望そのものが突然変化したというよりも、技術やサービス
が新しい消費の選択肢を生み出したと考える方が自然だろう。市場環境が整うことで、それまで存在
しなかった支出先が生まれ、それがやがて子どもの日常的な消費の一部になっていくのである。 
加えて、物価高によって遊びや交際に必要な金額は上昇し、友人との関係もオンラインとオフライ
ンをまたいで形成されるようになっている。つまり、いま見えているのは「α 世代だからお金の使い
方が特別だ」ということではない。むしろ、これまでの世代と同じように成長し、自分のお金を持ち
始める彼らが、これまでとは異なる消費環境のなかで消費者になっていくということである。 
α 世代の特徴がすでに明確になったというよりも、最年長層が中高生となったことで、これから彼
らがどのような消費者になっていくのかを観察できる段階に、ようやく入ったといえるだろう。

1 博報堂教育財団こども研究所「小中学生に聞いたおこづかい事情調査 おこづかいはいくら？ 何に使う？」2026/03/07 
https://kodomoken.hakuhodofoundation.or.jp/topics/2266/ 
2 J-FLEC「家計の金融行動に関する世論調査（2025 年） 」  
https://www.j-flec.go.jp/data/kakekin_2025/ 
3 日本学生支援機構「令和2 年度学生生活調査」令和 4 年 10 月 21 日 
https://www.jasso.go.jp/statistics/gakusei_chosa/2020.html 
4 東京私大教連「2025 年私立大学新入生の家計負担調査」2026/04/06  http://tfpu.or.jp/kakeihutan-chousa/ 
5 株式会社テスティー「2025 年版 中学生・高校生のお小遣いに関する調査を実施」2025/01/28 
https://prtimes.jp/main/html/rd/p/000000005.000152826.html 
6 https://www.mynavi.jp/news/2026/06/post_53622.html （2026 年 9 月 28 日閲覧） 
7 Studyplusトレンド研究所「中高生のおこづかい・貯金・ネットショッピング」に関する調査 2023/08/29 
https://www.trend-lab.studyplus.jp/post/20230829 
8 「QR コード」は株式会社デンソーウェーブの登録商標である。 
9 知るぽる・金融広報中央委員会「平成22 年度子どものくらしとお金に関する調査」平成 23 年 6 月 17 日  
https://www.shiruporuto.jp/public/document/container/kodomo_chosa/2010/pdf/10kodomo.pdf 
10 https://www.moba-ken.jp/project/mobile/20230410.html （2026 年 9 月 28 日閲覧） 
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

---
## Document 446: 专题报告：分红险转型阶段性成效显著，险企分化加剧，投研能力成为核心竞争要素

Source PDF: all report pdf/专题报告：分红险转型阶段性成效显著，险企分化加剧，投研能力成为核心竞争要素.pdf
Report source: 中证鹏元
Date: 2026-09-26
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

金融机构评级部
刘志强
liuzhq@cspengyuan.com
陈锐炜
chenrw@cspengyuan.com
主要内容：
随着市场利率持续下行，寿险行业利差损风险加大，同时监管政策持续引
导浮动收益型业务发展，分红险转型成为险企在低利率时代降低刚性负债
成本的必选项，保单持有人则在银行定存利率破2%、理财净值化背景下，
把分红险当作“保底锁息+分享权益上行”的挪储容器，多方力量共同作
用下，行业迎来新一轮分红险转型。2026 年上半年分红险原保险保费收入
达到10,126亿元，同比大幅增长94.4%，头部险企新业务中分红险占比已
处于绝对领先地位。
分红险保费收入占比持续提升的背景下，保险资金的资产配置将从“被动
久期匹配”转向更灵活的“收益增强”策略。因分红险账户基础项目公允
价值变动镜像计入财务承保损益或其他综合收益，分红险账户在资产配置
上可将更多资产配置于FVTPL 分类的债券和权益资产，在覆盖保底收益
的基础上实现更多超额收益。2026 年8 月，国家金融监督管理总局正式

发布《保险公司资产负债管理办法》（以下简称“ALM 新规”），为满足
ALM 新规对于保险公司净投资收益覆盖率不低于100%的要求，同时以利
率风险对冲率替换征求意见稿中的有效久期缺口，未来保险公司可能会加大
高股息股票和高票息信用债的投资。
分红险转型与ALM 新规的共振，核心是对险企投研能力的考验，头部险
企凭借更强的投研能力和长期稳定的分红实现率，在负债端更容易获得客
户信任，在资产端又能用收益兑现承诺，双向正反馈不断加深头部险企护
城河。中小型险企分红险转型需要匹配相应的投研能力，否则销量越大反
而包袱越重。强者恒强、分化加剧的剧本，正在寿险行业加速上演。
分红险转型阶段性成效显著，险企分化
加剧，投研能力成为核心竞争要素 专题报告
2026 年 9 月 11日

### Page 2

新单保费占比快速提升，寿险公司保费结构向“低保证、浮动收益”持续优化，分红险转型阶段性成效显著
自2000年首款分红险推出后，分红险保费规模快速增长，2010年前后分红险占寿险业务比重一度达到
75%左右。2013年费率市场化改革后，传统寿险预定利率上限放开至3.5%、年金险至4.025%，叠加增额终身
寿等固收替代产品崛起，分红险优势被削弱；2016年以来受中短存续期政策影响万能险保费下降，分红险保
费规模有所回升，但2020年起增额终身寿热销使得分红险保费连续四年负增长。2024年以来，长端利率中枢
下移使传统险“高保底”从营销卖点变为利差损包袱，行业利差损风险加大；监管政策持续引导浮动收益型
业务发展，叠加新保险合同准则实施，负债端分红险适用浮动收费法（VFA），相对于传统险几乎不影响利
润表，险企更愿意把渠道资源向分红险倾斜；客户端则在银行定存利率破2%、理财净值化背景下，把分红
险当作“保底锁息+分享权益上行”的挪储容器，分红险转型已成为寿险行业的共识。
2023-2024年因到期压力较大，叠加保费规模下降，头部险企各季度分红险账户业务净现金流持续净流

出，随着本轮分红险转型不断推进，2025年二季度以来头部险企各季度分红险账户业务净现金流转为净流入
且净流入规模大幅增长。根据中国保险行业协会数据，2025年分红险原保费收入达9,042亿元，同比增长
18.06%；2026年上半年分红险原保险保费收入达到10,126亿元，已超过2025年全年保费规模，同比大幅增长
94.4%，分红险保费规模在人身险总保费规模中的占比已达35%，已超过增额终身寿险成为寿险市场的绝对
主力。
图1 头部险企各季度分红账户业务净现金流合计情况
注：样本险企包括中国人寿、平安寿险、太保寿险、新华保险、阳光人寿。
资料来源：公开资料，中证鹏元整理
2026年以来头部险企新业务中分红险占比已处于绝对领先地位，从2026年上半年数据来看，平安寿险新
业务分红险占比超九成；太保寿险分红型保险规模保费同比增长76.1%，新保业务中分红型保险占比提升至
55.5%；太平人寿分红险在长险首年期缴保费中占比97.8%；新华保险分红险原保费收入同比增长165.4%；

### Page 3

于30%-40%区间，完成总保费结构切换尚需一段时间续期替代。
表 1主要寿险公司分红险保费及占比情况（亿元）
企业名称
2026年 1-6月 2025年 2024年 2023年
保费 占比 保费 占比 保费 占比 保费 占比
平安寿险（规模保费） 1,215.49 29.03% 916.00 14.51% 648.46 10.88% 625.23 10.98%
太保寿险（规模保费） 656.87 34.51% 611.87 20.68% 560.66 21.37% 592.45 23.43%
太平人寿（原保费，单位为亿港元） 644.89 48.48% 578.43 28.72% 301.73 15.40% 322.69 17.21%
新华保险（原保费） 484.92 37.43% 376.04 19.20% 282.78 16.58% 296.96 17.90%
阳光人寿（原保费） 249.28 37.12% 128.45 12.52% 102.31 12.72% 142.70 19.13%

注：平安寿险2026年1-6月保费数据取自中国平安年报，其他年度数据取自平安寿险公开披露的评级报告。
资料来源：公开信息，中证鹏元整理
因分红险账户基础项目公允价值变动镜像计入财务承保损益或其他综合收益，分红险账户在资产配置
上可将更多资产配置于分类为FVTPL的债券和权益资产，在保底覆盖的基础上实现更多超额收益，但收益
率受资本市场影响较大，险企分化将加剧，投研能力成为核心竞争要素
在浮动收费法（VFA）下，分红险账户基础项目公允价值变动镜像计入财务承保损益或其他综合收益，
基础项目公允价值变动对当期利润几乎无影响。而普通险账户为隔离波动被迫持有以AC计量的长债、以
FVOCI计量的权益类资产，风险偏好被刚性保底束缚。在这一机制下，分红险账户在资产配置上可将更多资
产配置于FVTPL分类的债券和权益类资产。分红险保费占比提升后，保险资金的资产配置将从“被动久期匹
配”转向更灵活的“收益增强”策略。
从头部险企分红险账户资产结构来看，债券仍占据绝对大头以覆盖保底成本，但分红险久期较传统险更

短，资产负债久期匹配压力较小，对中短端债券品种的配置能力有所增强，较少持有以AC计量的长债；同
时，分红险较传统险能更好地平滑利润波动，具备增配二级资本债和永续债（二永债）等分类为FVTPL的债
券以及权益类资产的条件，从头部险企金融投资资产来看，分红险账户FVTPL资产基本均大于其他险种，而
以高股息类股票为主的其他权益工具投资（FVOCI-权益）占比则低于其他险种。

### Page 4

注：其他险种各项金融投资资产=财务报表各项金融投资资产账面价值-分红险账户各项金融投资资产
资料来源：公开信息，中证鹏元整理
截至2025年末头部险企分红险账户资产占总资产的比例在30%至40%左右，2026年以来分红险转型不断
深化，该比例有望提升，分红险对险企利润表的平滑作用将逐步增强。收益方面，分红险账户收益率受资本
市场变化影响波动较大，头部险企各年度收益表现有所分化，投研能力成为决定胜负的关键因素。
表 2主要寿险公司分红险账户资产及收益情况（单位：万亿元）
项目
近三
年平
均收
益率
2025 2024 2023
金额 占总资
产比例 收益率 金额 占总资
产比例 收益率 金额 占总资产
比例 收益率
中国人寿 6.25% 2.48 32.70% 3.74% 2.42 35.79% 8.76% 1.99 33.71% -
平安寿险 7.95% 2.71 43.36% 2.26% 2.57 46.41% 13.63% 2.26 49.80% 6.84%
太保寿险 6.65% 1.23 44.19% 3.12% 1.16 46.49% 10.18% 1.03 50.68% 4.02%

新华保险 6.75% 0.79 41.42% 4.66% 0.74 43.82% 8.84% 0.68 48.25% 3.08%
阳光人寿 4.95% 0.20 33.00% 4.36% 0.20 38.56% 5.53% 0.22 49.60% 2.51%
注：（1）分红险账户收益率=具有直接参与分红特征的保险合同基础项目的公允价值变动/具有直接参与分红特征的保险合
同所对应的基础项目公允价值的加权平均值；（2）中国人寿平均收益率为近两年平均值，其他样本采用近三年平均值。
资料来源：公开信息，中证鹏元整理
2026年8月，国家金融监督管理总局正式发布ALM新规，为满足ALM新规对于保险公司净投资收益覆盖
率不低于100%的要求，同时以利率风险对冲率替换征求意见稿中的有效久期缺口，未来保险公司可能会加
大高股息股票和高票息信用债的投资，降低对长期限国债的配置。分红险转型与ALM新规的共振，核心是
对险企投研能力的考验，头部险企凭借更强的投研能力和长期稳定的分红实现率，在负债端更容易获得客

户信任，在资产端又能用收益兑现承诺，双向正反馈不断加深头部险企护城河。中小型险企分红险转型需要
匹配相应的投研能力，否则销量越大反而包袱越重。强者恒强、分化加剧的剧本，正在保险业加速上演。

### Page 5

道获得的报告均为非法，本公司不承担任何法律责任。
独立性声明
本报告所采用的数据均来自合规渠道，通过合理分析得出结论，结论不受其它任何第三方的授意、影响，
特此声明。

---
## Document 475: 企業物価指数2026年8月～国内企業物価は3ヵ月連続の前年比7％台、先行きは高止まりへ～

Source PDF: all report pdf/企業物価指数2026年8月～国内企業物価は3ヵ月連続の前年比7％台、先行きは高止まりへ～.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-11
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1. 国内企業物価は 3 ヵ月連続の前年比 7％台 
日本銀行が 9 月 11 日に発表した企業物価指数
によると、2026 年 8 月の国内企業物価は前年比
7.6％（7 月：7.7％） と3 ヵ月連続の前年比7％台
となった。前月比では▲0.2％と 12 ヵ月ぶりのマ
イナスとなった。夏季電力料金調整後（毎年7 月
から9 月に適用される夏季電力割増料金の影響を
除いた指数）は、前年比7.7％（7 月：同7.7％）
となった。 
内訳をみると、23 類別すべてで上昇した。政府
による電気・都市ガス代の支援策は、26 年 7～9
月使用分（国内企業物価への反映は8～10 月）で
実施されているため、電気・都市ガス・水道（夏
季電力料金調整後）は前月比▲2.3％となった。し
かし、前年比では 8.9％（7 月：同7.3％）と伸び
が拡大した。都市ガスは前年比 2.3％（7 月：同
4.8％）と伸びが縮小したものの、事業用電力（7 月：前年比 6.9％→8 月：同 9.3％） 、上水道（7
月：前年比2.8％→8 月：同4.5％）は伸びが拡大した。 
コメを含む農林水産物は、前年比2.5％（7 月：同4.7％）と前月から伸びが縮小した。玄米が前
年比 16.5％（7 月：同20.1％）と伸びが鈍化したほか、精米が前年比▲5.0％（7 月：同1.6％）と
22 年9 月以来となる前年比マイナスに転じた。 
政府のガソリン・灯油等の補助金政
策によって、 ガソリン ・ 灯油の価格は抑
制されているため、ガソリンは前年比
▲2.1％（7 月：同▲1.4％） とマイナス
幅が拡大し、 灯油は前年比19.3％（7 月：
同21.6％） と上昇率が縮小した。また、
潤滑油が前年比 27.1 ％（ 7 月：同
35.6 ％ ） 、 Ｂ 重 油 ・ Ｃ 重 油 が 前 年 比
20.9％（7 月 ： 同41.0％） と伸びが大き
く鈍化したことから、 石油 ・ 石炭製品は

前月比 前年比 前月比 前年比 前月比 前年比
25年 7月 0.2 2.5 1.8 -5.7 2.2 -10.7
8月 -0.2 2.7 0.4 -0.1 0.5 -4.4
9月 0.5 2.8 0.6 2.4 0.3 -1.2
10月 0.5 2.8 2.4 2.2 2.4 -1.6
11月 0.3 2.8 1.8 2.1 1.5 -1.7
12月 0.1 2.5 1.0 4.0 1.2 0.2
26年 1月 0.3 2.5 2.1 4.9 2.0 0.7
2月 0.0 2.2 1.9 8.4 0.1 2.8
3月 1.1 3.0 1.5 11.3 3.6 8.3
4月 2.8 5.5 4.0 18.1 9.0 21.7
5月 1.1 6.8 1.2 20.6 2.8 26.4
6月 0.5 7.4 0.8 21.3 1.6 30.6
7月 0.4 7.7 0.1 19.3 1.2 29.3
8月 -0.2 7.6 -0.7 17.9 -3.0 24.8
（資料）日本銀行「企業物価指数」
企業物価指数の推移
国内企業物価 輸出物価
（円ベース）
輸入物価
（円ベース）
ニッセイ基礎研究所 
企業物価指数 2026 年 8 月 
～国内企業物価は 3 ヵ月連続の前年比 7％台、
先行きは高止まりへ～

### Page 2

2. 前月から円高が進んだことから、円ベースの輸入物価は前月比▲3.0％ 
26 年8 月の契約通貨ベースの輸入物価は、前年比16.7％（7 月：同 17.8％）と前月から伸びが
縮小した。内訳をみると、原油が前年比35.7％（7 月：同50.2％）、ナフサが同27.7％（7 月：同
53.6％）、液化石油ガスが同 11.5％（7 月：同16.5％）といずれも前月から大幅鈍化となったなど
ことから、石油・石炭・天然ガスは前年比32.8％（7 月：同38.4％）と前月から伸びは縮小し
た。 
一方、堅調なＡＩ関連需要を背景に、電気・電子機器は前年比20.8％（7 月：同 19.9％）と伸
びが拡大した。25 年秋頃から伸びが急拡大してきた半導体メモリは、モス型メモリ集積回路が前
年比 327.9％（7 月：同322.6％） 、記録メディアが同112.3％（7 月：同111.6％）と前月から伸
びが拡大した。 
8 月の為替相場は対ドルで158 円台（前月比▲2.4％）となった。7 月から円高・ドル安が進ん
だことから、円ベースでは前年比24.8％（7 月：同 29.3％）となった。

-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
22/01 22/07 23/01 23/07 24/01 24/07 25/01 25/07 26/01 26/07
輸入物価指数の前年比推移（総平均）
為替要因
契約通貨ベース
円ベース
（年/月）（資料）日本銀行「企業物価指数」
（前年比）

### Page 3

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

---
## Document 480: 债市老将六年来首度看多美债， 称5.2%收益率已有足够缓冲

Source PDF: all report pdf/债市老将六年来首度看多美债， 称5.2%收益率已有足够缓冲.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

华尔街资深市场⽼将、 Bianco Research 创始⼈ Jim Bianco 时隔六年⾸次转向看多美债。
随着 10 年期美债收益率升⾄ 5.27% ，他认为 5.2% 左右的收益率已提供较厚的收益缓冲，即
便债市抛售仍可能延续，美债当前的⻛险收益⽐也已显著改善。
摘要：
10 年期美债收益率升⾄ 2007 年以来⾼位之际，⻓期看空债市的华尔街⽼将 Jim Bianco 罕⻅转向
看多。 Bianco Research 总裁兼创始⼈ Jim Bianco 认为，在 5.2% 左右的收益率⽔平买⼊美债，已
经获得⾜够的收益缓冲，即便收益率继续上⾏，债券的⻛险收益⽐也正在改善。
周⼀， 10 年期美债收益率升⾄ 5.27% ，创 2007 年以来新⾼。 Bianco 随后将其管理的主动型债券
指数久期提⾼⾄ 6 年以上，⾼于彭博美国综合债券指数的 5.7 年。该指数由 WisdomTree 旗下 ETF
跟踪。Bianco 表⽰： “ 在 5.2% 的收益率⽔平买进债券，已经有⼀⼤块厚实的缓冲。 ”

⾃ 2020 年 10 年期美债收益率跌⾄ 0.3% 的历史低点以来， Bianco ⼀直看空债市。此次转向，是他
六年来⾸次重新看多美国国债。他并不认为债券抛售已经结束，⽽是认为经过这⼀轮收益率⼤
幅上⾏后，债券的⻛险回报结构已经发⽣变化。
收益率突破 5% ，债券⻛险收益⽐改善
Bianco 此次转向并⾮押注债券抛售⽴即结束，⽽是基于当前收益率⽔平下更有利的债券数学。
据彭博汇编的数据，在当前⽔平买⼊ 10 年期美债后，即便未来⼀年收益率进⼀步升⾄约 6% ，价
格损失也⼤致会被票息收⼊抵消。反过来看，如果收益率回落 1 个百分点，债券价格上涨带来的
回报将明显⾼于收益率上⾏ 1 个百分点所造成的损失。
“ 这是⼀个价值投资机会。如果收益率继续上⾏，我会继续买⼊。 ”Bianco 表⽰。他同时承认，当
前债市抛售可能仍未结束，因此采取的是逐步建仓，⽽⾮⼀次性⼤举押注。 “ 我正在试探性地进
⼊市场。 ”
财政、通胀与经济韧性共同推⾼收益率
近期美债遭遇持续抛售，能源价格上涨、财政⾚字⾼企、通胀黏性以及美国经济保持韧性，均

在推⾼⻓期收益率。同时， AI 基础设施投资热潮带来的融资需求，也进⼀步增加了市场对债券供
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
101 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
给和利率⽔平的关注。
Bianco 认为，美联储政策与⻓期美债收益率之间的背离尤其值得关注。过去⼀段时间，即使美
联储处于降息周期， 10 年期美债收益率仍持续上⾏，反映出市场对通胀、经济增⻓和财政供给
的担忧正在压过货币政策本⾝的影响。
本⽉，美联储在主席沃什领导下⾃ 2023 年以来⾸次加息，将联邦基⾦利率⽬标区间上调⾄
3.75% ⾄ 4.00% ，并释放出进⼀步收紧政策的可能性。
Bianco 已通过提⾼久期实际建仓
Bianco 的观点转变已经体现在其管理的债券指数中。他将 WisdomTree Bianco Total Return
Fund 所跟踪指数的久期提⾼⾄ 6 年以上，意味着其对利率变动的敏感度进⼀步上升。
这只 ETF 追踪的是 Bianco 于 2023 年推出的主动管理债券指数。⾃ 2023 年 12 ⽉以来，该指数年化

回报率约为 2.6% ，略⾼于彭博美国综合债券指数的 2.32% ； ETF 费⽤率为 0.6% 。
从更⻓周期看， Bianco 认为当前 5% 左右的⻓期美债收益率并不意味着经济陷⼊困境，⽽更接近
历史常态。他指出，⾃ 1981 年收益率⻅顶以来， 10 年期美债收益率平均⽔平约为 5.3% ，与当前
⽔平接近。
“ 我们正在回归正常。 ”Bianco 表⽰， “2010 年⾄ 2020 年的零利率才是荒谬的异常值。 ”
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 564: 央行等八部门：引导金融机构综合运用信贷、债券、股权等多样化工具，支持“人工智能+软件”发展

Source PDF: all report pdf/央行等八部门：引导金融机构综合运用信贷、债券、股权等多样化工具，支持“人工智能+软件”发展.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

《意⻅》指出，要推动⾦融机构转变传统重资产重抵押的融资⽀持理念，着⼒解决轻资产
企业融资难题，增强服务业⾦融产品针对性有效性，持续提升中⼩企业、个体⼯商⼾等服
务业经营主体的⾦融服务触达率，加快构建适应服务业⾼质量发展的⾦融服务体系，为服
务业扩能提质提供有⼒⾦融⽀撑。引导⾦融机构综合运⽤信贷、债券、股权等多样化⼯
具，⽀持 “ ⼈⼯智能 + 软件 ” 发展，推动智能编程⼯具和⼯业软件创新突破、基础软件⽣态和
开源社区建设、智慧视听系统⽣态场景应⽤等，发展智能体即服务、模型即服务等新业
态。
摘要：
为贯彻落实党中央、国务院决策部署，促进服务业优质⾼效发展，进⼀步增强政策⽀持的针对
性有效性，促进⾦融资源更多投向服务业重点领域和薄弱环节，中国⼈⺠银⾏、⾦融监管总
局、中国证监会、国家发展改⾰委、⼯业和信息化部、财政部、商务部、⽂化和旅游部等⼋部
⻔印发《关于⾦融⽀持服务业扩能提质的指导意⻅》（以下简称《意⻅》）。
《意⻅》以新时代中国特⾊社会主义思想为指导，深⼊践⾏⾦融⼯作的政治性、⼈⺠性，按照

党中央、国务院对服务业⼯作 “ 需求牵引、改⾰攻坚、科技赋能、开放合作 ” 的总要求，细化⾦融
⽀持重点⽅向和领域，从提升⾦融机构⽀持服务业的专业能⼒、加⼤对⽣产性和⽣活性服务业
⾦融⽀持、做强做优⾦融服务业等⽅⾯，提出 19 项务实的⼯作举措。
《意⻅》指出，要推动⾦融机构转变传统重资产重抵押的融资⽀持理念，着⼒解决轻资产企业
融资难题，增强服务业⾦融产品针对性有效性，持续提升中⼩企业、个体⼯商⼾等服务业经营
主体的⾦融服务触达率，加快构建适应服务业⾼质量发展的⾦融服务体系，为服务业扩能提质
提供有⼒⾦融⽀撑。
《意⻅》强调，要构建多层次组织服务体系，加⼤⽣产性服务业⾦融⽀持⼒度，助⼒提升科技
服务、现代物流、商务服务等发展能级；提⾼⽣活性服务业⾦融服务⽔平，促进住宿餐饮、居
⺠服务、养⽼托育、⽂体旅游等⾼质量发展；做强做优⾦融服务业，持续完善⽀付、征信等服
务，加强⾦融消费和投资权益保护。
下⼀步，中国⼈⺠银⾏将会同有关部⻔加强政策传导，推动《意⻅》各项政策加快落地⻅效，
强化⾦融机构能⼒建设，以⾦融⾼质量发展促进服务业扩能提质。

附件：
中国⼈⺠银⾏  ⾦融监管总局  中国证监会  国家发展改⾰委  ⼯业和信息化部  财政部  商务部  ⽂化和
旅游部
关于⾦融⽀持服务业扩能提质的指导意⻅
为贯彻落实党中央、国务院决策部署，深⼊实施服务业扩能提质⾏动，强化服务业⾦融⽀持，提
升⾦融产品和服务供给质效，助⼒服务业⾼质量发展，现提出以下意⻅。
⼀、总体要求
坚持以新时代中国特⾊社会主义思想为指导，深⼊贯彻党的⼆⼗⼤及⼆⼗届历次全会精神，认真
落实党中央、国务院关于推进服务业扩能提质的决策部署，统筹⾦融供给侧结构性改⾰与扩⼤内
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

需战略，统筹发展和安全，坚持市场化、法治化原则，推动转变传统重资产重抵押的融资⽀持理
念，着⼒解决轻资产企业融资难题，增强服务业⾦融产品针对性有效性，持续提升中⼩企业、个
体⼯商⼾等服务业经营主体的⾦融服务触达率，加快构建适应服务业⾼质量发展的⾦融服务体
系，为服务业扩能提质提供有⼒⾦融⽀撑。
⼆、加强⾦融⽀持服务业能⼒建设
（⼀）构建多层次组织服务体系。⾦融机构要⽴⾜⾃⾝战略定位、资源禀赋，找准服务业重点⽀
持领域，形成差异化⾦融服务格局。全国性银⾏要发挥资⾦规模与⽹点⽀撑优势，围绕国家重⼤
战略和服务业薄弱环节，⾃主选择 3-5 个重点⽅向强化⾦融供给。地⽅法⼈银⾏要坚守服务当地
定位，根据地⽅服务业基础和未来发展规划，重点围绕 1-2 个⾏业开发适配区域特⾊的⾦融产
品。保险机构要开发推⼴营业中断险、⽹络安全保险、公众责任险、健康险、意外险等险种，分
散服务业企业和从业⼈员⻛险。证券、基⾦等⾮银⾦融机构要依托专业运作能⼒，为服务业企业
提供综合化的直接融资与资产管理服务。
（⼆）加⼤服务业信贷⽀持。⿎励⾦融机构聚焦服务业经营主体资⾦需求，做好⾸贷、信⽤贷、

中⻓期贷款⽀持。结合⽣产性服务业经营特征和⽣活性服务业运营场景，创新信贷产品和服务供
给。健全知识产权等质押融资机制，合理确定质押⽐率，提升⽆形资产质押放贷能⼒。依托融资
信⽤服务平台加强服务业企业信⽤信息归集共享，完善中⼩微企业信⽤画像。增加服务业信贷便
利度，优化贷款审批流程，推⼴主动授信、随借随还贷款模式，满⾜经营主体灵活融资需求。针
对服务业体量⼩、轻资产等特征，构建覆盖全⽣命周期的⻛险评估和差异化定价体系。规范发展
助学贷、创业担保贷等信贷产品，提升投资于⼈的⾦融服务⽔平。
（三）规范发展供应链⾦融。推动完善供应链票据业务机制和系统功能，稳步加⼤动产融资统⼀
登记公⽰系统、应收账款融资服务平台、中⼩微企业资⾦流信⽤信息平台等推⼴应⽤。⾦融机构
应在依法合规、⻛险可控的前提下，规范发展供应链⾦融，可利⽤供应链 “ 数据信⽤ ” 和 “ 物的信
⽤ ” ，为⽣产性服务业经营主体提供基于订单、仓单、运单、应收账款的供应链融资服务，积极
探索供应链脱核模式。探索与餐饮、旅游等⽣活性服务业经营主体规范开展合作，强化交易背景

真实性审查，充分利⽤交易流⽔等信息，拓展供应链⾦融场景化应⽤。
（四）拓宽多元化融资渠道。⽀持符合条件的服务业企业发⾏债券，⿎励运⽤信⽤保护⼯具、债
券融资⽀持⼯具等增信措施，增强融资能⼒。在严守⻛险底线前提下，⿎励符合条件的⾦融机构
依规发⾏各类⾦融债券，扩⼤服务业⾦融供给。完善投早、投⼩、投⻓期、投硬科技的融资体
系，发挥创业投资、产业投资基⾦引导带动作⽤，⽀持符合条件的服务业企业上市融资、并购重
组。发展壮⼤⻓期资本、耐⼼资本，在服务业领域开展⻓期投资。⽤好资产证券化⼯具和基础设
施领域、商业不动产投资信托基⾦（ REITs ）等⼯具，盘活现代物流、⽂旅康养等现⾦流稳定的
服务业存量资产。⿎励为持有运输⼯具、机器设备的服务业经营主体提供定制化融资租赁解决⽅
案，发展中⼩微企业的融资租赁服务。
（五）强化科技赋能和⻛险防控。⽀持⾦融机构深化数据资源开发利⽤，探索⼈⼯智能等前沿科
学技术在⾦融领域的创新应⽤，提升数字化⾦融服务能⼒。围绕服务业重点领域、重点产业链、
重点企业等提供 “ ⼀站式 ” 数字化、智能化⾦融服务，加快形成新技术在⾦融领域的应⽤优势。综

合运⽤⼈⼯智能、⼤数据、物联⽹等技术，构建适配服务业轻资产特征的⻛控模型，提升服务业
经营主体信贷业务尽职调查、授信评审及⻛险管理⽔平。加强信贷资⾦流向监控，确保贷款资⾦
⽤于企业⽣产经营。强化资产质量监测分析，做实贷款⻛险分类，真实、准确反映相关信贷资产
质量。
三、加⼤⽣产性服务业⾦融⽀持⼒度
（六）助⼒科技服务攻坚突破。围绕研发设计、知识产权、科技成果转化、检验检测认证等重点
领域，创新推出匹配轻资产、⻓周期特点的⾦融产品。为科技型企业孵化器等创新服务平台建设
适配丰富多样的⾦融市场和⾦融⽣态。⽀持发展技术交易市场，结合技术数据交易场景，创新⾦
融产品和融资服务模式，助⼒培育⾼⽔平技术转移机构和技术经理⼈。⽀持制造业核⼼企业并购

### Page 3

融资，沿链整合上下游科技服务企业。发展科技保险，⽀持企业投保产品研发责任险，⿎励保险
机构与中试机构合作开展相关保险业务。
（七）⽀持现代物流提升发展能级。⿎励⾦融机构利⽤合适的产品和⼯具，强化对多式联运体
系、⼤宗散货和中⻓距离货物运输 “ 公转铁 ”“ 公转⽔ ” 、油⽓管⽹ “ 全国⼀张⽹ ” 、国家物流枢纽、
国家⻣⼲冷链物流基地、城乡配送⽹络、海外流通设施、远洋油船、 LNG 船等重点领域中⻓期
融资⽀持。探索多样化融资服务模式，⽀持铁路货运向铁路物流转型，⼤⼒发展国际海运、空运
服务，培育多式联运经营⼈、综合物流服务商。引导⾦融资源⽀持⽼旧物流仓储更新改造、新能
源清洁能源运输装备建造使⽤、交通基础设施沿线新能源清洁能源补能设施建设运⾏。完善农产
品产地仓储服务能⼒和批发市场系统布局，推进⼤宗商品现货市场合理布局。
（⼋）赋能软件和信息技术服务创新发展。引导⾦融机构综合运⽤信贷、债券、股权等多样化⼯
具，⽀持 “ ⼈⼯智能 + 软件 ” 发展，推动智能编程⼯具和⼯业软件创新突破、基础软件⽣态和开源

社区建设、智慧视听系统⽣态场景应⽤等，发展智能体即服务、模型即服务等新业态。完善制造
业数智化转型服务⾦融保障，⽀持制造业数智化转型服务商发展。积极满⾜⼈⼯智能技术研发、
⾏业⾼质量数据集建设、应⽤场景拓展及产业⽣态培育等领域的融资需求。⿎励⾦融机构为信息
传输、数据和信息技术等数字基础设施建设提供中⻓期融资，强化对全国算⼒布局、边缘算⼒建
设、智算云服务体系等的⾦融⽀持。
（九）培育节能环保服务稳步壮⼤。丰富绿⾊⾦融产品谱系，⽀持重点⾏业能效诊断等节能降碳
领域发展。创新适配循环经济发展的融资模式，⽀持⼯业固废综合利⽤、可再⽣资源回收利⽤、
再制造服务、再⽣材料认证等领域。在依法合规前提下，⿎励⾦融机构加强与碳排放核算、碳减
排咨询、碳资产管理等服务机构的合作，稳妥开展碳排放权、⽤⽔权、排污权等环境权益融资业
务。优化农业绿⾊⾼产⾼效技术、农业废弃物处理利⽤、海洋⽣态修复等环境治理领域的⾦融服
务模式。
（⼗）促进商务服务提质升级。开发符合商务服务业特点的⾦融产品，助⼒商务咨询、资产评

估、会计审计等服务机构品牌化、连锁化、集团化发展。合理满⾜会展⻰头企业的融资需求，优
化⽀付结算等⾦融服务，助⼒打造国际知名品牌展会。围绕健全海外综合服务体系，进⼀步优化
跨境⾦融服务，服务产供链合理有序跨境布局，⽀持跨境电商等新业态新模式和服务贸易、数字
贸易、绿⾊贸易发展，拓展 “ 制造 + 服务 ” 海外经营⽹络，⽀持涉外法律、会计、咨询、⼈⼒资
源、语⾔服务等企业拓展国际市场。
四、提升⽣活性服务业⾦融服务⽔平
（⼗⼀）促进住宿餐饮和居⺠服务更加便捷。围绕餐饮、住宿、零售等服务业经营主体的流⽔、
订单、房租等信息优化授信模式，提⾼资⾦使⽤与还款便利度，满⾜经营主体差异化资⾦需求。
提升社区服务场景融资可得性，⽀持发展⼀刻钟便⺠⽣活圈，做好县域商业提质增效的⾦融⽀
持，补⻬零售供给短板。⿎励⾦融机构为物业、零售、家政等服务企业数字化改造提供融资、融
智等综合⾦融服务，⽀持新型到家等服务新业态发展。
（⼗⼆）提⾼养⽼托育和健康服务适配⽔平。⼤⼒发展养⽼⾦融，⽀持扩⼤普惠、农村和社区嵌

⼊式养⽼托育服务供给，助⼒培育综合为⽼服务中⼼（乐龄中⼼）、适⽼⽤品产品消费场景。⿎
励⾦融机构合理确定贷款期限，匹配养⽼托育项⽬建设运营周期。探索推⼴养⽼床位收费权等质
押融资模式，强化对康复护理、医养结合、⻓期照护等领域的⾦融⽀持。拓展特⾊⾦融服务场
景，⽀持零售药店扩展专业服务、健康促进等功能，打造 “ 健康驿站 ” ，促进国产医疗设备、原研
药仿制药等创新药研发试验，助⼒发展个性化家庭医⽣签约服务。
（⼗三）助⼒⽂化旅游和体育产业融合发展。⿎励发展多样化、沉浸式⽂化和旅游业态，做好多
元化服务消费场景和多业态融合消费场景建设，以及⽂化和旅游基础设施建设、⼯业遗产活化利
⽤、群众⾝边的运动场地设施建设等领域的⾦融⽀持，合理满⾜相关经营主体的融资需求。创新
开发与游艇产业发展相适配的⾦融产品。引导⾦融机构围绕品牌等⽆形资产创新服务模式，⽀持
演艺娱乐、游戏动漫、⽹络⽂学、潮玩⽂创等健康有序发展，提升票根经济的⾦融服务质效。

### Page 4

五、做强做优⾦融服务业
（⼗四）持续完善⽀付服务。健全覆盖城乡、便捷⾼效、⻛险可控的⽀付服务体系，扎实推进⽀
付普惠。⿎励⾦融机构结合科技研发、商务服务等⽣产性服务业经营特点，围绕住宿餐饮、⽂体
娱乐等⽣活性服务业场景，持续推进⽀付便利化建设，满⾜多元化⽀付服务需求。深化数字⼈⺠
币智能合约在预付资⾦监管、消费券发放等⽅⾯的智能化、低成本优势，提供安全、⾼效、便捷
的资⾦结算⽅案。加快建设多元化、多层次⼈⺠币跨境⽀付体系，推进跨境⽀付互联互通。
（⼗五）健全征信服务体系。发挥⾦融信⽤信息基础数据库的征信服务主渠道功能，助⼒有资⾦
需求、有发展前景的服务业经营主体获得融资⽀持。优化征信市场布局，⿎励征信机构加⼤服务
业经营主体信⽤信息采集⼒度，开发针对服务业特点的征信产品和服务。持续提升信⽤评级质
量，发挥信⽤评级机构专业化⽔平，逐步培育具有全球话语权的信⽤评级机构。巩固拓展⼀次性
信⽤修复政策成效，进⼀步释放居⺠消费潜⼒，扩⼤服务业市场需求。
（⼗六）稳步推进⾦融⾼⽔平开放。深化跨境贸易和投融资便利化措施，⿎励服务业经营主体优

先使⽤⼈⺠币进⾏计价结算。推动提升⾦融机构境内外资源配置能⼒和国际竞争⼒，优化跨境结
算、汇率避险、跨境融资、对外担保等 “ ⼀体化 ” 服务，⽀持企业 “ ⾛出去 ” 并提⾼国际市场参与度
和影响⼒。持续完善并推⼴应⽤多边央⾏数字货币桥与 “ 数币达 ” （ CBETS ）跨境结算综合服务平
台，多渠道为出海服务业企业提供⾼效率、低成本的跨境资⾦结算服务。
（⼗七）加强⾦融消费和投资权益保护。深⼊开展⾦融知识普及，统筹推进⾦融适⽼化改造，防
范数字化发展中出现⽼年⼈⾦融服务鸿沟。针对现代服务新业态，加强消费者信息安全保护，明
晰数据收集和交互边界，严防违规获取个⼈⾦融信息，整治诱导过度借贷、⾮法⾼息放贷等违法
违规⾏为。加强监管全覆盖，依法打击各类⾦融违法犯罪活动。畅通⾦融消费者和投资者投诉渠
道，完善⾦融纠纷多元化解机制。
六、加强政策激励和组织保障
（⼗⼋）强化财政⾦融协同激励。⽤好服务消费与养⽼再贷款等政策⼯具，适时优化政策，激励
引导⾦融机构加⼤服务消费信贷供给，做好对服务业重点领域⾦融⽀持。实施好服务业经营主体

贷款贴息、中⼩微企业贷款贴息和个⼈消费贷款贴息等财政⾦融协同促内需⼀揽⼦政策。发挥政
府性融资担保作⽤，按照市场化、法治化原则确定融资担保业务范围和担保费率，⽀持服务业等
领域经营主体融资发展。落实好⾸台（套）保险补偿政策。持续推动明⽰企业和个⼈贷款综合融
资成本，促进中⼩服务业企业综合融资成本低位运⾏。
（⼗九）完善⼯作推进机制。各部⻔按职责分⼯分领域推进，强化⼯作协同和信息共享，加强⾦
融⽀持服务业政策传导。各⾦融管理部⻔要指导分⽀机构会同当地服务业主管部⻔、⾏业协会
等，建⽴健全常态化⼯作联动机制，持续更新完善重点服务业产业、企业名录，加强服务业数
据、信息共享和融资对接。⾦融机构要充分发挥主动性，落实落细各项政策举措，严格坚持市场
化、法治化，⽀持服务业扩能提质。中国⼈⺠银⾏各省级分⾏、⾦融机构要及时总结上报⼯作经
验、典型案例和问题建议。
中国⼈⺠银⾏
⾦融监管总局
中国证监会
国家发展改⾰委
⼯业和信息化部
财政部

### Page 5

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
425 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
商务部
⽂化和旅游部
2026 年 9 ⽉ 25 ⽇
来源：中国⼈⺠银⾏
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 617: 日本の長期金利3％で、AI株は下がるのか ～高金利が迫る、AI株の選別～

Source PDF: all report pdf/日本の長期金利3％で、AI株は下がるのか ～高金利が迫る、AI株の選別～.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Research Report

2026 年 9 月 25 日

1/6 
日本の長期金利 3％で、AI 株は下がるのか 
～高金利が迫る、AI 株の選別～ 
 政策調査部 主席研究員  柏村 祐

（要旨） 
○ これまで株式市場を牽引してきた AI 株ブームだが、足元で日本銀行の金融政策の正常化な
どを背景に 「日本の長期金利3％時代」 が現実のものとなっている。 国内の安全資産で3％の
利回りが得られるようになれば、個人投資家がリスクを取って米国の AI 株に投資するハー
ドルは相対的に上がる。 
○ 投資先の米国市場自体も高金利環境にあり、AI 株に対する「期待」が削られ、バリュエーシ
ョンの調整が起きている。実際、2026 年夏にはハイパースケーラーや半導体メーカーのPER
（株価収益率） が大きく低下した。 さらに、 現在の米国株の株式リスクプレミアムは20 年ぶ
りの低水準にあり、金利上昇を吸収する余地が小さくなっている。 
○ もっとも、 金利が高止まりしたからといって、AI 株が一様に売られると考えるのは早計だろ
う。手元資金で投資を賄えるハイパースケーラーと、外部資金に頼って設備投資を拡大して
きたAI インフラ企業とでは、 金利上昇に対する耐性が明らかに異なる。 高金利は、 こうした
財務体質の違いを株価に反映させる方向に働くだろう。 
○ 個人投資家に求められるのは、AI 関連という看板だけで買う投資から距離を置くこと であ
る。国内金利 3％という機会費用を上回るリターンを狙うため、企業の財務基盤を見極め、
自身のポートフォリオに潜む隠れリスクを点検し、長期的な視点で真に競争力のある企業を
資産形成に組み込んでいくことが、これまで以上に重要になる。

1. 「日本の長期金利 3％時代」はAI株ブームを終わらせるのか 
生成AIの登場以降、株式市場はAI関連企業を中心に力強く上昇してきた。半導体メーカーや巨
大IT企業（ハイパースケーラー）の株価は歴史的な高値圏で推移し、AIへの期待が市場全体を牽
引する熱狂的な投資ブームが形成された。日本の個人投資家にとっても、AI関連銘柄やAIをテー
マとする投資信託は資産形成における魅力的な投資対象として広く認知されている。 
しかし足元では、AI株ブームを支える金融環境に大きな変化が生じている。日本銀行の金融政
策の正常化に加え、インフレや財政への懸念を背景に、長期金利の指標となる新発10 年物国債利
回りは 2026 年9 月に 3％に達し、1996 年以来の水準となった。 「長期金利3％時代」はもはや想定

### Page 2

2/6 
ではなく、現実である。 
国内の安全資産である日本国債の利回りが３％に達する環境では、個人投資家が為替リスクや
株価変動リスクを負って米国のAI株に投資する際に求める収益率、すなわち「要求リターン」も
高まる。さらに、AI企業の主戦場である米国でも、FRBが2026 年9 月に利上げに踏み切るなど、
高金利環境が続いている。一般に、金利上昇は、将来の成長への期待からPER（株価収益率）が高
くなっているグロース株（成長株）にとって逆風となる。金利が上昇すると、企業が将来生み出
す利益を現在の価値に換算した金額が小さくなり、高い株価を支えにくくなるためだ。 
日本の金利復活と、米国の高金利環境。この二つの波は、かつてない成長が期待されるAI株の
ブームを終わらせる引き金となるのか。本稿では、世界的な高金利環境がAI関連株の株価評価や
企業の資金調達・財務に与える影響を最新のデータで確認したうえで、長期金利3％時代に日本の
個人投資家がAI株とどう向き合うべきかを考えたい。

2. 高金利が促す「AI株の選別」の時代 
(1) 高金利下で削られるAI株の「期待」とバリュエーション調整 
長期金利の上昇局面において、まず起きるのは、AI株に織り込まれてきた成長期待の後退であ
る。AI企業の利益水準が急激に悪化していなくとも、金利上昇に加え、巨額のAI投資の将来収益
性や債務発行の増加に対する懸念が高まれば、これまで正当化されてきた高いPERを維持すること
は難しくなる。 
実際、2026 年夏にはAI関連株において顕著なバリュエーション調整が観察された。国際決済銀
行（BIS）が2026 年9 月に公表した四半期報告書（Quarterly Review）によれば、AI株ブームを
牽引してきたハイパースケーラーのPERは約15％低下し、半導体メーカーのPERに至っては約40％
もの大幅な低下を記録した。資料1 は、米国株全体のバリュエーションが高止まりする中で、ハ
イパースケーラー等のバリュエーションが調整された動きを示している。BISは、これらの企業の
利益自体は堅調であったにもかかわらず、株価の勢いが鈍り、投資家の懸念を反映する形でバリ
ュエーションの低下が生じたと説明している。

### Page 3

3/6 
資料 1 米国株とハイパースケーラー等の PER の歴史的分布 
（注）期間は 2000 年 1 月から 2026 年 9 月。箱ひげ図は同期間の中央値、四分位範囲、十分位範囲を示す。赤線は 2000 年 1
月、青丸は 2026 年 9 月の値。 
（出所）Bank for International Settlements, “BIS Quarterly Review, September 2026”をもとに第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作
成

(2) 株式市場に残されていない「金利上昇への余裕」 
こうしたAI株のバリュエーション調整の背景には、米国の株式市場全体に金利上昇を吸収する
余裕がほとんど残されていないという構造的な問題がある。投資家が安全資産である国債ではな
く、リスクを取って株式を保有する際に求める追加的な期待リターン、すなわち「株式リスクプ
レミアム」は現在、歴史的な低水準に沈んでいる。 
米連邦準備制度理事会（FRB）が 2026 年5 月に公表した金融安定報告書（Financial Stability 
Report）によれば、2026 年 4 月時点の株式リスクプレミアムは約 2.8％ポイントにとどまってい
る。これは、長期的な中央値である4.59％ポイントを約1.8％ポイント下回る水準である。資料2
が示す通り、FRBもこの状況を「20 年ぶりの低水準近辺」と表現している。リスクプレミアムが極
端に薄い環境では、金利上昇を吸収する余地が小さく、AI株のように将来の成長期待が価格に大
きく織り込まれた高バリュエーション銘柄ほど、その影響を受けやすいと考えられる。

### Page 4

4/6 
資料 2 株式リスクプレミアムの推移 
（注）期間は 1991 年 10 月から 2026 年 4 月。株式リスクプレミアムは、S&P500 企業の予想益回り（12 カ月先）と予想実質米国債
利回りの差分として推計。赤線は期間中の中央値（4.59％ポイント）を示す。 
（出所）Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System, “Financial Stability Report, May 2026”をもとに第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所作成

(3) 財務体質によるAI株の「選別」の本格化 
ただし、こうしたバリュエーション調整がAI関連株全体に同じ強さで及ぶとは考えにくい。金
利上昇の影響は、企業がどのように投資資金を賄っているかによって大きく異なる。営業キャッ
シュフローの範囲で設備投資を続けられる企業と、社債や借入に依存して設備投資を拡大してき
た企業とでは、資金調達コストの上昇が業績に与える打撃の大きさが違うからである。 
国際通貨基金（IMF）が2026 年4 月の国際金融安定報告書（Global Financial Stability Repo
rt）でAI企業 73 社を対象に行った分析は、この非対称性を明確に示している。資料3 の通り、ハ
イパースケーラーはAI企業群全体の売上の61％、債務の55％を占める巨大な存在であるが、現時
点では高い収益性に支えられ、総合的にみて相対的に財務の脆弱性が低いと評価されている。こ
れとは対照的に、GPU/ネオクラウド、データマネージャー/ソフトウェア、データセンターといっ
たセクターの企業群では、財務上の脆弱性が目立つ結果となっている。市場はすでに、AI関連で
あれば何でも買うという局面を抜けつつある。今後は、高金利下でも自己資金で投資を続けられ
る企業と、資金調達コストの上昇で成長計画の修正を迫られる企業とを、財務データに基づいて
見分けていくことが投資の前提になる。

### Page 5

5/6 
資料 3 AI バリュースタックにおける企業群とバランスシートの脆弱性 
（注）AI エコシステムを構成する 73 社を対象とした分析。赤色は脆弱性が高い（レバレッジが高い、流動性が低いなど）ことを示
し、緑色は脆弱性が低いことを示す。 
（出所）International Monetary Fund, “Global Financial Stability Report, April 2026”をもとに第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

3. 個人投資家に求められるのは「テーマ買い」からの卒業と「選別」 
第 1 章で掲げた「日本の長期金利3％時代はAI 株ブームを終わらせるのか」という問いに、筆
者は次のように答えたい。ブームそのものが終わるというより、その中身が変わるのではない
か。国内の10 年国債で3％の利回りが得られることは、個人投資家にとって、リスクを取って海
外資産へ投資する意義を改めて問い直す契機となる。しかし、それはAI 株への投資を全面否定す
るものではない。第2 章で確認したように、世界的な高金利環境は、AI 株に織り込まれた成長期
待への評価を厳しくし、リスクに見合うリターンを確保できるかどうかを投資家に問いかける。
こうした環境では、市場全体が売られる局面もあり得るが、中長期的には、財務体質に基づく銘
柄の選別が進むと考える。 
この新たなフェーズにおいて、個人投資家の投資行動も見直しが必要になる。AI 関連銘柄やAI
テーマ型ファンドであるという理由だけで資金を投じてきた投資家は、とりわけ注意が必要だ。
筆者が考える現実的な対応は三つある。 
第一に、テーマではなく個々の企業の財務基盤を見ることである。国内の10 年国債利回りが
3％に達した環境では、それを上回るリターンが本当に期待できるのかを、これまで以上に厳しく
問う必要がある。第2 章でみたように、金利上昇の影響は自己資金で投資できる企業と外部資金
に依存する企業とで大きく異なる。決算資料で有利子負債の水準やフリーキャッシュフローの推

### Page 6

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
6/6 
移を確認する程度のことでも、成長ストーリーだけを見て買うのとは結果が変わってくるはず
だ。 
第二に、自身のポートフォリオにAI 関連株がどれだけ入っているかを把握することである。米
国株や全世界株のインデックスファンド、あるいは大型成長株ファンドを保有している場合、す
でに AI 関連株を相当な割合で保有している。その中に、金利上昇に脆弱な企業がどの程度含まれ
ているかを認識しておく必要がある。過度な集中投資を避け、資産全体のリスクバランスを再確
認すべきである。 
第三に、目先のバリュエーション調整に過度に反応しないことである。金利上昇による株価の
調整は、過熱した期待が修正される過程でもある。AI 技術の社会実装や企業の生産性向上への期
待という長期的なトレンドは続いている。 
長期金利3％という環境は、AI 投資をやめる理由ではないが、これまでと同じやり方を続ける
理由にもならない。金利上昇に耐えられる財務体質を備えているかを確かめ、投資する理由に納
得できる企業を選び、資産形成に組み込んでいく。地道ではあるが、それがこれからのAI 投資の
基本になると考えている。

以 上

【参考文献】 
・Bank for International Settlements (2026) “BIS Quarterly Review, September 2026” 
・Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System (2026) “Financial Stability Report, 
May 2026” 
・International Monetary Fund (2026) “Global Financial Stability Report, April 2026”

---
## Document 626: 易方达优质企业公告：张坤卸任基金经理

Source PDF: all report pdf/易方达优质企业公告：张坤卸任基金经理.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
张坤仍担任易⽅达蓝筹、易⽅达优质精选、易⽅达亚洲精选的基⾦经理
摘要：
9 ⽉ 30 ⽇凌晨，易⽅达基⾦管理有限公司发布公告，宣布旗下易⽅达优质企业三年持有期混合型
证券投资基⾦发⽣基⾦经理变更：
张坤正式卸任该基⾦经理职务，后续该基⾦将由张琦单独管理。
此前，该基⾦于 6 ⽉ 27 ⽇公告增聘张琦为共同管理的基⾦经理，本次调整后，张琦将单独掌管这
只基⾦。
张琦是谁？
资料显⽰，张琦是⼯学博⼠， 2017 年 7 ⽉加⼊易⽅达基⾦公司，曾任投资经理、⾏业研究员，
2022 年 4 ⽉开始出任基⾦经理  。
张琦的投资聚焦技术变迁和社会变⾰，偏好从全局维度观察产业，以⾃上⽽下的⽅式优选成⻓
型公司。⾃任职以来，其管理的多只基⾦任职回报⾼于同期业绩⽐较基准。
来⾃⾏业内部的信息称，张琦是易⽅达内部培养的权益投资⻣⼲，⻛格偏向基本⾯研究驱动。

此次其独⽴执掌易⽅达优质企业三年期，也被视为易⽅达在梯队建设与⻛格传承上的⼀次有序
安排。
张坤仍在
相关公告亦指出，此次基⾦经理变动后，张坤仍将继续担任易⽅达基⾦管理有限公司⾼级董事
总经理及权益投资决策委员会委员，其管理的其他基⾦亦保持不变。
⽬前，张坤参与管理的三只基⾦分别为，易⽅达蓝筹精选混合、易⽅达亚洲精选股票和易⽅达
优质精选混合 (QDII) 。
其中，易⽅达蓝筹精选由张坤和杨思亮、何⼀铖⼀起管理；易⽅达优质精选混合 (QDII) 由张坤和
彭珂共管，张坤独⾃掌管易⽅达亚洲精选股票基⾦。
近年来，头部公募基⾦经理主动压降管理规模、聚焦核⼼产品的动作颇多。此前有消息称，调
整张坤的基⾦管理模式，也是为了便于他管理精⼒的主动收缩与聚焦，想来，此次调整亦是相
关思路的延续。
限免
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

85 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 683: 米国・カナダ間で激化する貿易戦争 ～将来的に自動車関税が引き上げられる場合、日系企業にも深刻な影響～

Source PDF: all report pdf/米国・カナダ間で激化する貿易戦争 ～将来的に自動車関税が引き上げられる場合、日系企業にも深刻な影響～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-14
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

US Trends

2026 年 9 月 14 日

1/5 
米国・カナダ間で激化する貿易戦争 
～将来的に自動車関税が引き上げられる場合、日系企業にも深刻な影響～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  前田 和馬 
（℡：050-5473-3888）

（要旨） 
○ 米国とカナダの貿易戦争が激化している。ただし、現時点における追加関税の対象は限定的
であり、両国経済への影響は小さいとみられる。仮に貿易戦争が長期化する場合、対米依存
度の高いカナダの方が影響は相対的に大きくなりやすい一方、カナダの世論調査は対米報復
措置を支持している。 
○ マクロ的な影響が限られる一方、米国の一部の州や産業に貿易戦争の影響が及ぶ場合、11月
中間選挙における接戦州の情勢が変化するかが注目される。仮に共和党の敗因として関税措
置が挙げられる場合、米国の保護貿易政策への歯止めになることが期待される。 
○ 北米に進出する日系製造業の米加貿易は自動車産業に集中している。トランプ大統領は対カ
ナダの自動車関税を2027年 1 月に現状の 25%から 50%へ引き上げる方針を示しており、両国
の貿易戦争が緩和せずにこれが実現する場合、日系製造業の大幅なコスト増へと繋がる懸念
がある。

### Page 2

2/5 
1. はじめに 
 米国とカナダの間で貿易戦争が激化している。米国とカナダのUSMCA（米国・メキシコ・カナダ
協定；現協定は2036 年に失効予定）見直し協議が難航するなか、8月 22日に米トランプ政権は約
200 億ドルの対カナダ輸入に関して50%の追加関税を発動した（1930年関税法338条に基づく措
置） 。トランプ政権は関税発動の理由として、 「カナダが自動車・同部品、乳製品、アルコールの
輸入を巡って、米国を他国よりも不利に扱っている」と指摘している。なお、こうしたカナダに
よる貿易措置の一部は、トランプ政権が2025年3月以降に対カナダ関税を引き上げたことに対す
る報復措置だ。一方、カナダのカーニー首相は9月 8日に同規模（約200億ドル）の米国輸入に
対して 15～50%の報復関税を発動した。米国はこれへの対抗措置として、9 月 15 日に追加関税の
対象品目を拡大するほか、29 日にはアルコール飲料や一部乳製品等への禁輸措置を実施するな
ど、両国の対立が激化している。 
 米国よりもカナダの方が米加貿易の依存度が大きいものの（図表1） 、現時点において追加関税
の対象は限定されており、両国経済に関する影響は限定的に留まると見込まれる。

図表 1：米加貿易の規模（25年：各国GDP比）  図表 2：米国における国別の実効関税率

出所: 米センサス局、米商務省、カナダ統計局、加イノベーション・科学経済開発省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究
所が作成

2. 米国経済への影響 
 米国にとってのカナダは、メキシコに次ぐ主要な貿易相手国である。米国の輸出総額に占めるカ
ナダの割合は15.3%（GDP対比：1.1%）、輸入総額では 11.2%（同、1.2%）にそれぞれ達する（2025
年）。対カナダ輸入を巡って、第二次トランプ政権は広範な品目への関税率を引き上げた一方、
USMCAに準拠した輸入品には適用除外措置等が採用されたため、カナダに対する関税率の上昇は限
定された（図表2）。2026年前半における実効関税率は全世界で7.4%（トランプ政権以前の24年
1.2 1.1
11.1
17.3
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
対カナダ
輸入
対カナダ
輸出
対米
輸入
対米
輸出
米国 カナダ
(GDP比%)
7.4
3.1
23.9
11.1
3.6
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
世界 カナダ 中国 日本     
24年 25年 26年前半(%)

### Page 3

3/5 
実績：2.3%） 、中国が23.9%（同、10.7%） 、日本が11.1%（1.6%）に対して、カナダは3.1%
（0.1%）と主要国でも低水準に留まっている。 
 米国による対カナダ輸入への関税発動はワインやホッケースティックなど約200億ドル分の輸
入を対象としており、これまでの関税措置のようにUSMCAに準拠した製品への免除措置はない。た
だ、対象規模は全輸入の0.6%、対カナダ輸入の5.2%にそれぞれ留まる（GDP比では0.1%未満）。こ
のため、米国の実効関税率に対する影響は全体で0.2%程度、対カナダで2.6%程度と試算されるな
ど、上昇幅は限定的だ。なお、米国はカナダへの対抗措置として対象品目を9 月 15日に拡大する
予定であるが、これと同時に一部品目を対象から除外するため、関税対象の輸入規模は小幅な変
化に留まるとみられる。加えて、新たに発表された禁輸措置は対象が更に限定される。禁輸対象
で輸入額の大きい品目にはバーボンウイスキーやワインなどのアルコール飲料が挙げられるな
ど、仮にカナダ以外の代替調達が困難となっても他産業への波及効果は小さいだろう（図表3）。 
 他方、カナダによる対米報復関税は鉄鋼や家電・家具、衣類など対象が多岐にわたる。これは
米国の対カナダ輸出を押し下げる要因となるものの、これも米国経済全体に与える影響は限定的
とみられる。中西部の一部州では輸出全体の3～4割をカナダ向けが占める一方（図表4） 、報復対
象の輸出規模は約 200億ドル（米国の輸出全体の0.9%）に留まる。カナダとの経済的結びつきが
強いメインやミシガンにおいても、悪影響を受ける輸出額は州経済規模（GDP）の0.2～0.4%と試
算される（図表5）。もっとも、特定州の一部産業に悪影響が集中する可能性は否定できず、こう
した貿易戦争が連邦上院選におけるメインやミシガン、オハイオなどの接戦州の選挙結果を左右
するかが注目される。仮に中間選挙後において、接戦州の共和党の敗因として関税措置が挙げら
れる場合、米国の保護貿易的な動きに対する政治的な歯止めとなることが期待される。

図表3：米国における品目別の対カナダ輸入額（横軸）とカナダの輸入シェア（縦軸）

（出所）米センサス局、ホワイトハウスより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 4

4/5 
図表 4：輸出全体に占めるカナダ向けの割合  図表 5：追加関税対象となる対カナダ輸出

注：紫色は連邦上院選の接戦州。関税対象となる輸出規模は CBC の推計値を用いて算出。 
出所: 米センサス局、CBCより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が作成

3. カナダ経済への影響 
 カナダ経済にとって対米貿易への依存度は非常に高い。2025年において、対米輸出は輸出全体
の 72.3%（GDP比17.3%） 、対米輸入は全体の45.9%（同、11.1%）と圧倒的なシェアを占める。ま
た、今回の貿易戦争で影響を受ける米加貿易額は400 億ドル（両国がそれぞれ200億ドル相当の
輸入品の関税を引き上げ）に達し、これはカナダGDPの 1.7%に及ぶ（米国は0.1%）。とはいえ、例
えば米国が関税を引き上げた品目の対米輸出が10%減少しようとも、GDPへの影響は0.1%未満であ
る。また、カナダ政府は米国への報復措置と同時に、国内経済への影響を緩和するための資金繰
り支援策等にも取り組むと表明している。このため、今回の貿易戦争がカナダ経済への景気後退
を招くほどの影響はないとみられる。実際、カナダ中銀のマックレム総裁は9 月政策決定会合後
の記者会見において、貿易戦争による不確実性が企業の設備投資や採用の先送りにつながるリス
クを指摘した一方、米国の関税措置が経済活動に大きな影響を及ぼす可能性を否定している。 
この間、カナダの世論調査（8 月22～23日実施）をみると、国民の76%が「対米貿易交渉の打
ち切りは正しい」と評価し、62%が「米国への報復措置は概ね妥当」と述べている。このため、貿
易戦争が続いた場合の経済的なダメージはカナダの方がより大きいとみられるものの、現時点に
おいて、カナダ側に妥協を促すような国民世論は形成されていない。

4. 日系企業への影響 
上記でみたように、現時点において米国とカナダへの影響は相対的に抑制されると見込まれ
る。最後に海外事業活動基本調査（2024年度実績）に基づき、北米に進出する日系企業への影響
を確認する。なお、カナダの計数は北米地域の集計値からアメリカを差し引くことで算出した。 
0 20 40 60 80 100
ノースダコタ
ウェストバージニア
メイン
ミシガン
オハイオ
アイオワ
ウィスコンシン
インディアナ
ケンタッキー
アラスカ
テキサス
(%)
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6
ノースダコタ
ウェストバージニア
メイン
ミシガン
オハイオ
アイオワ
ウィスコンシン
インディアナ
ケンタッキー
アラスカ
テキサス
(GDP比%)

### Page 5

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
5/5 
 まず、自動車を中心とした輸送機械産業において、米国法人からのカナダ向け輸出、及びカナ
ダ法人からの米国向け輸出が合計で12.2兆円に達し、これは北米法人（米国＋カナダ）における
売上高の46%を占める。これまでの自動車産業はUSMCAによる関税免除の利点を活かし、部品など
が完成車となるまでに米国・カナダや米国・メキシコの国境を複数回越えるなど、北米一帯で統
合的なサプライチェーンを構築してきた。一方、トランプ大統領は2027年 1月からカナダに対す
る自動車関税を現行の25%から 50%へ引き上げると表明しており、これが実現する場合の自動車産
業への影響は大きい。米国の対カナダ自動車輸入（HSコード87：部品等を含む）の実効関税率は
2024 年に0.2%だった一方、2026年1～7 月には9.1%へと上昇している。この背景には、通商拡大
法 232 条に基づく自動車関税により、USMCAの原産地規則を満たしていても、完成車の非米国産部
材に対して25%関税が課されることがある。仮に自動車関税が50%へと引き上げられ、実効関税率
が倍増する場合、日系企業のコスト負担は約3,900億円拡大すると試算される（=カナダ法人の対
米輸出[4.3兆円]×9.1%） 。他方、輸送機械以外の製造業は米国法人によるカナダへの輸出、及び
カナダへの進出そのものが限定的であり、企業収益への影響は限られるだろう。

図表 6：日系米国法人の売上構成  図表 7：日系カナダ法人の売上構成

出所: 経済産業省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が作成

以 上 
0
20
40
60
80
100
製造業 (輸送
機械)
(輸送機
械以外)
非製造業
現地販売 カナダ向け輸出
第三国向け輸出 日本向け輸出
(兆円)
0
2
4
6
8
10
製造業 (輸送
機械)
(輸送機
械以外)
非製造業
現地販売 米国向け輸出
第三国向け輸出 日本向け輸出
(兆円)

---
## Document 687: 米国経済展望2026年９月号：中間選挙後に懸念される政治分断と生活苦の悪循環（PDF：1106KB）

Source PDF: all report pdf/米国経済展望2026年９月号：中間選挙後に懸念される政治分断と生活苦の悪循環（PDF：1106KB）.pdf
Report source: JRI
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

米 国 経 済 展 望
2026年９月
調査部 マクロ経済研究センター
https://www.jri.co.jp/report/medium/usa/

### Page 2

◆「経済・政策情報メールマガジン」、「X（旧Twitter）」 、「YouTube」でも情報を発信しています。

### Page 3

米国
(株)日本総合研究所 米国経済展望 2026年９月
◆消費は堅調
個人消費は緩やかな増加基調を維持。７月の実
質個人消費は前月から横ばいにとどまったものの、従
来７月に実施されるオンラインセールが前倒しされた
ことによる一時的な財消費の減少が主因 。こうした
特殊要因を除けば、消費は増勢を維持。８月の実
質小売売上高も前月比＋ 0.8％と、前月 （同
▲0.6％）から反発。
◆先行きの消費は底堅く推移
以下２点から、先行きの個人消費は底堅く推移
する見通し。
第１に、底堅い労働市場。８月の非農業部門雇
用者数は、前月に大きく減少した宿泊・飲食業や政
府部門の反動増を受けて大幅に増加。基調として、
雇用は緩やかに増加。７月の求人倍率も４ヵ月連
続で１倍を上回って推移。
第２に、資産効果。昨今の株高を受けて 、金融
資産を中心に家計の純資産は増加基調。先行きも、
好調な企業業績に伴う株高が資産効果を通じて高
所得層を中心とした消費を下支えする公算。
◆住宅市場の低迷は長期化
住宅市場は不振 。高金利が家計の住宅購入を

抑制するなか 、全米住宅建設業協会 （ＮＡＨ
Ｂ）が公表する住宅市場指数は低下基調で推移 。
当面、住宅市場は低迷が続く見通し。ＦＲＢによ
る利上げを背景に、住宅ローン金利が上昇し、需要
が下押しされると予想。
概況：個人消費は緩やかな増加基調
2
2
3
4
5
6
7
820
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
2019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
NAHB住宅市場指数（左目盛）
住宅ローン金利（30年固定、右逆目盛）
住宅ローン金利とＮＡＨＢ住宅市場指数
（ポイント）
（年/月）（資料）MBA、NAHBを基に日本総研作成
（％）
↑好調
↓不調
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2023 24 25 26
求人倍率（左目盛）
非農業部門雇用者数（右目盛）
（倍）
（資料）BLSを基に日本総研作成
（注）非農業部門雇用者数は後方3ヵ月移動平均。
（年/月）
（前月差、万人）
非農業部門雇用者数と求人倍率

▲ 30
▲ 15
0
15
30
45
60
75
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
25
2019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
金融資産（左目盛）
住宅資産（左目盛）
負債（左目盛）
純資産（左目盛）
（資料）FRB、Bloomberg L.P.を基に日本総研作成
（注）S&P500の最新値は7月1日～9月15日の平均値。
（年/期末）
（％）
S&P500（右目盛）
（％）
家計部門の純資産内訳と株価（前年比）
▲ 0.8
▲ 0.6
▲ 0.4
▲ 0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
2024 25 26
サービス
財
実質個人消費（3ヵ月移動平均）
実質個人消費
（資料）BEAを基に日本総研作成
（％）
（年/月）
実質個人消費（前月比）

### Page 4

米国
(株)日本総合研究所 米国経済展望 2026年９月
◆企業部門は好調
企業の景況感は良好。本年入り後、ＩＳＭ景況
感指数は製造業・非製造業ともに好 ・不況の節目
となる50を上回って推移 。内訳をみると 、生産・事
業活動や新規受注の増加が全体を押し上げ。
企業の生産活動は拡大 。鉱工業生産は足元で
持ち直し。品目別にみると 、旺盛なＡＩ需要を背
景とするコンピュータ・電子製品の増産が全体を押し
上げ。
◆旺盛なＡＩ需要が設備投資を下支え
先行き、設備投資は増勢を維持する見通し 。利
上げに伴う長期金利の上昇が重石となる一方 、旺
盛なＡＩ需要が設備投資をけん引すると予想。さら
に、企業利益の増加による投資余力の改善が設備
投資を下支えする見込み。４～６月期の税引き後
利益は前年比ベースで約４年ぶりの高い伸び。
◆中東危機の深刻化が投資のリスクに
もっとも、中東危機の深刻化に伴うインフレ懸念の
高まりを受けて 、ＦＲＢが政策金利を大幅に引き
上げた場合 、資金調達コストの増加を通じて設備

投資が下押しされる可能性 。足元では、米銀の貸
出態度の厳格化は一服しているものの 、大幅な利
上げに伴って再び厳格化に転じれば 、企業の資金
調達が困難になる恐れ。
概況：設備投資は増勢を維持する見込み
3
46
48
50
52
54
56
58
2024 25 26
製造業 非製造業
（ポイント）
（資料）ISMを基に日本総研作成 （年/月）
↑好況
↓不況
ＩＳＭ景況感指数
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
2000 05 10 15 20 25
税引き後企業利益（4期平均）
名目設備投資
（％）
（資料）BEAを基に日本総研作成
（注）税引き後企業利益は2期先行。
（年/期）
企業利益と設備投資（前年比）
▲ 40
▲ 20
0
20
40
60
80
100
2000 05 10 15 20 25
大企業・中堅企業向け
中小企業向け
（「厳格化」-「緩和」、ポイント）
（資料）FRB、NBERを基に日本総研作成
（注）シャドーは景気後退期。
（年/期）
米銀の企業向け貸出態度ＤＩ

貸出態度
厳格化
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
2018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
鉱工業生産<100>
コンピュータ・電子製品<5.0>
その他鉱工業<95.0>
（2018年＝100）
（資料）FRBを基に日本総研作成
（注）<>内は指数全体に占める2025年のシェア。
（年/月）
鉱工業生産

### Page 5

米国
(株)日本総合研究所 米国経済展望 2026年９月4
◆中間選挙の争点となる「アフォーダビリティ」
11月３日に投開票を控える中間選挙では、物価
高を背景に 、生活費を無理なく賄えるかという 「ア
フォーダビリティ」が有権者にとって最大の争点に。
アフォーダビリティ悪化の影響は所得に占める生活
必需品支出の割合が高い低中所得層ほど深刻。こ
うした層の不満が与党 ・共和党への逆風となり 、民
主党が下院を奪還し、ねじれ議会が生じると予想。
◆懸念される生活苦とポピュリズムの悪循環
既存政治への不満を背景に、左右双方で大衆迎
合的な勢力が伸長 。世論調査によると 、民主党で
は支持者の３分の１が民主社会主義者であると回
答したほか、共和党ではＭＡＧＡ派が支持者の約
半数を占める状況。
政治姿勢の先鋭化が、以下２点を通じて家計負
担を増幅させる負のスパイラルをもたらす可能性。
第１に、内政の停滞。政治分断の深まりにより超
党派での合意形成が難しくなり 、家計支援策などを
機動的に講じられず、生活苦が長期化する恐れ。

第２に、対外姿勢の強硬化。内政での政策実現
が難しくなるなか、ＭＡＧＡ派の支持を背景に、トラ
ンプ政権は選挙後に関税引き上げや軍事介入を含
む対外政策に注力する可能性 。この場合、財やエ
ネルギーに対する供給面からのインフレ圧力が高まり 、
低所得層を中心に家計の購買力が一段と下押しさ
れる見込み。
トピック：中間選挙後に懸念される政治分断と生活苦の悪循環
0 5 10 15 20
トランプ
対外政策
税金
ヘルスケア
移民
経済全般
政治倫理・政府改革
生活費/アフォーダビリティ
（％）（資料）Pew Research Centerを基に日本総研作成
（注）2026年7月6～12日に実施されたアンケート調査。
中間選挙において米有権者が重視する争点
左右ポピュリ
ストの台頭と
政治分断
内政面では、
ねじれ議会で
超党派の合意
形成が困難に
外交面では、
大きな権限を
持つ大統領が
対外姿勢を
強硬化
関税引き上げ、軍事介入の
積極化で供給制約が深刻化
アフォーダビリティを改善させる政策

を機動的に打ち出せず
インフレ圧力が増大、
低所得層を中心に打撃
生活苦
既存政治
への怒り・
失望
（資料）日本総研作成
生活苦とポピュリズムの悪循環
30
35
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
2023 24 25 26
（％）
（年/月/週）（資料）The Economist/YouGovを基に日本総研作成
共和党支持者に占めるＭＡＧＡ派の割合
米国議会における法案成立数
（資料）米国立公文書記録管理局を基に日本総研作成
議会 法案成立数 議会 法案成立数
104 333 103 465
105 394 107 377
106 580 108 498
110 460 109 482
112 283 111 383
113 296 115 442
114 329 117 362
116 344
118 274
平均法案成立数 366 平均法案成立数 430
ねじれ議会 統一政府

### Page 6

米国
(株)日本総合研究所 米国経済展望 2026年９月5
◆ＦＲＢは利上げを決定
９月 のＦ ＯＭＣ で、ＦＲ Ｂは政策金利 を
0.25％ポイント引き上げ 。会合後の記者会見で 、
ウォーシュ議長はインフレが依然として高水準にあると
の認識を表明。
同時に公表されたＦＯＭＣ参加者による経済 ・
政策金利見通しでは、物価や政策金利の見通しが
上方修正。
◆年内にも追加利上げを実施する見込み
先行き、ＦＲＢは12月にも追加利上げを実施す
る見通し。背景として、インフレ圧力の高まりが指摘
可能。足元で基調的な物価動向を示すコアＣＰＩ
の伸びが加速しているほか 、中東危機の長期化に
伴うエネルギー高が幅広い品目に波及するリスクが
増大。
◆長期金利は緩やかな上昇が続くと予想
本年入り後、米長期金利は上昇基調で推移。年
初来の上昇幅には 、将来の短期金利の予想経路
の上方修正が主に寄与しており 、タームプレミアムの
寄与は限定的。
先行き、ＦＲＢによる追加利上げを受けて、長期
金利は緩やかに上昇する見通し。

仮に、中東情勢が長期化した場合、エネルギー価
格の高騰を通じて、ＦＲＢは大幅な利上げを余儀
なくされる可能性。その場合、長期金利は急騰する
恐れ。
Fed Watch：年内にも追加利上げか
ウォーシュ議長の記者会見要旨
（資料）各種報道を基に日本総研作成
▲ 0.1
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
2025 26
コア財 住居
住居除くコアサービス 残差
コア消費者物価指数
（資料）BLSを基に日本総研作成
（注）2025年10月は政府閉鎖の影響で未公表。
（％）
（年/月）
コア消費者物価指数（前月比）
インフレは依然として高止まり
金融環境は引き締め的ではない
FRBの最重要課題はインフレ
夏場のデータを見てもインフレが改善した
とは言えず
価格上昇率が3％を超える品目が多すぎる
基調的なインフレが2％に向かっている
と確信できず
FRBの責務のうち雇用は良好
失業率は低水準
求人件数や労働時間は増加
失業保険申請件数は完全雇用を示唆
インフレ
雇用
ＦＯＭＣ参加者の経済・政策金利見通し（中央値）

（資料）FRBを基に日本総研作成
（注）赤字は前回会合からの上方修正、青字は下方修正。
2026年 2027年 2028年 2029年 長期均衡
実質GDP成長率 2026年9月 2.3 2.4 2.2 2.1 2.0
2026年6月 2.2 2.3 2.2 2.0
失業率 2026年9月 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.2
2026年6月 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.2
PCEデフレーター 2026年9月 3.7 2.3 2.1 2.0 2.0
2026年6月 3.6 2.3 2.0 2.0
コアPCEデフレーター 2026年9月 3.4 2.5 2.2 2.0 ー
2026年6月 3.3 2.5 2.1 ー
政策金利 2026年9月 4.1 4.1 3.9 3.6 3.2
2026年6月 3.8 3.6 3.4 3.1
▲ 0.4
▲ 0.2
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
2026/1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9
将来の短期金利織り込み
タームプレミアム
10年債利回り

（資料）NY連銀を基に日本総研作成
（％ポイント）
（年/月/日）
10年債利回りの期間構造（年初来上昇幅）

### Page 7

米国
(株)日本総合研究所 米国経済展望 2026年９月6
米国景気・金利見通し：景気は拡大、長期金利は緩やかに上昇
米国経済・物価見通し◆景気は回復へ
先行き、米国景気は緩やかな拡大基調を維持す
る見通し。旺盛なＡＩ需要を背景に設備投資が増
加するほか、株高に伴う資産効果が高所得層を中
心とした消費をけん引する 見込み。加えて、家計の
所得環境の改善も景気を下支えする公算。本年の
実質ＧＤＰ成長率は２％台を維持すると予想。
◆長期金利は緩やかに上昇へ
ＦＲＢは、エネルギー高が基調的なインフレ圧力
を高めることを防ぐため 、12月にも追加で利上げを
実施する見込み。
これを受けて、長期金利は緩やかに上昇する見通
し。仮に、中東危機が長期化した場合 、エネルギー
価格の高騰を通じて、ＦＲＢが想定以上の利上げ
を余儀なくされる可能性。その場合、長期金利は急
騰する恐れ。
米国金利見通し
関税率想定
国別 関税率 品目別 関税率
医薬品 100%
鉄鋼
アルミニウム
銅
自動車
半導体
木製家具

木材 10%
日本など
60ヵ国
・地域
10~12.5%
25%
50%
(四半期は季調済前期比年率、％、％ポイント）
2026年
７～９ 10～12 １～３ ４～６ ７～９ 10～12 １～３ ４～６
（実績） （予測） （実績） （予測）
実質ＧＤＰ 4.4 0.5 2.1 1.5 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.1 2.1 2.0 2.1
個人消費 3.5 1.9 0.5 3.4 2.3 1.8 1.9 1.9 2.6 2.1 2.1
住宅投資 ▲ 7.1 ▲ 1.7 ▲ 7.8 1.3 ▲ 2.5 ▲ 1.4 ▲ 0.8 ▲ 0.7 ▲ 2.2 ▲ 3.7 ▲ 0.9
設備投資 3.2 2.4 10.6 8.5 5.0 5.0 5.0 5.0 4.1 6.4 5.2
在庫投資（寄与度） ▲ 0.1 0.1 0.2 ▲ 0.7 0.3 0.0 0.0 0.0 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.3 0.0
政府支出 2.2 ▲ 5.6 4.4 ▲ 1.0 1.4 1.8 1.6 1.6 1.1 0.4 1.5

純輸出（寄与度） 1.6 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 1.1 ▲ 0.9 ▲ 0.3 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 0.3 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.0 ▲ 0.4
輸出 9.6 ▲ 3.2 10.9 4.5 3.0 2.9 2.8 3.8 1.6 4.5 3.4
輸入 ▲ 4.4 ▲ 1.0 11.8 12.5 8.0 4.1 4.2 4.3 2.7 3.3 5.2
実質最終需要 3.5 0.3 3.1 3.5 2.5 2.3 2.3 2.4 2.4 2.5 2.5
消費者物価 2.9 2.8 2.7 3.9 3.6 3.8 3.3 2.3 2.7 3.5 2.5
除く食料・ｴﾈﾙｷﾞｰ 3.1 2.7 2.5 2.7 2.5 2.7 2.5 2.4 2.9 2.6 2.43.06287 2.6947 2.51849 2.73159 2.47154 2.68127 2.52296 2.37583
（資料）BEA、BLSを基に日本総研作成
（注）在庫投資、純輸出の年間値は前年比寄与度、四半期値は前期比年率寄与度。消費者物価は前年（同期）比。

2027年2025年 2026年2025年 2027年
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
2025/6 9 12 26/3 6 9 12 27/3
（％）
（年/月末）
10年国債利回り
（資料）FRB、Bloomberg L.P.
予測
5.75
4.75
FF金利誘導目標（上限）
6

### Page 8

AI輸出規制の実効性と限界 ―アメリカ対中国を事例とする技術管理政策への示唆 ― 福田直之 9月10日
FIMAレポ活用で為替介入余地は拡大も、円相場への影響は一時的 ―円高トレンドへの
転換には、日米金利差などの円安要因の変化が必要 ― 西村朱央 9月4日
日米政策対話に生じた不協和音 ― 財政・金融政策の不整合と市場の緊張 ― 井上肇 9月3日
長期化する米国の住宅市場の低迷 ― アフォーダビリティ改善の遅れと世帯数の増勢鈍化が
需要を下押し ― 森田一至 8月26日
備蓄放出主導で急増する米国の原油輸出 ― 現行ペースの供給増は維持困難、減少に
転じれば価格押し上げも ― 栂野裕貴 7月31日
欧州経済見通し 立石宗一郎
栂野裕貴 7月31日
アメリカ経済見通し 森田一至 7月31日
世界経済見通し 若林厚仁 7月31日
公表済みのレポート（欧米経済関連）
詳細は、以下のリンクからPDF形式でご覧いただけます。

---
## Document 772: 金银集体杀跌！高油价与美联储高加息预期持续压制贵金属

Source PDF: all report pdf/金银集体杀跌！高油价与美联储高加息预期持续压制贵金属.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

受中东局势影响，布伦特原油突破 100 美元 / 桶，加剧通胀担忧并强化美联储加息预期，美
元与美债收益率⾛⾼，⻩⾦、⽩银等贵⾦属承压下跌。市场关注本周美国 PCE 与⾮农数
据，或将影响⾦价短期⾛势。
摘要：
油价⾼位运⾏叠加美国经济活动⾛强，进⼀步强化市场对美联储维持⾼利率甚⾄继续加息的预
期，⻩⾦价格周⼀延续跌势，贵⾦属市场承压。
截⾄发稿，布伦特原油突破 100 美元 / 桶，⽇内涨超 2.5% ；现货⻩⾦跌破 4150 美元 / 盎司，现货⽩
银跌 5.01% ⾄ 61.08 美元 / 盎司。市场⽬前定价显⽰，美联储 10 ⽉再度加息的概率约为 65% ⾄
70% ，⽩银、铂⾦等贵⾦属同步⾛弱。
美元指数⼩幅上涨 0.1% ⾄ 0.2% ，徘徊在 101 附近，进⼀步压制以美元计价的⻩⾦。另据《华尔
街⽇报》报道， Saxo Bank 分析师称，部分⻩⾦抛售发⽣在亚洲交易时段，或与投资者在⻓假前
提前获利了结有关。
油价⾼企，加息预期升温
油价持续⾼位成为⾦价承压的重要外部因素。

特朗普拒绝伊朗提出的 “7 天重开霍尔⽊兹海峡 ” ⽅案后，伊朗外⻓阿拉格⻬表⽰，伊朗已为战事
重开做好准备，但外交⼤⻔仍未关闭，是否恢复接触取决于美国的选择。据新华社援引伊朗媒
体 27 ⽇报道，阿拉格⻬称，伊朗 “ 已为战事重开做好充分准备 ” ，同时 “ 也随时准备进⾏外交接
触 ” 。
中东冲突⽬前已进⼊第⼋个⽉，布伦特原油年内累计涨幅约 70% 。能源价格持续⾼企加剧通胀
压⼒，也令市场重新评估美联储的利率路径。
美联储 9 ⽉中旬将基准利率上调 25 个基点后，多位官员释放进⼀步加息信号。克利夫兰联储主席
Beth Hammack 表⽰，经济增⻓预期⾛强、政府债务担忧以及进⼀步加息预期，共同推动⻓期美
债收益率上⾏。澳新银⾏（ ANZ ）也指出，油价⾼企叠加美国⼯业活动⾛强，进⼀步强化了市
场对美联储更⻓时间维持紧缩⽴场的预期。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

美债收益率⾛⾼，⻩⾦仍远离历史⾼点
债券市场同样对⻩⾦构成压⼒。 10 年期与 2 年期美债收益率利差上周⼀度收窄⾄ 17 个基点，为
2025 年初以来最低⽔平。收益率曲线持续趋平，意味着持有⽆息资产⻩⾦的机会成本进⼀步上
升。
本⽉以来，⾦价主要在 4230 ⾄ 4510 美元区间波动，⽬前仍较 1 ⽉创下的近 5600 美元历史⾼点明
显回落。 ANZ 认为，较⾼收益率与美元⾛强，使⻩⾦⾯临的宏观环境依然偏紧。
不过，实物需求仍提供⼀定⽀撑。 ANZ 数据显⽰，⻩⾦ ETF 需求保持稳健，本⽉以来相关 ETF 持
仓已增加约 50 吨。
本周两项数据将检验加息预期
政策层⾯，美国财政部⻓ Scott Bessent 呼吁美联储对利率路径保持开放态度，并认为⼈⼯智能
带来的⽣产率提升和放松监管有助于抑制通胀，其判断与当前市场对进⼀步加息的预期存在差
异。
与此同时，美国 9 ⽉消费者信⼼降⾄四个⽉低点，消费者对物价和经济前景的担忧有所升温。
市场接下来将聚焦本周三公布的 8 ⽉ PCE 通胀数据，以及周五发布的 9 ⽉⾮农就业报告。两项数

据将为美联储 10 ⽉议息提供重要参考，也将成为⻩⾦短期⾛势的重要催化因素。

### Page 3

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
304 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
2 条评论
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⼿机⽤⼾
17 ⼩时前 中国⼭东省
0  回复
全球逐渐会对美债⻓期持续⾼息脱敏，
市场资⾦转向购买更多安全资产规避⻛险，
美国 AI 科技巨头债券垃圾债化不可逆。
⼿机⽤⼾ 9364
23 ⼩时前 中国四川省
2  回复
低价好买实物

---
## Document 791: ＦＲＢの過去の利上げサイクルと長期金利の行方 ～過去の利上げパターンを織り込む金融市場～

Source PDF: all report pdf/ＦＲＢの過去の利上げサイクルと長期金利の行方 ～過去の利上げパターンを織り込む金融市場～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-18
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

US Trends

2026 年 9 月 18 日

1/4 
ＦＲＢの過去の利上げサイクルと長期金利の行方 
～過去の利上げパターンを織り込む金融市場～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  前田 和馬 
（℡：050-5473-3888）

2026 年9 月FOMCにおいて、FRBは0.25%ptの利上げを全会一致で決定した（政策金利：3.75～
4.00%）。FRBはコロナ以降の2022 年 3 月にゼロ金利政策から利上げサイクルを開始し、2023 年7
月には政策金利を5.25～5.5%まで引き上げた。その後FRBは 1 年程度金利を据え置いたものの、24
年 9～12 月及び25 年 9～12 月にそれぞれ連続的な利下げへと踏み切り、26 年に入ってからは3.5
～3.75%で金利を据え置いてきた。一方、今回の決定を契機に、FRBが本格的な利上げサイクルへ
転じるのかが注目される。 
ウォーシュ議長は利上げに至った背景として、 「米国経済が堅調であること」 、 「インフレ率が長
期にわたり高止まりしていること」 、 「金融環境が引き締め的ではないとの見方がFOMC内で共有さ
れていること」などを指摘した。一方、同時に公表されたドットチャート（FOMCメンバーの中央
見通し）では 2026 年に追加で1 回の利上げ、27 年の金利据え置き、28 年以降の緩やかな利下げ
パスが示された（図表1～2）。なお、FF金利先物市場（FedWatch；9 月17 日時点）では 2027 年末
までに約3 回の追加利上げ（政策金利：4.50～4.75%）が最も高い確率で織り込まれている。 
先行きの政策金利パスは、AI投資を中心とした米国経済、及び原油価格とその波及によるイン
フレの動向に大きく依存する。もっとも、1990 年代以降の過去6 回の利上げ開始時をみると、当
初 12 か月の平均利上げ幅は2.1％ptであり、1%pt未満の緩慢な利上げは2 回に留まる（図表4）。
ひとつは1997 年3 月の0.25%ptの予防的な利上げであり、その後のFRBは 7 月以降のアジア通貨危
機等を背景に1 年半は金利を据え置き、98 年 9 月にはLTCM破綻危機による金融市場の混乱などを
踏まえ利下げへと転じた。もうひとつは2015 年12 月のゼロ金利政策からの脱却であり、当時の
イエレンFRB議長は長期停滞論やインフレ低迷を背景に1 年ほど追加利上げを見送り、16 年末から
緩やかな利上げサイクルを再開した。すなわち、金融危機（或いはその後遺症）などの特殊な環
境下になければ、利上げを開始した後の12 か月程度で 1％以上政策金利を引き上げるのが一般的
であり、金融市場の予測はこうした利上げペースを意識しているとみられる。 
足下で上昇傾向にある米長期金利を巡っては、イラン戦争の戦費や関税還付等の財政懸念、ハ
イパースケーラーの社債調達による国債需給悪化に加えて、政策金利の先行指標である2 年金利
が上昇するなど当面の利上げ期待で押し上げられている。（ドットチャート通りに）追加利上げが
1 回程度に留まるシナリオが現実味を帯びるのであれば、97 年や15 年と同様に早期の利上げ期待

### Page 2

2/4 
が後退し、長期金利の押し下げ要因となる可能性がある。一方、金融市場の予想するような3 回
の追加利上げ実施、或いは本格的な利上げシナリオが意識される場合、長期金利は高止まりする
懸念が強い。

図表 1：FOMC メンバーの経済見通し  図表 2：ドットチャート（26 年 9 月）

注：ドットチャートの赤点は中央値。 
出所: FRB、フィラデルフィア連銀より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

図表 3：米長短金利

出所: FRB、米財務省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

2026 2027 2028 2029 長期 2026 2027 2028 2029
2.3 2.4 2.2 2.1 2.0 2.1 2.2 2.1 2.4
(2.2) (2.3) (2.2) - (2.0) (2.2) (1.9) (2.2) (2.3)
4.1 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.3
(4.3) (4.3) (4.2) - (4.2) (4.4) (4.5) (4.4) (4.4)
3.7 2.3 2.1 2.0 2.0 3.6 2.3 2.1 -
(3.6) (2.3) (2.0) - (2.0) (3.6) (2.3) (2.2) -
3.4 2.5 2.2 2.0 - 3.3 2.4 2.2 -
(3.3) (2.5) (2.1) - - (3.3) (2.4) (2.1) -
4.1 4.1 3.9 3.6 3.2 - - - -
(3.8) (3.6) (3.4) - (3.1) - - - -
実質GDP
成長率
失業率
コアPCE
インフレ
F O M C メ ン バ ー 民間予測
PCE
インフレ
政策金利
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
2026 2027 2028 2029 Longer
run
(%)
0
2
4
6
8
10
90 95 00 05 10 15 20 25
FF金利 2年金利 10年金利(%)

### Page 3

3/4 
図表 4：過去の利上げ局面

0
2
4
6
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 39 42 45
政策金利の変化
94年2月～ 97年3月～ 99年6月～
04年6月～ 15年12月～ 22年3月～
26年9月～
(%pt)
(か月；利上げ開始＝0)
3
4
5
6
7
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 39 42 45
失業率
94年2月～ 97年3月～
99年6月～ 04年6月～
15年12月～ 22年3月～
(%)
(か月；利上げ開始＝0)
1
2
3
4
5
6
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 39 42 45
コアインフレ率
94年2月～ 97年3月～
99年6月～ 04年6月～
15年12月～ 22年3月～
(前年比%)
(か月；利上げ開始＝0)
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 39 42 45
2年金利の変化
94年2月～ 97年3月～
99年6月～ 04年6月～
15年12月～ 22年3月～
(%pt)
(か月；利上げ開始＝0)
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
0 3 6 9 12 15 18 21 24 27 30 33 36 39 42 45
10年金利の変化
94年2月～ 97年3月～
99年6月～ 04年6月～
15年12月～ 22年3月～
(%pt)
(か月；利上げ開始＝0)

### Page 4

経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。
4/4
注：政策金利、2 年金利、10 年金利に関しては、利上げ開始の前月末からの変化。26 年 9 月～の政策金利は 9 月ドットチャート
に基づき 26 年 12 月に 0.25%の利上げと仮定。コアインフレ率は 99 年 6 月～まではコアCPI、それ以降はコアPCE上昇率。
出所：FRB、BEA、BLS、米財務省、Macrobondより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成
以 上
