# Financial Report Source 14

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 058: 260915_ubs_voltronic

Source PDF: all report pdf/260915_ubs_voltronic.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 12
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

ab 15 September 2026
Global Research
First Read
Voltronic Power
UBS Taiwan Summit 2026 key takeaways:
Earnings growth hinges on UPS/HVDC deliveries
Sales turning to growth in H226; sales mix change driving margin expansion
Management indicated bookings and shipments remained solid in July-Aug despite
temporary PCB shortages, and it expects a sales turnaround to growth in H226. Inverter
sales could stay weak on competition and Voltronic's product portfolio adjustments

(reducing low-margin products). Meanwhile, increasing outsourcing by brands will
support UPS sales growth. Management expects HVDC products to start contributing in
2027. Voltronic added a third customer for HVDC products. We think a higher sales
portion from UPS/HVDC products and inverter product adjustments could bring GM
expansion in 2027.
UPS growth intact;  HVDC and PDU represent the next legs of growth
The company expects sales to resume growth by single digits  in H226  and expects >10%

YoY growth in 2027. Management remains cautious about solar  inverters due to intense
competition from Chinese peers and expects inverter sales to decline as Voltronic adjusts
its product portfolio, focusing more on commercial solar  and premium products. For
2027, management expects offline UPS to grow 0-5%, supported by outsourcing
opportunities and emerging market demand, which could offset notebook weakness.
High-power UPS could account for an increasingly higher sales portion, driven by

accelerating outsourcing by tier 1 customers. For HVDC, management highlighted it
obtained one more client. HVDC product progress is on schedule, with 800VDC power
shelf sampling expected by year-end, a pilot run in H127 and mass production in H227.
The company is preparing testing and production equipment at factories in Taiwan and
China. Over the longer term, management also sees opportunities in PDUs, a market it
estimates at US$5bn in 2025, with a 12-15% sales CAGR over the next 5-8 years.

Margin  improvement on product mix optimisation and higher prices
Voltronic has implemented two UPS price increases this year to offset higher raw
material costs, which it expects to be reflected on its P&L starting in Sept 2026. For solar
inverters, management plans to focus on higher power and premium products with a
GM above 20%, while reducing low-power products with a GM at or below 20% over
the next two to three quarters, which could support GM expansion. In upcoming

quarters, solar inverter products may shrink to <20% of the total sales mix, while higher-
margin businesses such as high-power UPS and HVDC products continue to ramp. We
think the sales mix change will expand margins in 2027.
Valuation: Maintain Buy rating and PT of NT$1,128
We maintain our Buy rating and price target of NT$1,128, based on sum-of-the-parts
analysis, applying 28x/23x/24x 2027E PE for UPS/inverter/PSU business, respectively.
Highlights (NT$m) 12/23 12/24 12/25 12/26E 12/27E 12/28E 12/29E 12/30E

Revenues 18,951 22,813 20,521 19,658 23,278 26,584 29,339 32,221
EBIT (UBS) 4,138 5,115 4,329 3,440 4,404 5,382 6,048 6,677
Net earnings (UBS) 3,623 4,204 3,521 2,540 3,698 4,536 5,100 5,646
EPS (UBS, diluted) (NT$) 41.52 48.13 40.23 29.02 42.26 51.84 58.28 64.52
DPS (net) (NT$) 43.87 37.70 43.00 37.00 25.92 37.75 46.30 52.06
Net (debt) / cash 4,213 5,822 5,779 4,705 6,231 6,978 8,247 8,856
Profitability/valuation 12/23 12/24 12/25 12/26E 12/27E 12/28E 12/29E 12/30E

EBIT (UBS) margin % 21.8 22.4 21.1 17.5 18.9 20.2 20.6 20.7
ROIC (EBIT) % 102.6 124.0 109.9 85.8 105.0 122.6 133.8 143.5
EV/EBITDA (UBS core) x 31.2 27.9 23.3 19.1 15.1 12.3 10.9 9.7
P/E (UBS, diluted) x 39.9 37.4 32.4 30.1 20.7 16.9 15.0 13.5
Equity FCF (UBS) yield % 3.1 2.2 3.6 2.7 5.0 5.3 7.0 6.8
Dividend yield (net) % 2.6 2.1 3.3 4.2 3.0 4.3 5.3 6.0
Source: Company accounts, LSEG Eikon, UBS estimates. Metrics marked as (UBS) have had analyst adjustments applied. Valuations: based on an average share price that year, (E): based on a share

price of NT$ 874.00 on 14-Sep-2026
Equities
Taiwan
Industrial, Diversified
12-month rating Buy
12m price target NT$1,128.00
Price (14 Sep 2026) NT$874.00
RIC: 6409.TW BBG: 6409 TT
Trading data and key metrics
52-wk range NT$1,290.00-663.00
Market cap. NT$76.4b/US$2.41b
Shares o/s 87.4m (ORD)
Free float 72%
Avg. daily volume ('000) 831
Avg. daily value (m) NT$868.7
Common s/h equity (12/26E) NT$8.95b
P/BV (12/26E) 8.5x
Net debt to EBITDA (12/26E) NM

+886-2-8722 7393

### Page 2

Forecast returns
Forecast price appreciation 29.1%
Forecast dividend yield 4.2%
Forecast stock return 33.3%
Market return assumption 6.3%
Forecast excess return 27.0%
Company Description
Founded in 2008, Voltronic is a leading ODM for uninterruptible power supply (UPS) and
inverters. Its major customers include Schneider, Vertiv, and Riello. Voltronic is headquartered
in Taiwan and has production plants in mainland China, Vietnam, and Taiwan.
Valuation Method and Risk Statement

We base our price target on sum of the parts.
We believe the key risks for Voltronic include: 1) a slower-than-expected outsourcing trend
from leading branded UPS companies; 2) a faster-than-expected ramp-up of the electricity
grid in developing countries resulting in lower-than-expected demand for off-grid solar
systems; 3) FX risks; and 4) rising raw material prices.
Key industry-specific risks include: 1) unexpected changes in the underlying global

macroeconomic environment; 2) currency and interest rate movement; and 3) commodity
price inflation.

### Page 3

Quantitative Research Review
UBS Global Research publishes a quantitative assessment of its analysts' responses to certain questions about the likelihood of an occurrence
of a number of short term factors in a product known as the 'Quantitative Research Review'.  The views for this month can be found below.
Views contained in this assessment on a particular stock reflect only the views on those short term factors which are a different timeframe to

the 12-month timeframe reflected in any equity rating set out in this note.  For previous responses please make reference to (i) previous UBS
Global Research reports; and (ii) where no applicable research report was published that month, the Quantitative Research Review which can
be found at https://neo.ubs.com/quantitative, or contact your UBS sales representative for access to the report or the Quantitative Research
Team on ubs-quant-answers@ubs.com. A consolidated report which contains all responses is also available and again you should contact your

UBS sales representative for details and pricing or the Quantitative Research Team on the email above.
Voltronic Power
Question Response
1. Is the industry structure facing the firm likely to improve or deteriorate over the
next six months? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting worse, 3 = no change, 5 =
getting better, N/A = no view)
3
2. Is the regulatory/government environment facing the firm likely to improve or
deteriorate over the next six months? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting tougher

3 = no change, 5 = getting better, N/A = no view)
3
3. Over the last 3-6 months in broad terms have things been improving/no
change/getting worse for this stock? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting a lot
worse, 3 = not much change, 5 = getting a lot better, N/A = no view)
4
4. Relative to the current CONSENSUS EPS forecast, is the next company EPS
update likely to lead to:  (1 = negative surprise vs consensus, 3 = in-line with
consensus, 5 = positive surprise vs consensus expectations, N/A = no view)

3
5. What’s driving the difference?
6. Relative to YOUR current earnings forecast, is there relatively greater risk at the
next earnings result of:(1 = downside skew risk to earnings, 3 = equal upside or
downside risk to earnings, 5 = upside skew risk to earnings, N/A = no view)
3
7. What’s driving the difference?
8. Is there an upcoming catalyst for the company over the next three months?
9. Is there an actual or approximate date for the catalyst?

10. Is the catalyst date an actual or approximate date?
11. What is the catalyst?

### Page 4

reliable indicator of future results. Additional information will be made available upon request. UBS Securities Co. Limited is licensed to
conduct securities investment consultancy businesses by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. UBS acts or may act as principal
in the debt securities (or in related derivatives) that may be the subject of this report. This recommendation was finalized on: 14
September 2026 05:53 PM GMT. UBS has designated certain UBS Global Research department members as Derivatives Research

Analysts where those department members publish research principally on the analysis of the price or market for a derivative, and
provide information reasonably sufficient upon which to base a decision to enter into a derivatives transaction. Where Derivatives
Research Analysts co-author research reports with Equity Research Analysts or Economists, the Derivatives Research Analyst is
responsible for the derivatives investment views, forecasts, and/or recommendations. Quantitative Research Review: UBS Global

Research publishes a quantitative assessment of its analysts' responses to certain questions about the likelihood of an occurrence of a
number of short term factors in a product known as the 'Quantitative Research Review'. Views contained in this assessment on a
particular stock reflect only the views on those short term factors which are a different timeframe to the 12-month timeframe reflected
in any equity rating set out in this note. For the latest responses, please see the Quantitative Research Review Addendum at the back of

this report, where applicable. For previous responses please make reference to (i) previous UBS Global Research reports; and (ii) where
no applicable research report was published that month, the Quantitative Research Review which can be found at https://
neo.ubs.com/quantitative, or contact your UBS sales representative for access to the report or the Quantitative Research Team on ubs-
quant-answers@ubs.com.  A consolidated report which contains all responses is also available and again you should contact your UBS

Each research analyst primarily responsible for the content of this research report, in whole or in part, certifies that with respect to each
security or issuer that the analyst covered in this report: (1) all of the views expressed accurately reflect his or her personal views about
those securities or issuers and were prepared in an independent manner, including with respect to UBS, and (2) no part of his or her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to the specific recommendations or views expressed by that research

analyst in the research report.
UBS Global Research: Global Equity Rating Definitions
12-Month Rating Definition Coverage1 IB Services2
Buy FSR is > 6% above the MRA. 55% 24%
Neutral FSR is between -6% and 6% of the MRA. 40% 21%
Sell FSR is > 6% below the MRA. 6% 21%
Source: UBS. Rating allocations are as of 30 June 2026.
1:Percentage of companies under coverage globally within the 12-month rating category.
2:Percentage of companies within the 12-month rating category for which investment banking (IB) services were provided within the

past 12 months.
KEY DEFINITIONS:Forecast Stock Return (FSR) is defined as expected percentage price appreciation plus gross dividend yield over
the next 12 months. In some cases, this yield may be based on accrued dividends. Market Return Assumption (MRA) is defined as
the one-year local market interest rate plus 5% (a proxy for, and not a forecast of, the equity risk premium). Under Review (UR)
Stocks may be flagged as UR by the analyst, indicating that the stock's price target and/or rating are subject to possible change in the

near term, usually in response to an event that may affect the investment case or valuation. Equity Price Targets have an investment
horizon of 12 months.
EXCEPTIONS AND SPECIAL CASES:UK and European Investment Fund ratings and definitions are: Buy: Positive on factors
such as structure, management, performance record, discount; Neutral: Neutral on factors such as structure, management,
performance record, discount; Sell: Negative on factors such as structure, management, performance record, discount. Core

### Page 5

Company Name Reuters 12-month rating Price Price date
Voltronic Power 6409.TW Buy NT$874.00 14 Sep 2026
Source: UBS Global Research; LSEG Eikon. All prices as of local market close. Ratings in this table are the most current
published ratings prior to this report. They may be more recent than the stock pricing date.
Unless otherwise indicated, please refer to the Valuation and Risk sections within the body of this report. For a complete set of
disclosure statements associated with the companies discussed in this report, including information on valuation and risk, please

contact UBS Securities LLC, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, USA, Attention: Investment Research.
Voltronic Power (NT$)
Price Target (NT$) Stock Price (NT$)
0
600
1200
1800
2400
3000
Buy
No Rating
Date Stock Price (NT$) Price Target (NT$) Rating
2023-06-14 1965.00 1950.00 Buy
2023-10-12 1615.00 1800.00 Buy
2024-09-10 2005.00 - No Rating
2024-10-31 2130.00 2555.00 Buy
2024-11-07 2160.00 2480.00 Buy
2025-03-06 1720.00 2340.00 Buy
2025-05-13 1510.00 2063.00 Buy

2025-08-08 1180.00 1776.00 Buy
2026-02-03 919.00 1780.00 Buy
2026-03-09 824.00 1185.00 Buy
2026-06-13 930.00 1076.00 Buy
2026-08-15 1015.00 1128.00 Buy
Source: UBS Global Research; LSEG Eikon as of 14-Sep-2026. All prices as of local market close. Ratings as of date shown.

### Page 6

former Credit Suisse AG and its subsidiaries, branches and affiliates are referred to herein as "UBS".
Any opinions expressed in this document may change without notice and are only current as of the date of publication. Different areas, groups, and personnel
within UBS may produce and distribute separate research products independently of each other. For example, research publications from UBS CIO are produced
by UBS Global Wealth Management. UBS Global Research is produced by UBS Investment Bank. Research methodologies and rating systems of each separate

research organization may differ, for example, in terms of investment recommendations, investment horizon, model assumptions, and valuation methods. As a
consequence, except for certain economic forecasts (for which UBS CIO and UBS Global Research may collaborate), investment recommendations, ratings, price
targets, and valuations provided by each of the separate research organizations may be different, or inconsistent. You should refer to each relevant research

product for the details as to their methodologies and rating system. Not all clients may have access to all products from every organization. Each research product
is subject to the policies and procedures of the organization that produces it.
This document is provided solely to recipients who are expressly authorized by UBS to receive it. If you are not so authorized you must
immediately destroy the document.
UBS Global Research is provided to our clients through UBS Neo, and in certain instances, UBS.com and any other system or distribution method specifically

identified in one or more communications distributed through UBS Neo or UBS.com (each a system) as an approved means for distributing UBS Global Research.
It may also be made available through third party vendors and distributed by UBS and/or third parties via e-mail or alternative electronic means.
All UBS Global Research is available on UBS Neo. Please contact your UBS sales representative if you wish to discuss your access to UBS Neo. Where UBS Global

Research refers to "UBS Evidence Lab Inside" or has made use of data provided by UBS Evidence Lab and you would like to access that data please contact your
UBS sales representative. UBS Evidence Lab data is available on UBS Neo. The level and types of services provided by UBS Global Research and UBS Evidence Lab to
a client may vary depending upon various factors such as a client's individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communications, a client's

risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g., market wide, sector specific, long-term, short-term, etc.), the size and scope of the overall client
relationship with UBS Global Research and UBS Evidence Lab and legal and regulatory constraints. UBS HOLT and UBS Pharma Values are offerings of UBS Global
Research. HOLT Lens is a corporate performance platform offering that provides an objective accounting-led framework for comparing and valuing companies

and is available to clients of UBS Global Research; for further details and pricing please contact your UBS Sales representative. In particular, HOLT has a variety of
warranted prices based on the scenario chosen; please mail UBS Securities LLC, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, USA, Attention: Investment Research,
if you are interested in the warranted price on a particular company, again subject to commercial considerations. UBS Pharma Values is an analytical tool that

and to the UBS Neo Platform Use Agreement (the "Neo Terms") together with any other relevant terms of use governing the applicable System.
When you receive UBS Global Research via a third party vendor, e-mail or other electronic means, you agree that use shall be subject to this UBS Global Research
Disclaimer, the Neo Terms and where applicable the UBS Investment Bank terms of business (https://www.ubs.com/global/en/investment-bank/regulatory.html)

and using cookies in accordance with our Privacy Statement (https://www.ubs.com/global/en/legalinfo2/privacy.html) and cookie notice (https://www.ubs.com/
global/en/legal/privacy/users.html).
If you receive UBS Global Research, whether through a System or by any other means, you agree that you shall not copy, revise, amend, create a
derivative work, provide to any third party, or in any way commercially exploit any UBS research provided via UBS Global Research or otherwise,

not be treated as a “client” of UBS for any legal or regulatory purpose; (iii) the UBS Global Research must not be relied on or acted upon for any purpose; and (iv)
such content is subject to the relevant disclaimers that follow.
This document is for distribution only as may be permitted by law. It is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen
or resident of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or

regulation or would subject UBS to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction.
This document is a general communication and is educational in nature; it is not an advertisement nor is it a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any financial
instruments or to participate in any particular trading strategy. Nothing in this document constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or
recommendation is suitable or appropriate to an investor’s individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. By providing this

document, none of UBS or its representatives has any responsibility or authority to provide or have provided investment advice in a fiduciary capacity or otherwise.
Investments involve risks, and investors should exercise prudence and their own judgment in making their investment decisions. None of UBS or its representatives
is suggesting that the recipient or any other person take a specific course of action or any action at all. The recipient should carefully read this document in its

entirety and not draw inferences or conclusions from the rating alone. By receiving this document, the recipient acknowledges and agrees with the intended
purpose described above and further disclaims any expectation or belief that the information constitutes investment advice to the recipient or otherwise purports
to meet the investment objectives of the recipient. The financial instruments described in the document may not be eligible for sale in all jurisdictions or to certain

categories of investors.
Options, structured derivative products and futures (including OTC derivatives) are not suitable for all investors. Trading in these instruments is considered risky
and may be appropriate only for sophisticated investors. Prior to buying or selling an option, and for the complete risks relating to options, you must receive a
copy of "The Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options." You may read the document at https://www.theocc.com/publications/risks/riskchap1.jsp or ask

future results. Transaction costs may be significant in option strategies calling for multiple purchases and sales of options, such as spreads and straddles. Because
of the importance of tax considerations to many options transactions, the investor considering options should consult with his/her tax advisor as to how taxes
affect the outcome of contemplated options transactions.
Mortgage and asset-backed securities may involve a high degree of risk and may be highly volatile in response to fluctuations in interest rates or other market

conditions. Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect the value, price or income of any security or related instrument referred to in the document.
For investment advice, trade execution or other enquiries, clients should contact their local sales representative.
UBS notes that no globally accepted framework or definition (legal, regulatory or otherwise) currently exists, nor is there a market consensus as to what
constitutes an “ESG” (Environmental, Social or Governance) or an equivalent-label, or as to what precise attributes are required for the Information (as defined

below) to be defined as ESG or equivalently-labelled. Any information, data or other content including from a third party source contained, referred to herein or
used for whatsoever purpose by UBS or a third party (“Information”), in relation to any actual or potential ESG objective, issue or consideration is not intended to
be relied upon for ESG classification, regulatory regime or industry initiative purposes (“ESG Regimes”). Nothing in these materials is intended to convey, suggest

or indicate that UBS considers or represents any product, service, person or body mentioned in these materials as meeting or qualifying for any ESG classification,
labelling or similar standards that may exist under the ESG Regimes. UBS has not conducted any assessment of compliance with ESG Regimes. Parties are
reminded to make their own assessments for these purposes.
The value of any investment or income may go down as well as up, and investors may not get back the full (or any) amount invested. Past performance is not

necessarily a guide to future performance. Neither UBS nor any of its directors, employees or agents accepts any liability for any loss (including investment loss) or
damage arising out of the use of all or any of the Information.
Prior to making any investment or financial decisions, any recipient of this document or the information should take steps to understand the risk and return of the
investment and seek individualized advice from his or her personal financial, legal, tax and other professional advisors that takes into account all the particular

materials to which this document relates (the "Information"), except with respect to Information concerning UBS. The Information is not intended to be a

### Page 7

complete statement or summary of the securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. UBS does not undertake to update or keep current the
Information. Any statements contained in this report attributed to a third party represent UBS's interpretation of the data, information and/or opinions provided
by that third party either publicly or through a subscription service, and such use and interpretation have not been reviewed by the third party. In no circumstances

may this document or any of the Information (including any forecast, value, index or other calculated amount ("Values")) be used for any of the following
purposes:
(i) valuation or accounting purposes;
(ii) to determine the amounts due or payable, the price or the value of any financial instrument or financial contract; or
(iii) to measure the performance of any financial instrument including, without limitation, for the purpose of tracking the return or performance of any Value or of

defining the asset allocation of portfolio or of computing performance fees.
By receiving this document and the Information you will be deemed to represent and warrant to UBS that you will not use this document or any of the Information
for any of the above purposes or otherwise rely upon this document or any of the Information.
UBS has policies and procedures, which include, without limitation, independence policies and permanent information barriers, that are intended, and upon

which UBS relies, to manage potential conflicts of interest and control the flow of information within divisions of UBS and among its subsidiaries, branches and
affiliates. UBS does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may have a
conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should consider this report as only a single factor in making their investment decision.

UBS Global Research will initiate, update and cease coverage solely at the discretion of UBS Global Research Management, which will also have sole discretion on
the timing and frequency of any published research product. The analysis contained in this document is based on numerous assumptions. All material information
in relation to published research reports, such as valuation methodology, risk statements, underlying assumptions (including sensitivity analysis of those

assumptions), ratings history etc. as required by the Market Abuse Regulation, can be found on UBS Neo. Different assumptions could result in materially different
results.
UBS Global Research may utilise artificial intelligence tools (“AI Tools”) in the preparation of this document. Notwithstanding any such use of AI Tools, this
document has undergone human review.
The analyst(s) responsible for the preparation of this document may interact with trading desk personnel, sales personnel and other parties for the purpose of

gathering, applying and interpreting market information. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow of information contained in one or more areas
within UBS into other areas, units, groups or affiliates of UBS. The compensation of the analyst who prepared this document is determined exclusively by UBS
Global Research management and senior management (not including investment banking). Analyst compensation is not based on investment banking revenues;

however, compensation may relate to the revenues of UBS and/or its divisions as a whole, of which investment banking, sales and trading are a part, and UBS as
a whole.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on an EU regulated market: UBS (excluding UBS Securities LLC) acts as a market maker or liquidity provider (in
accordance with the interpretation of these terms under English law or, if not carried out by UBS in the UK the law of the relevant jurisdiction in which UBS

determines it carries out the activity) in the financial instruments of the issuer save that where the activity of liquidity provider is carried out in accordance with the
definition given to it by the laws and regulations of any other EU jurisdictions, such information is separately disclosed in this document. For financial instruments
admitted to trading on a non-EU regulated market: UBS may act as a market maker save that where this activity is carried out in the US in accordance with the

definition given to it by the relevant laws and regulations, such activity will be specifically disclosed in this document. UBS may have issued a warrant the value of
which is based on one or more of the financial instruments referred to in the document. UBS and its affiliates and employees may have long or short positions,
trade as principal and buy and sell in instruments or derivatives identified herein; such transactions or positions may be inconsistent with the opinions expressed in

this document.
Within the past 12 months UBS may have received or provided investment services and activities or ancillary services as per MiFID II which may have given rise to
a payment or promise of a payment in relation to these services from or to this company.
Please note that all transactions conducted by UBS are consistent with sanctions regulations imposed by Switzerland, the European Union, the United Nations, the
United Kingdom and the United States, per UBS' global sanctions policy. UBS opinion as to future investment worthiness assumes no new sanctions are imposed.

US persons are prohibited from purchasing or selling securities of certain companies designated as being associated with the Chinese Military in accordance with
the amended US Presidential Executive Order 13959.
United Kingdom: This material is distributed by UBS AG, London Branch to persons who are eligible counterparties or professional clients. UBS AG, London
Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential

Regulation Authority. Europe: Except as otherwise specified herein, these materials are distributed by UBS Europe SE, a subsidiary of UBS AG, to persons who are
eligible counterparties or professional clients (as detailed in the Bundesanstalt fur Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) Rules and according to MIFID) and are only
available to such persons. The information does not apply to, and should not be relied upon by, retail clients. UBS Europe SE is authorised by the European Central

contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE. In all cases it is distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS AG,
London Branch. Turkey: Distributed by UBS AG, London Branch. No information in this document is provided for the purpose of offering, marketing and sale by
any means of any capital market instruments and services in the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, this document may not be considered as an offer made or to be

made to residents of the Republic of Turkey. UBS AG, London Branch is not licensed by the Turkish Capital Market Board under the provisions of the Capital
Market Law (Law No. 6362). Accordingly, neither this document nor any other offering material related to the instruments/services may be utilized in connection
with providing any capital market services to persons within the Republic of Turkey without the prior approval of the Capital Market Board. However, according to

article 15 (d) (ii) of the Decree No. 32, there is no restriction on the purchase or sale of the securities abroad by residents of the Republic of Turkey. Poland:
Distributed by UBS Europe SE (spolka z ograniczona odpowiedzialnoscia) Oddzial w Polsce. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE (spolka z ograniczona
odpowiedzialnoscia) Oddzial w Polsce has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE (spolka z

Recommendation for the purpose of the Russian Law - Federal Law #39-FZ ON THE SECURITIES MARKET Articles 6.1-6.2.Switzerland: Distributed by UBS AG to
persons who are institutional investors only. UBS AG is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA). Italy: Prepared by UBS Europe SE
and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch has contributed to this document, the

document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch. France: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS
Europe SE, France Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, France Branch has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been
prepared by UBS Europe SE, France Branch.  Spain: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch. Where an

analyst of UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch.
Sweden: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch
has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch. South Africa: Distributed by UBS

South Africa (Pty) Limited (Registration No. 1995/011140/07), an authorised user of the JSE and an authorised Financial Services Provider (FSP 7328). Saudi
Arabia: This document has been issued by UBS AG (and/or any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates), a public company limited by shares, incorporated in
Switzerland with its registered offices at Aeschenvorstadt 1, CH-4051 Basel and Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH-8001 Zurich. This publication has been approved by UBS

Saudi Arabia (a subsidiary of UBS AG), a Saudi closed joint stock company incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia under commercial register number
1010257812 having its registered office at Tatweer Towers, P.O. Box 75724, Riyadh 11588, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. UBS Saudi Arabia is authorized and
regulated by the Capital Market Authority to conduct securities business under license number 08113-37. UAE / Dubai: The information distributed by UBS AG

Dubai Branch is only intended for Professional Clients and/or Market Counterparties, as classified under the DFSA rulebook. No other person should act upon this
material/communication. The information is not for further distribution within the United Arab Emirates. UBS AG Dubai Branch is regulated by the DFSA in the
DIFC. UBS is not licensed to provide banking services in the UAE by the Central Bank of the UAE, nor is it licensed by the UAE Securities and Commodities

Authority.  Israel: This Material is distributed by UBS AG, London Branch. UBS Securities Israel Ltd is a licensed Investment Marketer that is supervised by the Israel
Securities Authority (ISA). UBS AG, London Branch and its affiliates incorporated outside Israel are not licensed under the Israeli Advisory Law. UBS may engage
among others in issuance of Financial Assets or in distribution of Financial Assets of other issuers for fees or other benefits. UBS AG, London Branch and its

affiliates may prefer various Financial Assets to which they have or may have an Affiliation (as such term is defined under the Israeli Advisory Law). Nothing in this
Material should be considered as investment advice under the Israeli Advisory Law. This Material is being issued only to and/or is directed only at persons who are
Eligible Clients within the meaning of the Israeli Advisory Law, and this Material must not be furnished to, relied on or acted upon by any other persons. United

States: Distributed to US persons by either UBS Securities LLC or by UBS Financial Services Inc., subsidiaries of UBS AG; or by a group, subsidiary or affiliate of UBS
AG that is not registered as a US broker-dealer (a ‘non-US affiliate’) to major US institutional investors only. UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial Services Inc.
accepts responsibility for the content of a report prepared by another non-US affiliate when distributed to US persons by UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial

Services Inc. All transactions by a US person in the securities mentioned in this report must be effected through UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial Services Inc.,
and not through a non-US affiliate. UBS Securities LLC is not acting as a municipal advisor to any municipal entity or obligated person within the meaning of
Section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Municipal Advisor Rule"), and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not

constitute, advice within the meaning of the Municipal Advisor Rule. Canada: Distributed by UBS Securities Canada Inc., a registered investment dealer in Canada

### Page 8

and a Member-Canadian Investor Protection Fund, or by another affiliate of UBS AG that is registered to conduct business in Canada or is otherwise exempt from
registration. Brazil: Except as otherwise specified herein, this Material is prepared by UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. (UBS BB
CCTVM) to persons who are eligible investors residing in Brazil, which are considered to be Professional Investors (Investidores Profissionais), as designated by the

applicable regulation, mainly the CVM Resolution No. 30 from the 11th of May 2021 (determines the duty to verify the suitability of products, services and
transactions with regards to the client´s profile). UBS BB CCTVM is a subsidiary of UBS BB Servicos de Assessoria Financeira e Participacoes S.A. (“UBS BB”). UBS BB
is an association between UBS AG and Banco do Brasil (through its subsidiary BB – Banco de Investimentos S.A.), of which UBS AG is the majority owner and

de Valores Mobiliarios (CVM) and by the Central Bank of Brazil. Ombudsman: 0800-940-0266/ https://www.ubs.com/br/pt/ubsbb-investment-bank/
ombudsman.html. UBS may hold relevant financial and commercial interest in relation to the company subject to this Research report. Hong Kong: Distributed
by UBS Securities Asia Limited. Please contact local licensed persons of UBS Securities Asia Limited in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with,

the analysis or document Singapore: Distributed by UBS Securities Pte. Ltd. [Co. Reg. No.: 198500648C] or UBS AG, Singapore Branch. Please contact UBS
Securities Pte. Ltd., an exempt financial adviser under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110); or UBS AG, Singapore Branch, an exempt financial adviser
under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110) and a wholesale bank licensed under the Singapore Banking Act (Cap. 19) regulated by the Monetary

Ltd. is the author, publisher and distributor of the report. Distributed by UBS AG, Tokyo Branch to Professional Investors (except as otherwise permitted) in relation
to foreign exchange and other banking businesses when relevant. Australia: Recipients through a superannuation fund: Distributed by UBS AG, Australia Branch
(ABN 47 088 129 613 and holder of Australian Financial Service Licence No. 231087). For all other recipients: Distributed by UBS Securities Australia Limited (ABN

62 008 586 481 and holder of Australian Financial Services Licence No. 231098). This document contains general information and/or general advice only and
does not constitute personal financial product advice. As such, the Information in this document has been prepared without taking into account any investor’s
objectives, financial situation or needs, and investors should, before acting on the Information, consider the appropriateness of the Information, having regard to

New Zealand: Distributed by UBS New Zealand Ltd. UBS New Zealand Ltd is not a registered bank in New Zealand. You are being provided with this publication
or material because you have indicated to UBS that you are a “wholesale client” within the meaning of clause 4 of schedule 5 of the Financial Markets Conduct
Act 2013 of New Zealand (Permitted Client). This publication or material is not intended for clients who are not Permitted Clients (non-permitted Clients). If you

are a non-permitted Client you must not rely on this publication or material. If despite this warning you nevertheless rely on this publication or material, you
hereby (i) acknowledge that you may not rely on the content of this publication or material and that any recommendations or opinions in such this publication or
material are not made or provided to you, and (ii) to the maximum extent permitted by law (a) indemnify UBS and its associates or related entities (and their

respective Directors, officers, agents and Advisors) (each a ‘Relevant Person’) for any loss, damage, liability or claim any of them may incur or suffer as a result of,
or in connection with, your unauthorised reliance on this publication or material and (b) waive any rights or remedies you may have against any Relevant Person
for (or in respect of) any loss, damage, liability or claim you may incur or suffer as a result of, or in connection with, your unauthorised reliance on this publication

or material. Korea: Distributed in Korea by UBS Securities Pte. Ltd., Seoul Branch. This report may have been edited or contributed to from time to time by
affiliates of UBS Securities Pte. Ltd., Seoul Branch. This material is intended for professional/institutional clients only and not for distribution to any retail clients.
Malaysia: This material is authorized to be distributed in Malaysia by UBS Securities Malaysia Sdn. Bhd (Capital Markets Services License No.: CMSL/

A0063/2007). This material is intended for professional/institutional clients only and not for distribution to any retail clients. India: Distributed by UBS Securities
India Private Ltd. (Corporate Identity Number U67120MH1996PTC097299) Unit 2901, Level 29 Altimus, Pandurang Budhkar Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018. It
provides brokerage services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INZ000259830; Merchant Banking services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INM000013101;

and Research Analyst services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INH000001204. Name of Compliance Officer Mr. Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone :
+912261556151, Email : parameshwaran.s@ubs.com, Name of Grievance Officer Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone : +912261556151, Email: ol-ubs-
sec-compliance@ubs.com Registration granted by SEBI, and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or provide any
assurance of returns to investors. UBS may have debt holdings or positions in the subject Indian company/companies. UBS may have financial interests (e.g. loan/

derivative products, rights to or interests in investments, etc.) in the subject Indian company / companies from time to time. Within the past 12 months, UBS may
have received compensation for non-investment banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services from the subject Indian company/companies.
The subject company/companies may have been a client/clients of UBS during the 12 months preceding the date of distribution of the research report with

respect to investment banking and/or non-investment banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services. With regard to information on associates,
please refer to the Annual Report at: https://www.ubs.com/global/en/about_ubs/investor_relations/annualreporting.html The Research Annual Compliance
Report for UBS Securities India Private Limited is available on www.ubs.com/ubssi under Research tab. Taiwan: Except as otherwise specified herein, this material

distributed by UBS Securities Pte. LTD., Taipei Branch to professional institutional investors and/or persons permitted under applicable regulation. Unless permitted
by applicable Taiwan laws and regulations, this material is for reference and information only and should not constitute "recommendation" to clients or recipients
in Taiwan for the covered companies or any companies mentioned in this document. No portion of the document may be reprinted, reproduced or quoted by the

press or any other person without authorisation from UBS. Indonesia: This report is being distributed by PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia and is delivered by its
licensed employee(s), including marketing/sales person, to its client. PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia, having its registered office at Sequis Tower Level 22 unit 22-
1,Jl.Jend. Sudirman, kav.71, SCBD lot 11B, Jakarta 12190. Indonesia, is a subsidiary company of UBS AG and licensed under Capital Market Law no. 8 year 1995,

a holder of broker-dealer and underwriter licenses issued by the Capital Market and Financial Institution Supervisory Agency (now Otoritas Jasa Keuangan/OJK).
PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia is also a member of Indonesia Stock Exchange and supervised by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK). Neither this report nor any copy hereof
may be distributed in Indonesia or to any Indonesian citizens except in compliance with applicable Indonesian capital market laws and regulations. This report is

English law.
UBS specifically prohibits the redistribution of this document in whole or in part without the written permission of UBS and in any event UBS accepts no liability
whatsoever for any redistribution of this document or its contents or the actions of third parties in this respect. Images may depict objects or elements that are
protected by third party copyright, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. © UBS 2026. The key symbol and UBS are among the registered and

FINMA in Switzerland) or its affiliates ("UBS") with whom you have a banking relationship with. The full name of the distributing affiliate and its competent authority can be
found in the country-specific disclaimer at the end of this document. UBS may utilise artificial intelligence tools (“AI Tools”) in the preparation of this document.
Notwithstanding any such use of AI Tools, this document has undergone human review.
The date and time of the first dissemination of this publication is the same as the date and time of its publication.

Risk information:
You agree that you shall not copy, revise, amend, create a derivative work, provide to any third party, or in any way commercially exploit any UBS research, and that you shall
not extract data from any research or estimates, without the prior written consent of UBS.
This document is for distribution only as may be permitted by law. It is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident

of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or would subject
UBS to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction.
This document is for your information only; it is not an advertisement nor is it a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any financial instruments or to participate in any
particular trading strategy. Nothing in this document constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or recommendation is suitable or appropriate to an investor’s

individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. By providing this document, none of UBS or its representatives has any responsibility or
authority to provide or have provided investment advice in a fiduciary capacity or otherwise. Investments involve risks, and investors should exercise prudence and their own
judgment in making their investment decisions. None of UBS or its representatives is suggesting that the recipient or any other person take a specific course of action or any

action at all. By receiving this document, the recipient acknowledges and agrees with the intended purpose described above and further disclaims any expectation or belief
that the information constitutes investment advice to the recipient or otherwise purports to meet the investment objectives of the recipient. The financial instruments
described in the document may not be eligible for sale in all jurisdictions or to certain categories of investors.

Options, derivative products and futures are not suitable for all investors, and trading in these instruments is considered risky. Mortgage and asset-backed securities may
involve a high degree of risk and may be highly volatile in response to fluctuations in interest rates or other market conditions. Foreign currency rates of exchange may

### Page 9

guide to future performance. Neither UBS nor any of its directors, employees or agents accepts any liability for any loss (including investment loss) or damage arising out of
the use of all or any of the information (as defined below).
Prior to making any investment or financial decisions, any recipient of this document or the information should take steps to understand the risk and return of the investment
and seek individualized advice from his or her personal financial, legal, tax and other professional advisors that takes into account all the particular facts and circumstances of

which this document relates (the "Information"), except with respect to Information concerning UBS. The Information is not intended to be a complete statement or
summary of the securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. UBS does not undertake to update or keep current the Information. Any opinions expressed
in this document may change without notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by other business areas or groups, personnel or other representative of UBS.

Any statements contained in this report attributed to a third party represent UBS's interpretation of the data, information and/or opinions provided by that third party either
publicly or through a subscription service, and such use and interpretation have not been reviewed by the third party. In no circumstances may this document or any of the
Information (including any forecast, value, index or other calculated amount ("Values")) be used for any of the following purposes: (i) valuation or accounting purposes; (ii) to

determine the amounts due or payable, the price or the value of any financial instrument or financial contract; or (iii) to measure the performance of any financial instrument
including, without limitation, for the purpose of tracking the return or performance of any Value or of defining the asset allocation of portfolio or of computing performance
fees.
By receiving this document and the Information you will be deemed to represent and warrant to UBS that you will not use this document or any of the Information for any of

the above purposes or otherwise rely upon this document or any of the Information.
UBS has policies and procedures, which include, without limitation, independence policies and permanent information barriers, that are intended, and upon which UBS
relies, to manage potential conflicts of interest and control the flow of information within divisions of UBS (including between Global Wealth Management and UBS Global
Research) and among its subsidiaries, branches and affiliates. For further information on the ways in which UBS manages conflicts and maintains independence of its research

methodology.
Research will initiate, update and cease coverage solely at the discretion of research management, which will also have sole discretion on the timing and frequency of any
published research product. The analysis contained in this document is based on numerous assumptions. Different assumptions could result in materially different results.
The analyst(s) responsible for the preparation of this document may interact with trading desk personnel, sales personnel and other parties for the purpose of gathering,

applying and interpreting market information. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow of information contained in one or more areas within UBS into other
areas, units, groups or affiliates of UBS. The compensation of the analyst who prepared this document is determined exclusively by research management and senior
management (not including investment banking). Analyst compensation is not based on investment banking revenues; however, compensation may relate to the revenues of

UBS and/or its divisions as a whole, of which investment banking, sales and trading are a part, and UBS's subsidiaries, branches and affiliates as a whole.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on an EU regulated market: UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries (excluding UBS Securities LLC) acts as a market maker or
liquidity provider (in accordance with the interpretation of these terms in the UK) in the financial instruments of the issuer save that where the activity of liquidity provider is

carried out in accordance with the definition given to it by the laws and regulations of any other EU jurisdictions, such information is separately disclosed in this document.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on a non-EU regulated market: UBS may act as a market maker save that where this activity is carried out in the US in accordance
with the definition given to it by the relevant laws and regulations, such activity will be specifically disclosed in this document. UBS may have issued a warrant the value of

which is based on one or more of the financial instruments referred to in the document. UBS and its affiliates and employees may have long or short positions, trade as
principal and buy and sell in instruments or derivatives identified herein; such transactions or positions may be inconsistent with the opinions expressed in this document.
Options and futures are not suitable for all investors, and trading in these instruments is considered risky and may be appropriate only for sophisticated investors. Prior to

buying or selling an option, and for the complete risks relating to options, you must receive a copy of "Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options". You may read the
document at  https://www.theocc.com/about/publications/character-risks.jsp  or ask your financial advisor for a copy.
Investing in structured investments involves significant risks. For a detailed discussion of the risks involved in investing in any particular structured investment, you must read

the relevant offering materials for that investment. Structured investments are unsecured obligations of a particular issuer with returns linked to the performance of an
underlying asset. Depending on the terms of the investment, investors could lose all or a substantial portion of their investment based on the performance of the underlying
asset. Investors could also lose their entire investment if the issuer becomes insolvent. UBS does not guarantee in any way the obligations or the financial condition of any

issuer or the accuracy of any financial information provided by any issuer. Structured investments are not traditional investments and investing in a structured investment is
not equivalent to investing directly in the underlying asset. Structured investments may have limited or no liquidity, and investors should be prepared to hold their investment
to maturity. The return of structured investments may be limited by a maximum gain, participation rate or other feature. Structured investments may include call features and,

if a structured investment is called early, investors would not earn any further return and may not be able to reinvest in similar investments with similar terms. Structured
investments include costs and fees which are generally embedded in the price of the investment. The tax treatment of a structured investment may be complex and may differ
from a direct investment in the underlying asset. UBS and its employees do not provide tax advice. Investors should consult their own tax advisor about their own tax situation

before investing in any securities.
Important Information About Sustainable Investing Strategies: Sustainable investing strategies aim to consider and incorporate environmental, social and governance
(ESG) factors into investment process and portfolio construction. Strategies across geographies approach ESG analysis and incorporate the findings in a variety of ways.
Incorporating ESG factors or sustainable investing considerations may inhibit the portfolio manager’s ability to participate in certain investment opportunities that otherwise

would be consistent with its investment objective and other principal investment strategies. The returns on a portfolio incorporating ESG factors or sustainable investing
considerations may be lower or higher than portfolios where ESG factors, exclusions, or other sustainability issues are not considered by the portfolio manager, and the
investment opportunities available to such portfolios may differ.
Within the past 12 months UBS Switzerland AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have received or provided investment services and activities or ancillary services as per MiFID

External Asset Managers / External Financial Consultants : In case this research or publication is provided to an External Asset Manager or an External Financial
Consultant, UBS expressly prohibits that it is redistributed by the External Asset Manager or the External Financial Consultant and is made available to their clients and/or third
parties.
Argentina: All securities that will be offered to you by UBS are not authorized by the Argentine Securities and Exchange Commission (CNV) and are not subject to its

reporting, periodic information requirements, or oversight. Furthermore, the CNV has not reviewed or endorsed the information provided in any securities offering
document, nor the accuracy of any accounting, financial, economic data, or any other information disclosed therein, which remains the sole responsibility of the respective
issuer and the other parties involved. Australia: This document is provided by UBS Switzerland AG. UBS Switzerland AG does not hold an Australian Financial Services

Licence (AFSL) and relies on an exemption to provide financial services to persons in Australia. This document is intended only for distribution to wholesale clients under the
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). UBS Switzerland AG is a related body corporate of UBS AG, Australia Branch and UBS Securities Australia Limited. This document may be
distributed to clients by those entities, but it is provided by UBS Switzerland AG and is not provided under any of the other entities’ AFSL. The information in this document

is general in nature and is not intended to address the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular individual or entity. Each recipient should consider their own
objectives, financial situation or needs before acting on the advice and obtain the relevant Product Disclosure Statement (if required) before making any decision whether to
acquire any product. In Australia, UBS entities, other than UBS AG, Australia Branch, are not authorized deposit-taking institutions for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959

(Cth.) and their obligations do not represent deposits or other liabilities of UBS AG, Australia Branch. UBS AG, Australia Branch does not guarantee or otherwise provide
assurance in respect of the obligations of such UBS entities or the funds. An investor is exposed to investment risk including possible delays in repayment and loss of income
and principal invested, as relevant. If you do not wish to receive marketing materials from UBS, please contact your UBS representative or the contact details listed in the

### Page 10

a Foreign Branch of UBS AG, Zurich/Switzerland and is located on Level 21, East Tower, Bahrain World Trade Centre, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain. Brazil: This report is
distributed in Brazil by UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. or its affiliates (“UBS”). Pursuant to CVM Resolution No. 20/2021, of February 25,
2021, the author(s) of the report hereby certify(ies) that the views expressed in this report solely and exclusively reflect their personal opinions and have been prepared

independently, including with respect to UBS. Part of the author(s)´s compensation is based on various factors, including the total revenues of the relevant UBS Group entity
of which they are in employment of, but no part of the compensation has been, is, or will be related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report. In
addition, UBS declares that: UBS has provided, and/or may in the future provide investment banking, brokerage, asset management, commercial banking and other financial

services to the subject company/companies or its affiliates, for which they have received or may receive customary fees and commissions, and which constituted or may
constitute relevant financial or commercial interests in relation to the subject company/companies or the subject securities. Canada: The information contained herein is not,
and under no circumstances is to be construed as, a prospectus, an advertisement, a public offering, an offer to sell securities described herein, solicitation of an offer to buy

securities described herein, in Canada or any province or territory thereof. Any offer or sale of the securities described herein in Canada will be made only under an exemption
from the requirements to file a prospectus with the relevant Canadian securities regulators and only by a dealer properly registered under applicable securities laws or,
alternatively, pursuant to an exemption from the dealer registration requirement in the relevant province or territory of Canada in which such offer or sale is made. Under no

circumstances is the information contained herein to be construed as investment advice in any province or territory of Canada and is not tailored to the needs of the recipient.
To the extent that the information contained herein references securities of an issuer incorporated, formed or created under the laws of Canada or a province or territory of
Canada, any trades in such securities must be conducted through a dealer registered in Canada or, alternatively, pursuant to a dealer registration exemption. No securities

commission or similar regulatory authority in Canada has reviewed or in any way passed upon these materials, the information contained herein or the merits of the securities
described herein and any representation to the contrary is an offence. In Canada, this publication is distributed by UBS Investment Management Canada Inc. China: This
report and any offering material such as term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this report

was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the material erroneously,
UBS asks that you kindly delete it and inform UBS immediately. This report is prepared by UBS Switzerland AG or its offshore subsidiary or affiliate (collectively as "UBS
Offshore"). UBS Offshore is an entity incorporated out of China and is not licensed, supervised or regulated in China to carry out banking or securities business. The recipient

should not contact the analysts or UBS Offshore which produced this report for advice as they are not licensed to provide securities investment advice in China. UBS
Investment Bank (including Research) has its own wholly independent research and views which at times may vary from the views of UBS Global Wealth Management. The
recipient should not use this document or otherwise rely on any of the information contained in this report in making investment decisions and UBS takes no responsibility in

this regard. Denmark: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Danish law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe
SE, Denmark Branch, filial af UBS Europe SE, with place of business at Sankt Annae Plads 13, 1250 Copenhagen, Denmark, registered with the Danish Commerce and
Companies Agency, under No. 38 17 24 33. UBS Europe SE, Denmark Branch, filial af UBS Europe SE is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the

German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin"), as
well as of the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finanstilsynet), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution
constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Egypt: Securities or other investment products are not being offered or sold by

UBS to the public in Egypt and they have not been and will not be registered with the Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority (FRA). France: This publication is not intended
to constitute a public offer under French law, it does not constitute a personal recommendation as it is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE
Succursale de France (a branch of UBS Europe SE), having its registered office at 39, rue du Colisée, 75008 Paris, France, registered with the “Registre du Commerce et des

Sociétés” of Paris under N°844 425 629. UBS Europe SE Succursale de France is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the German Central Bank
(Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin"), as well as of the French
"Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution" and "Autorité des marchés financiers", to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a

credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Germany: This publication is not intended to constitute a
public offer under German law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Germany, with place of business at Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4,
60306 Frankfurt am Main. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by the German Federal

Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin") and supervised jointly by the European Central Bank, the German Central
Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and BaFin, to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. Hong Kong SAR: This publication is distributed to clients of UBS AG
Hong Kong Branch by UBS AG Hong Kong Branch, a licensed bank under the Hong Kong Banking Ordinance and a registered institution under the Securities and Futures

Ordinance. UBS AG Hong Kong Branch is incorporated in Switzerland with limited liability. The contents of this material have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority
in Hong Kong. India: UBS Securities India Private Ltd. (Corporate Identity Number U67120MH1996PTC097299) 2/F, 3 North Avenue, Maker Maxity, Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai (India) 400051. Phone: +912261556000. It provides brokerage services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INZ000259830; Merchant Banking

services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INM000013101 and Research Analyst services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INH000001204. Name of Compliance Officer
Mr. Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone: +912261556151, Email: parameshwaran.s@ubs.com, Name of Grievance Officer Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan,
Phone: +912261556151, Email: ol-ubs-sec-compliance@ubs.com. Registration granted by SEBI, and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the

intermediary or provide any assurance of returns to investors. UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have debt holdings or positions in the subject Indian company/
companies. UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have financial interests (e.g. loan/derivative products, rights to or interests in investments, etc.) in the subject Indian
company/companies from time to time. Within the past 12 months, UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have received compensation for non-investment banking

securities-related services and/or non-securities services from the subject Indian company/companies. The subject company/companies may have been a client/clients of UBS
AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries during the 12 months preceding the date of distribution of the research report with respect to investment banking and/or non-investment
banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services. With regard to information on associates, please refer to the Annual Report at: https://www.ubs.com/

global/en/about_ubs/investor_relations/annualreporting.html. The Research Annual Compliance report for UBS Securities India Private Limited is available on www.ubs.com/
ubssi under Research tab. Indonesia: This communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other
information (the "Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your

behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The
Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed without the consent of UBS. None of the Material has been registered
or filed under the prevailing laws and with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. The Material may not have been approved, disapproved, endorsed,

registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or
to purchase any investment (including securities or products or futures contracts). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract
(including futures contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as

set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you
understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are
advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been

provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Israel: UBS is a premier
global financial firm offering wealth management, asset management and investment banking services from its headquarters in Switzerland and its operations in over 50
countries worldwide to individual, corporate and institutional investors. This publication is intended for information only and is not intended as an offer to buy or solicitation

of an offer. Furthermore, this publication is not intended as an investment advice. Nothing contrary to the above, no action has been, or will be, taken in Israel that would
permit an offering of the product(s) mentioned in this document or a distribution of this document to the public in Israel. In particular, this document has not been reviewed
or approved by the Israeli Securities Authority. The product(s) mentioned in this document is/are being offered to a limited number of sophisticated investors who qualify as

furnished to any other person other than those to whom copies have been sent. Anyone who purchases the product(s) mentioned herein shall do so for its own benefit and
for its own account and not with the aim or intention of distributing or offering the product(s) to other parties. Anyone who purchases the product(s) shall do so in
accordance with its own understanding and discretion and after it has received any relevant financial, legal, business, tax or other advice or opinion required by it in

being researched, as well as the fact that remuneration paid to the financial analysts is based generally upon the performance of (i) the new issues department or investment
banking; or (ii) securities trading performance (including proprietary trading) or sales. Italy: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Italian law. It is
distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Succursale Italia, with place of business at Via del Vecchio Politecnico, 3-20121 Milano. UBS Europe SE,

Succursale Italia is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services
Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, “BaFin”), as well as of the Bank of Italy (Banca d’Italia) and the Italian Financial Markets Supervisory
Authority (CONSOB - Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution

constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Japan: This report is solely distributed in Japan by UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth
Management Co., Ltd, Financial Instruments Dealer, Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 3233, a member of the Japan Securities Dealers
Association, Financial Futures Association of Japan, Investment Management Association of Japan. UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Management Co., Ltd will not distribute or

### Page 11

forward this report outside Japan. Jersey: UBS AG, Jersey Branch, is regulated and authorized by the Jersey Financial Services Commission for the conduct of banking, funds
and investment business. Where services are provided from outside Jersey, they will not be covered by the Jersey regulatory regime. UBS AG, Jersey Branch is a branch of UBS
AG a public company limited by shares, incorporated in Switzerland whose registered offices are at Aeschenvorstadt 1, CH-4051 Basel and Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH 8001

Zurich. UBS AG, Jersey Branch's principal place of business is 1, IFC Jersey, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3BX. Luxembourg: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer
under Luxembourg law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Luxembourg Branch ("UBS Luxembourg"), R.C.S. Luxembourg n°
B209123, with registered office at 33A, Avenue J. F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a

Societas Europaea (HRB n° 107046), with registered office at Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4, D-60306 Frankfurt am Main, Germany, duly authorized by the German Federal
Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin") and subject to the joint prudential supervision of BaFin, the European
Central Bank and the central bank of Germany (Deutsche Bundesbank). UBS Luxembourg is furthermore supervised by the Luxembourg prudential supervisory authority

(Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier), in its role as host member state authority. This publication has not been submitted for approval to any public supervisory
authority. Malaysia: This communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the
"Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should

you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where
provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material
may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the

Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor
a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant
investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such

restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk
appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided
on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case

may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Mexico: This information is distributed by UBS Asesores México, S.A. de C.V. ("UBS Asesores"), an affiliate of UBS
Switzerland AG, incorporated as a non-independent investment advisor under the Mexican regulation due to the relation with a Foreign Bank. UBS Asesores is registered
under number 30060-001-(14115)-21/06/2016 and subject to the supervision of the Mexican Banking and Securities Commission ("CNBV") exclusively regarding the

rendering of (i) portfolio management services, (ii) securities investment advisory services, analysis and issuance of individual investment recommendations, and (iii) anti-
money laundering and terrorism financing matters. This UBS publication or any material related thereto is addressed only to Sophisticated or Institutional Investors located in
Mexico. Research reports only reflect the views of the analysts responsible for the report. The compensation of the analyst(s) who prepared this report is determined

exclusively by research management and senior management of any entity of UBS Group to which such analyst(s) render(s) services. Monaco: This document is not intended
to constitute a public offering or a comparable solicitation under the Principality of Monaco laws, but might be made available for information purposes to clients of UBS
(Monaco) S.A., a regulated bank having its registered office at 2 avenue de Grande Bretagne 98000 Monaco operating under a banking license granted by the “Autorité de

Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution” (ACPR) and the Monegasque government which authorizes the provision of banking services in Monaco. UBS (Monaco) S.A. is also
licensed by the “Commission de Contrôle des Activités Financières” (CCAF) to provide investment services in Monaco. The latter has not approved this publication.
Philippines:  This communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have

received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was
provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have
been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material,

made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor a
solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant
investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such

restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk
appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided
on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case

may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Portugal: UBS Switzerland AG is not licensed to conduct banking and financial activities in Portugal nor is UBS
Switzerland AG supervised by the portuguese regulators (Bank of Portugal "Banco de Portugal" and Portuguese Securities Exchange Commission "Comissão do Mercado de
Valores Mobiliários"). Qatar: UBS Qatar LLC is licensed by the Qatar Financial Centre Authority and authorized by the QFC Regulatory Authority, with QFC no. 01169, and

an invitation to make offers, to sell, exchange or otherwise transfer any financial instruments in the Russian Federation to or for the benefit of any Russian person or entity
and does not constitute an advertisement or offering of securities in the Russian Federation within the meaning of Russian securities laws. The information contained herein
is not an “individual investment recommendation” as defined in Federal Law of 22 April 1996 No 39-FZ "On Securities Market" (as amended) and the financial instruments

and operations specified herein may not be suitable for your investment profile or your investment goals or expectations. The determination of whether or not such financial
instruments and operations are in your interests or are suitable for your investment goals, investment horizon or the acceptable risk level is your responsibility. We assume no
liability for any losses connected with making any such operations or investing into any such financial instruments and we do not recommend to use such information as the

only source of information for making an investment decision. Saudi Arabia: This material is for marketing and information purposes by UBS Saudi Arabia only. It has been
distributed by UBS Saudi Arabia or reviewed and approved by UBS Saudi Arabia if it was issued by UBS Switzerland AG, by UBS AG, or any of its subsidiaries or branches. UBS
Switzerland AG is a public company limited by shares, incorporated in Switzerland with its registered offices at Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH-8001 Zurich. UBS Saudi Arabia (a

subsidiary of UBS AG) is a Saudi closed joint stock company incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with a paid capital of 110,000,000 Saudi Riyals under commercial
register number 1010257812 having its registered office at Laysen Valley, P.O. Box 75724, Riyadh 11588, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. UBS Saudi Arabia is authorized and
regulated by the Capital Market Authority to conduct securities business under license number 08113-37. This document is distributed only under such circumstances as may

be permitted by applicable laws and regulations. The information and – if any - opinions contained in this document have been compiled or arrived at based upon
information obtained from sources believed to be reliable and in good faith, but is not guaranteed as being accurate, nor is it a complete statement or summary of the
securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. All such information and opinions are subject to changes without notice. Past performance of investments

(whether simulated or actual) is not necessarily an indicator of future results. Forward looking data is based on estimates that are subject to changes. Should the currency of
a financial product or service not match your reference currency, performance may rise or fall due to currency fluctuations. UBS Switzerland AG and / or other members of the
UBS Group may have a position in and may make a purchase and/or sale of any of the securities or other financial instruments mentioned in this document While statements

that constitute “forward-looking statements”, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our future business development represent UBS judgments and future
expectations concerning the development of our business, a number of risks, uncertainties and other important factors could cause actual developments and results to differ
materially from our expectations. This document may not be forwarded, reproduced, redistributed or republished for any purpose without the written permission of UBS

institutional investor, accredited investor, or expert investor, UBS AG is exempted from complying with certain requirements under the Financial Advisers Act 2001 (the
“FAA”), the FAR and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory service which UBS AG may provide to you. These include
exemptions from complying with: Section 34 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 33(1) of the FAR); Section 36 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the FAR); and

Section 45 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 35(1) of the FAR). Singapore recipients and clients of UBS AG, Singapore Branch should contact UBS AG, Singapore Branch for
any matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Where applicable, this communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or
service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons

entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and
inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your
jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved or endorsed by any financial or regulatory authority in your

jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or products or
futures contracts). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any
securities or products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you

undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in
considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice
in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed

upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Spain: This report is distributed in Spain by UBS AG, Sucursal en España,
authorized under number 1460 in the Register by the Banco de España. Sweden: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Swedish law. It is
distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Sweden Bankfilial, with place of business at Regeringsgatan 38, 11153 Stockholm, Sweden, registered

### Page 12

with the Swedish Companies Registration Office under Reg. No 516406-1011. UBS Europe SE, Sweden Bankfilial is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central
Bank, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht,
"BaFin"), as well as of the Swedish supervisory authority (Finansinspektionen), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit

institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Taiwan: This material is provided by UBS AG, Taipei Branch in
accordance with laws of Taiwan, in agreement with or at the request of clients/prospects.  Thailand: This communication and any offering material, term sheet, research
report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this communication were done so as a result of a request received by UBS

from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy
the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in
whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with

any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any
investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts)
nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the

Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and
exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek
independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon

your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Türkiye: The information in this document
is not provided for the purpose of offering, marketing or sale of any capital market instrument or service in the Republic of Türkiye. Therefore, this document may not be
considered as an offer made, or to be made, to residents of the Republic of Türkiye in the Republic of Türkiye. UBS Switzerland AG is not licensed by the Capital Markets Board

of Türkiye (the CMB) under the provisions of the Capital Market Law (Law No. 6362). Accordingly, neither this document nor any other offering material related to the
instrument/service may be utilized in connection with providing any capital market services to persons within the Republic of Türkiye without the prior approval of the CMB.
However, according to article 15 (d) (ii) of the Decree No. 32 residents of the Republic of Türkiye are allowed to purchase or sell the financial instruments traded in financial

markets outside of the Republic of Türkiye. Further to this, pursuant to article 9 of the Communiqué on Principles Regarding Investment Services, Activities and Ancillary
Services No. III-37.1, investment services provided abroad to residents of the Republic of Türkiye based on their own initiative are not restricted. United Arab Emirates
(UAE) / DIFC / Abu Dhabi: UBS is not licensed in the UAE by the Central Bank of the UAE nor by the Emirates’ Securities and Commodities Authority and does not undertake

The investment research may be out of date. You should seek investment advice before acting on the basis of the Investment Research. Abu Dhabi: UBS AG Abu Dhabi
Branch is licensed and regulated by the Financial Services Regulatory Authority (“FSRA”) of the Abu Dhabi Global Market. This material is intended solely for professional
clients or market counterparties, as defined in the rules of the FSRA. It is not directed at, nor intended for, retail clients or any person who does not meet the criteria of a

professional client or market counterparty. United Kingdom: This document is issued by UBS Wealth Management, a division of UBS AG which is authorised and regulated
by the Financial Market Supervisory Authority in Switzerland. In the United Kingdom, UBS AG is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation
by the Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. Details about the extent of regulation by the Prudential Regulation

UBS is a premier global financial services firm offering wealth management services to individual, corporate and institutional investors. UBS is established in Switzerland and
operates under Swiss law and in over 50 countries and from all major financial centers. UBS is not registered and licensed as a bank/financial institution under Ukrainian
legislation and does not provide banking and other financial services in Ukraine. UBS has not made, and will not make, any offer of the mentioned products to the public in

Ukraine. No action has been taken to authorize an offer of the mentioned products to the public in Ukraine and the distribution of this document shall not constitute financial
services for the purposes of the Law of Ukraine "On Financial Services and Financial Companies" dated 14 December 2021. Any offer of the mentioned products shall not
constitute an investment advice, public offer, circulation, transfer, safekeeping, holding or custody of securities in the territory of Ukraine. Accordingly, nothing in this

document or any other document, information or communication related to the mentioned products shall be interpreted as containing an offer, a public offer or invitation to
offer or to a public offer, or solicitation of securities in the territory of Ukraine or investment advice under Ukrainian law. Electronic communication must not be considered as
an offer to enter into an electronic agreement or other electronic instrument within the meaning of the Law of Ukraine "On Electronic Commerce" dated 3 September 2015.

This document is strictly for private use by its holder and may not be passed on to third parties or otherwise publicly distributed. USA: Distributed to US persons only by UBS
Financial Services Inc. or UBS Securities LLC, subsidiaries of UBS AG. UBS Switzerland AG, UBS Europe SE, UBS Bank, S.A., UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores
Mobiliários S.A., UBS Asesores México, S.A. de C.V., UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Management Co., Ltd., UBS Wealth Management Israel Ltd. and UBS Menkul Degerler AS are

affiliates of UBS AG.  UBS Financial Services Inc. accepts responsibility for the content of a report prepared by a non-US affiliate when it distributes reports to
US persons. All transactions by a US person in the securities mentioned in this report should be effected through a US-registered broker dealer affiliated with
UBS, and not through a non-US affiliate. The contents of this report have not been and will not be approved by any securities or investment authority in the

United States or elsewhere. UBS Financial Services Inc. is not acting as a municipal advisor to any municipal entity or obligated person within the meaning of
Section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Municipal Advisor Rule") and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not
constitute, advice within the meaning of the Municipal Advisor Rule.  For information on the ways in which UBS Securities LLC manages conflicts and maintains

ab

---
## Document 161: A Fed credibility-induced bounce

Source PDF: all report pdf/A Fed credibility-induced bounce.pdf
Report source: 渣打銀行 (Weekly Market Views)
Date: 2026-09-18
Pages: 15
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

WS Global CIO Office 
18 September 2026

A Fed credibility- 
induced bounce

 The Fed’s unanimous decision to 
hike rates this week for the first time 
since 2023 and pencil in another hike 
by December confirms our 
expectations of a central bank willing to 
establish its independence against 
political pressure. 
 The BoJ also hiked rates this week. 
It is the first time on record all three 
major central banks – Fed, ECB and 
BoJ – have hiked in the same month, 
as they respond to a resurgence in 
energy-driven inflation amid tight job 
markets. 
 We expect the Fed to hike once 
more by year-end to 4.25% and follow 
up with another hike in H1 2027 to 
4.5%. With the revised estimates, we 
revise up our US government bond 
yield forecasts.  
 Nevertheless, with Fed policy 
uncertainty easing, we see an 
opportunity to use the equity market dip 
to add exposure amid solid corporate 
earnings.

What is the outlook for US 
government bond yields 
following the Fed meeting? 
Will the step-up in the Fed’s 
risk-free rate trigger a repricing 
of equities? 
What is the impact of BoJ and 
BoE policy meetings on their 
respective currencies?

### Page 2

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

Charts of the week: Fed joins the fray

The Fed hiked for the first time since 2023, joining its peers, and moderately upgraded its policy rate estimate for this year 
Fed, ECB, BoJ and BoE policy rates   Fed’s updated economic projections

GDP 
Unemploy-
ment Core PCE 
Rates 
estimates 
Dates Old New Old New Old New Old New 
2026 2.2 2.3 4.3 4.1 3.3 3.4 3.8 4.1 
2027 2.3 2.4 4.3 4.1 2.5 2.5 3.6 4.1 
2028 2.2 2.2 4.2 4.1 2.1 2.2 3.4 3.9 
LR* 2.0 2.0 4.2 4.2     3.1 3.2

Source: Federal Reserve, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Editorial 
A Fed credibility-induced bounce  
Strategy summary:  The Fed’s unanimous decision to hike 
rates this week for the first time since 2023 , and pencil in 
another hike by December, confirms our expectations – flagged 
in the last two weeklies - of a central bank willing to establish its 
independence against political pressure. The Fed’s moderately 
hawkish pivot is helping restore its inflation-fighting credentials. 
The BoJ also hiked rates this week. It is the first time on record 
all three major central banks – Fed, ECB and BoJ – have hiked 
in the same month , as they respond primarily to a resurgence 
in energy-driven inflation amid tight job markets.  
We expect the Fed to hike once more by year-end to 4.0-4.25% 
and follow up with another hike in H1 2027 to 4.25 -4.5%. With 
the revised estimates, we revise up our US government bond 
yield forecasts. Nevertheless, with Fed policy uncertainty 
easing, we see an opportunity to use the equity market dip to 
add exposure amid solid corporate earnings.  
Fed moves to restore credibility:  The Fed’s policy pivot this 
week followed Chair Warsh’s hawkish Jackson Hole speech 
and recent economic data prints, namely: a pick -up in job 
creation and inflation over the summer and a sharp rebound in 
oil prices due to the re -escalation of the Middle E ast conflict. 
Given the unanimous Fed decision to hike rates this week, we 
expect two more hikes by  June 2027 on the back of  robust 
growth amid strong AI investments and a tight labour market, 
keeping inflation elevated. We expect this pivot to help the Fed 
rebuild credibility as an inflation fighter.  
Policy outlook less aggressive than market pricing : The 
updated Fed policy rate estimates are lower compared with 
money market pricing of three more rate hikes by June 2027 
since we expect disinflation to take hold by Q2 2027 as the 
impact of oil prices and tariffs fade. We believe policy rates can 
return to the 4.0–4.25% range by end-2027, with the possibility 
of cuts in H2 2027 as inflation pressures ease.  
Upgrading near-term US rates and USD estimates : Based 
on these revised estimates, we also upgrade our 3-month target 
for the US 10 -year government bond yield to 5.0 -5.25%. We 
also revise up our 12 -month target for the US 10 -year bond 
yield to 4.75-5.0% (see page 4).  
Buying the equity dip as focus turns to fundamentals: Fed 
hikes typically do not hurt equities over the medium-term when 
accompanied by strong earnings growth. We estimate a 25bps 
rise in Fed rates (the discount rate) would impact the S&P500 
index and global equities by 3 -4%. However, we expect the 
headwind from higher rates to be offset by strong earnings 
growth, driving positive performance for global equities.  
Furthermore, a hawkish Fed is largely priced in and we expect 
the Fed to deliver fewer rate hikes than currently priced by 
markets. Meanwhile, we believe concerns over AI industry 
leaders slowing the pace of development are overdone. Hence, 
we maintain our preference for a diversified group of large cap 
technology and semiconductor industry leaders (see page 5-6). 
BoJ hikes; modestly bullish JPY : The BoJ hiked rates by 
25bps to a three-decade high of 1.25%, as expected, but the 7-
2 split vote led to renewed JPY weakness on concerns it may 
slow the pace of further hikes. We remain constructive on JPY 
amid narrowing rate differential vs peers as the BoJ potentially 
hikes rates by 25bps once per quarter until Q2 2027 to curb 
rising domestic wage-driven inflation pressure . Any sign of BoJ 
slowing the pace of hikes could lead to renewed JPY weakness, 
fuelling inflationary pressures (see page 7).  
BoE holds; rangebound GBP: The BoE held rates this week, 
bucking the hiking trend among peers, as weakening UK job 
and housing markets offset rebound in energy-driven inflation. 
We expect BoE to deliver fewer rate hikes than the 100bps of 
increase currently priced by markets  as the job market slows 
further. This is likely to keep GBP rangebound (see page 7).  
—  Rajat Bhattacharya  
4.0
2.5
3.8
1.3
-1.0
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
Sept-21 May-23 Jan-25 Sept-26
%
Fed ECB BoE BOJ

### Page 3

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

The weekly macro balance sheet 
Our weekly net assessment: On balance, we see the past week’s data 
and policy as negative for risk assets in the near-term 
(+) factors: Strong US retail sales; resilient China industrial output 
(-) factors: Weak US and Euro area sentiment; hawkish central banks

Positive for risk assets Negative for risk assets 
Macro data 
• US retail sales control 
group rose 1.4% m/m in 
August, above estimates 
• Euro area industrial 
production fell less than 
expected by 0.1% m/m 
• China industrial production 
beat estimates in August 
• US Michigan sentiment fell 
to 47.8 in September 
• Euro area ZEW sentiment 
fell to 25.8 in September 
• China retail sales and 
fixed-asset investment 
came in below consensus 
in August 
Our assessment: Neutral – Strong Euro area and China 
industrial production vs. weak US and Euro area sentiment 
Policy  
developments 
• BoJ raised its policy rate 
by 25bps to a three-
decade high of 1.25%, as 
expected. The 7-2 split 
vote raised the risk of a 
slower pace of future hikes 
• The Fed raised its rate by 
25bps in a unanimous 12-0 
vote, and projected 
another hike this year 
• The BoE held rates 
unchanged as expected, 
while the minutes signalled 
a growing hawkish tilt 
Our assessment: Negative – Hawkish Fed, BoE and BoJ 
Other 
developments 
• US-China discuss tariff 
concessions to extend 
trade truce ahead of the 
leaders' summit on 24 Sep 
• President Trump said US 
and Canada will likely 
announce trade deal soon 
• Saudi Arabia temporarily 
shut down its main East-
West crude oil pipeline 
following a drone attack 
• Ukraine struck a Russian 
oil refinery, despite 
Trump's claim of an energy 
infrastructure ceasefire 
• China warned of cancelling 
summit if US approves 
new arms sales to Taiwan 
• AI leaders called for a 
slowdown in development, 
but immediately faced 
intense pushback from the 
administration 
Our assessment: Negative – Ongoing geopolitical tensions, 
political pressure on Fed to cut rates

US retail sales growth accelerated in August; 
however, the Michigan consumer sentiment index 
declined more than expected in September  
US Michigan consumer sentiment and retail sales 
control group (core retail sales)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

The ZEW survey indicated that Euro area optimism 
is fading outside of Germany 
Euro area and Germany ZEW survey expectations

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

China's retail sales growth was subdued and 
investment slumped in August  
China retail sales, industrial production and fixed asset 
investment growth

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

47.8
5.6
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
40
50
60
70
80
Sep-24 May-25 Jan-26 Sep-26
%
Index
US University of Michigan Sentiment
US retail sales control group growth (RHS)
25.8
34.7
-30
-15
0
15
30
45
60
Sep-24 May-25 Jan-26 Sep-26
Index
Euro area ZEW survey expectations
Germany ZEW survey expectations
1.1
5.3
-7.2
-9.0
-6.0
-3.0
0.0
3.0
6.0
9.0
Aug-24 Apr-25 Dec-25 Aug-26
YTD % y/y
China retail sales
China industrial production
China fixed asset investment

### Page 4

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

Top client questions 
  Where do you see US government bond  yields following 
the Fed’s 16 September decision to hike interest rates? 
Our view: The US 10-year government bond yield is likely to 
retest the 5.00-5.25% range in the near term. We favour 3-7-year 
maturity bond s in t he US, preferring credit over government 
bonds. We are looking for an opportunity to extend duration 
approaching Q2 2027. 
Rationale: Over the next few months, we expect 2- and 30-year US 
government bond yields to remain rangebound, but the 10-year yield 
is expected to rebound up to the 5.00-5.25% range. The reasons for 
this include: 1) oil prices staying elevated and potentially rise further 
due to the fluid geopolitical situation in the Middle East, with Saudi 
Arabia’s East-West oil pipeline shut, the Houthis now firmly in control 
of the Strait of Bab-al-Mandab, the Strait of Hormuz still closed and 
China returning as a buyer of crude oil in the market ; 2) despite 
notable AI leaders expressing the need to slow AI development, AI 
capex plans are showing no signs of slowing down, which continues 
to drive above-trend growth in the economy. This, in turn, also means 
AI-related heavy bond issuance  is expected to continue. These 
issuers typically issue long-dated tenors, and this competition for 
capital will also exert upward pressure on the US 10-year yields. 
We note that the US 10-year bond yield has room to move lower, 
driven by short-covering activities in the very near term as net-short 
positions had moved to extreme levels before th is week’s  Fed 
meeting. However, we think such downshifts would be short-lived 
and the central tendency for the 10-year yield would be to move back 
up to the 5.00-5.25% range. 
Meanwhile, we see US 30-year yields continuing to reflect the dire 
fiscal outlook for the US government. We expect US 2-year yields 
to continue trading in a range that reflects expectations of further 
federal funds rate hikes. For the record, we only expect two more 
rate hikes from the Fed into the middle of 2027 , while money 
markets are pricing in three more for the same period. 
Going into H2 2027, we expect oil prices to moderate (either 
through a resolution of the M iddle East conflict or a re-routing of oil 
supply chains)  and the inflationary effects from tariffs to fade. 
Inflation by then is likely be close to – if not at – the Fed’s target of 
2%. At this point, we see room for the Fed to contemplate rate 
cuts. US 2-year yields (the tenor that is most sensitive to Fed policy 
changes) will likely start to price th is in. With oil prices and inflation 
cooling, 10-year yields would also have room to come down. 
US 30-year yields, on the other hand, are expected to  remain 
elevated as the US fiscal deficit remains substantial next year and 
could become much worse than its already dire state today. As a 
result, the ‘term premium ’ may keep the ultra -long end elevated. 
Short of some unorthodox policy to artificially cap them lower, 30 -
year yields could continue to drift higher into H2 2027. 
We continue to favour the 3-7-year segment of the yield curve and 
prefer credit over government bond s. We see an opportunity for 
us to extend duration closer to Q2 2027. 
—  Jonathan Liang, CFA, CIO for Fixed Income and FX

We have updated our three- and 12-month outlook 
for US government bond yields 
Our latest US government bond yield forecast 
 3-month 12-month 
2-year 4.50 – 4.75% 4.00 – 4.25% 
10-year 5.00 – 5.25% 4.75 – 5.00% 
30-year 5.25 – 5.50% 5.50 – 5.75%

Source: Standard Chartered

Short-covering trades could move bond yields 
lower temporarily as net-short positions in US 
government bond futures have reached extreme 
levels this week  
Bloomberg Commodity Futures Trading Commission 
Chicago Board of Trade US government bond net 
non-commercial futures positions

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

-201
-300
-200
-100
0
100
200
Jan-10 May-18 Sep-26
thousands '000
Number of future contracts

### Page 5

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  Will the step -up in the  Fed’s risk-free rate trigger a re -
pricing of equities? 
Our view: We expect strong corporate earnings growth to offset 
the headwind of higher rates , driving positive performance for 
global equities. We remain Overweight global equities. 
Rationale: The Fed’s latest 25bps rate hike had been anticipated 
by the bond market, partly reflected in the bond yield  rise we have 
seen so far in 2026. Using the US 10-year government bond yield as 
a proxy for the risk -free rate, the yield has risen by 80-85bps this 
year. We estimate that each 25bps rise in the discount rate presents 
a valuation drag on global equities. On this basis, the rise in yields 
represents a potential 10-14% headwind for equities this year. 
However, the Fed’s hike reflects a solid expansion of US economic 
activity, resilient domestic spending and robust capital investment. 
This is consistent with the positive earnings revisions we have seen 
this year, with  2026 earnings growth projections now at 34% (and 
16% for 2027). Global equities are up 14% year-to-date (YTD), but 
even with a 14% valuation headwind from higher yields, we believe 
they can rise further, given strong earnings growth in 2026 and 2027. 
—  Fook Hien Yap, Senior Investment Strategist 
  What is the outlook for the US 10-year government bond 
yield? What is your tactical view on the DXY? 
Our view: We raise our three-month US 10 -year government 
bond yield forecast to the 5.00-5.25% range. Meanwhile, we see 
a near-term upward bias in the DXY after its recent downtrend, 
supported by recent Fed tightening and higher  short-term US 
bond yields.  
Rationale: The Fed 's decision  to raise the target range for the 
federal funds rate by 25bps to 3.75-4.00% validates the upside policy 
risks we flagged recently, following Fed Chair Warsh's Jackson Hole 
speech and a run of firmer US economic data. We expect growth 
to remain robust, the labour market  to remain tight and inflation to 
stay elevated, supporting one more hike before year-end 2026 and 
potentially another in H1 2027  – fewer than the three additional 
hikes currently priced in by money markets . For the US 10-year 
government bond yield, further policy tightening and lingering US 
fiscal concerns should keep yields elevated, but the Fed’s visible 
response to inflation should limit additional upward pressure, leaving 
the 10-year yield holding around the 5.00-5.25% range. 
Crucially, Warsh provided no forward guidance on further rate 
hikes. Markets had already priced in substantial additional rate hikes 
ahead of the Fed meeting, reducing the scope for further USD upside 
purely from rate repricing. Meanwhile, we expect further policy 
tightening from the ECB and the BoJ, while the RBA also remains 
biased towards further tightening. This should gradually narrow the 
US rate advantage and limit the extent of a DXY rebound. 
—  Vincent Tan, Senior Investment Strategist 
—  Anthony Naab, CFA, Investment Strategist

Global equities’ earnings growth estimates have 
been revised higher this year, offsetting the 
headwind from higher rates 
Evolution of consensus 2026 and 2027 earnings 
growth for the MSCI AC World Index (MSCI ACWI)

Source: FactSet, Standard Chartered

The US Dollar Index (DXY) remains closely linked 
to US front-end rate expectations 
The DXY tracks US 2-year government bond yields

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

34.0
15.7
10
15
20
25
30
35
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
%
2026 2027
4.7
100.2
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
3.3
3.6
3.9
4.2
4.5
4.8
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
USD
%
US 2Y Government Bond Yield DXY (RHS)

### Page 6

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  How should investors position in technology as AI lab 
CEOs call for a slowdown in frontier AI model development? 
Our view: We believe concerns over “pacing the frontier” are 
overdone. We maintain our preference to remain invested in 
and diversified across Big Tech and semiconductor leaders. 
Rationale: We believe it is prudent for investors to avoid 
overreacting to the recent calls for a slowdown in frontier AI model 
development, as they focus on responsible AI development, rather 
than halting AI model development or reducing spending. The global 
AI leadership  race, reinforced by the US and China’s  strategic 
ambitions, also makes a coordinated slowdown unlikely. 
While the near-term narrative may shift from AI training beneficiaries 
towards inference plays, hyperscalers continue to signal strong AI 
infrastructure commitments and improving monetisation, supporting 
our AI capex outlook. Rising AI adoption and agentic use cases 
should sustain inference demand, even if training activity moderates, 
benefiting custom AI chips, NAND flash memory and hyperscalers.  
We believe the decline in valuations  this year more than 
compensates for any downside risk to AI capex. Our Opportunistic 
idea on Global Semiconductors further reflects our conviction, with 
attractive valuations supporting selective additions during volatility. 
—  Ryan Goh, Investment Strategist 
  With ASEAN and UK equities outperforming AI-focused 
markets in H2 2026, is it worth adding to these markets? 
Our view: ASEAN and UK equities offer portfolio diversification, 
but we are Underweight both markets in favour of US and Asia 
ex-Japan (AxJ) equities, given their stronger earnings potential. 
Rationale: The ASEAN and UK markets have outperformed the 
MSCI ACWI over the past three months, but both have 
underperformed on a YTD basis. Financials is the largest sector in 
the ASEAN (53%) and the UK (28%) and provides steady earnings. 
However, both markets have minimal exposure to the technology 
sector (just 3% and 1% , respectively), ultimately dragging down 
growth. Hence, while defensive markets offer value by increasing 
diversification and reducing volatility in a portfolio, we maintain our 
Underweight allocation for ASEAN and the UK, as we see much 
stronger earnings potential elsewhere in the US and AxJ markets.  
We remain Overweight US and AxJ, supported by robust earnings 
growth, as  AI still has the potential to become a major economic 
growth driver . Our 12-month S&P500 Index forecast of 8,400  
implies low-teens upside, supported by a strong earnings backdrop 
of 25-30% earnings-per-share growth for 2026 and 15 -20% for 
2027. AxJ also boasts the strongest earnings growth among major 
markets, fuelled by the AI semiconductor super-cycle. 
—  Cindy Lam, CFA, Senior Investment Strategist

Our AI capex estimates are 15-20% below 
consensus expectations to account for execution 
risks 
Global AI capex is expected to register a CAGR of 
33% over 2025-30

Source: Company reports, Standard Chartered

Our Overweight views on AxJ and US equities are 
supported by robust earnings growth 
Consensus 2026 and 2027 earnings growth estimates 
for MSCI equity indices

Source: FactSet, Standard Chartered

60 150 225
405
750
1,000
1,250
1,450
1,675
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2022
2023
2024
2025E
2026E
2027E
2028E
2029E
2030E
USD bn
Global AI capex
2025 - 2030E
CAGR = 33%
86%
27%
34%
16%
32%
16%
24%
5%7% 7%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2026 2027
Asia ex-Japan Global US UK ASEAN

### Page 7

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

Top client questions (cont’d) 
  Why is it still appropriate to have a positive stance on US 
high-yield (HY) bonds? 
Our view: We remain opportunistically bullish on US HY bonds. 
Lower sensitivity to interest rate volatility, a below-trend default 
rate and a maturity wall pushed out to 2028-29 drive this view. 
Rationale: Recent interest rate volatility has highlighted a key 
structural advantage of US HY bonds: their higher coupon rates  
and shorter tenors relative to Developed Market (DM) government 
bonds and US investment-grade (IG) corporate bonds translate into 
a much lower sensitivity to interest rates, cushioning bond prices 
during yield backup episodes, where bond yields rise sharply. 
YTD, US HY has delivered 1.8% in total returns, outperforming DM 
government bonds and US IG corporate bonds by over 3% each on 
a relative basis. This outperformance was particularly evident during 
the recent back-up in bond yields, as inflation concerns re-emerged 
after renewed Middle East tensions – an environment where HY's 
lower rate sensitivity provided a relative cushion  even as broader 
fixed income markets came under pressure in absolute terms. On 
the fundamentals side, US HY corporate credit quality remains 
resilient. Default rates continue to track below long-run trend levels, 
and the maturity wall has been pushed out to 2028 -29, reducing 
near-term refinancing risk. Against a non -recessionary macro 
backdrop, we expect these credit fundamentals to hold, supporting 
the case for continued opportunistic exposure to the asset class.  
—  Ray Heung, Senior Investment Strategist 
  Do the latest BoJ and BoE meetings alter your view on the 
central banks’ rate paths and their corresponding currencies? 
Our view: We remain constructive on the JPY and expect two 
BoJ rate hikes this year and potentially one hike per quarter in 
H1 2027 as policy normalisation continues. Meanwhile, the BoE 
held rates at 3.75%. We expect GBP/USD to stay rangebound 
within 1.32-1.36 over the next 1-3 months, with downside risk 
towards the lower end of our medium-term 1.30-1.36 range. 
Rationale: Persistent inflation, higher energy prices and earlier JPY 
weakness support further BoJ policy normalisation . Continued 
hiking should progressively narrow the US -Japan rate gap, reduce 
the attractiveness of JPY -funded carry trades and support  the JPY 
over the medium term towards the 153-155 range. However, with a 
September hike largely priced  in, future tightening ’s pace  will be 
more important for the JPY. Meanwhile, the BoE was split 6-3 in its 
decision to hold rates at 3.75% , with three members preferring a 
25bps hike, signalling elevated inflation risks. However, a weaker 
labour market is likely to limit the pace of BoE tightening. The US-
UK rate divergence is expected to favour the USD over the next 1-3 
months. Further BoE tightening (if inflation remains elevated ) could 
narrow the rate gap and provide support to the GBP later in the cycle. 
—  Vincent Tan, Senior Investment Strategist

We expect US HY bonds to continue delivering 
strong performance in the near term 
Total returns: US HY corporate, US IG corporate and 
DM government bond indices

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

USD/JPY vs. US-Japan 2-year government bond 
yield differential

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

103.0
99.7
99.3
98.5
99.5
100.5
101.5
102.5
103.5
104.5
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
US HY US IG DM Govvies
156.2
2.8
2.10
2.30
2.50
2.70
2.90
146
149
152
155
158
161
164
Sep-25 Jan-26 May-26 Sep-26
%
USD/JPY
USD/JPY
US-Japan 2y government bond yield differential (RHS)

### Page 8

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

Market performance summary*

Sources: MSCI, JP Morgan, Barclays Capital, Citigroup, Dow Jones, HFRX, FTSE, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
*Performance in USD terms unless otherwise stated, 2026 YTD performance from 31 December 2025 to 17 September 2026; 1-week period: 10 
September 2026 to 17 September 2026 
0.0%
-0.8%
-0.3%
-0.3%
-0.4%
-0.7%
-2.3%
-0.2%
0.6%
0.2%
-2.6%
0.5%
-0.5%
-0.6%
-1.4%
0.2%
-1.1%
-1.1%
-0.6%
-1.0%
-1.1%
-1.2%
-0.1%
-1.4%
0.0%
-0.4%
-0.2%
-1.7%
-1.2%
-0.1%
-0.9%
0.1%
-0.5%
-1.0%
-1.2%
2.5%
-2.0%
0.0%
-0.7%
1.7%
-1.0%
-0.9%
0.2%
-0.6%
-2.3%
-8.0%
-1.7%
-1.4%
-1.1%
-2.3%
-0.4%
-2.0%
-3.4%
0.7%
-0.9%
0.3%
-0.2%
1.1%
0.6%
-3.2%
0.4%
-0.1%
-0.1%
-10% -5% 0% 5%
1 Week
6.6%
6.3%
2.0%
1.0%
3.8%
36.6%
18.6%
85.9%
10.2%
-2.3%
74.0%
0.5%
0.9%
0.8%
-3.9%
4.0%
-1.9%
-0.4%
6.6%
0.5%
-0.9%
-2.3%
-0.1%
-1.0%
1.9%
1.5%
-1.6%
-5.8%
0.8%
0.4%
-3.9%
-1.3%
-1.5%
6.0%
2.9%
1.4%
12.9%
30.2%
10.1%
5.8%
10.1%
38.1%
4.6%
-6.8%
64.4%
88.0%
-12.6%
-11.8%
5.2%
17.2%
30.6%
3.7%
23.5%
11.2%
21.9%
21.1%
8.5%
10.9%
12.2%
22.0%
12.1%
16.3%
13.2%
-40% -20% 0% 20% 40% 60% 80% 100%
Macro CTAs
Equity Long/Short
Event Driven
Relative Value
Composite (All strategies)
Diversified Commodity
Agriculture
Energy
Industrial Metal
Precious Metal
Crude Oil
Gold
Asia ex-Japan
SGD
CHF
CNH
CAD
NZD
AUD
JPY
GBP
EUR
Asia HC
Europe High Yield
US High Yield
DM High Yield Corporates
DM IG Corporates
Asia EM LC
EM Sovereign LC
EM Sovereign HC
EU Sovereign
US Sovereign
DM IG Sovereign
Global Property Equity/REITs
Utilities
Communication Services
Materials
IT
Industrial
Healthcare
Financial
Energy
Consumer Staples
Consumer Discretionary
Taiwan
South Korea
India
China
Middle East
Latam
Eastern Europe
Africa
Asia ex-Japan
United Kingdom
Japan (USD)
Japan (Local)
Western Europe (USD)
Western Europe (Local)
US
Emerging Markets (EM)
Developed Markets (DM)
Global High Divi Yield Equities
Global Equities
Year to Date
Bonds | Credit
Equity | Country & Region
Bonds | Sovereign
Alternatives
FX (against USD)
Equity | Sector
Commodity

### Page 9

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

Our 12-month asset class views at a glance 
Asset class 
Equities ▲  Preferred Sectors  
US ▲  US Technology ▲ 
Europe ex-UK ◆  US Communication  ▲ 
UK ▼  US Financials  ▲ 
Asia ex-Japan ▲  Europe ex-UK Financials ▲ 
Japan ◆  Europe ex-UK Industrials ▲ 
Other EM ◆  Japan Financials ▲ 
   China Communication ▲ 
Bonds ◆  China Technology ▲

Credit   Govt  
Asia USD ◆  Govt EM Local ◆ 
Corp DM HY ◆  Govt DM IG ▼ 
Govt EM USD ▲    
Corp DM IG ◆  Alternatives ◆

Gold ▲

Source: Standard Chartered Global Investment Committee 
Legend:  ▲ Most preferred  |  ▼ Less preferred  |  ◆ Core holding

Economic and market calendar 
 Market Event Period Expected Prior

MON 
USD Chicago Fed Nat 
Activity Index Aug -0.06 -0.08

TUE USD Richmond Fed 
Manufact. Index Sep – 4.0 
EUR Consumer Confidence Sep P – -15.5

WED 
EUR S&P Global Eurozone 
Manufacturing PMI Sep P – 52.7 
EUR S&P Global Eurozone 
Services PMI Sep P – 51.6 
USD S&P Global US 
Manufacturing PMI Sep P – 53.9 
USD S&P Global US 
Services PMI Sep P – 56.5

THU 
JPY S&P Global Japan 
Manufacturing PMI Sep P – 54.9 
JPY S&P Global Japan 
Services PMI Sep P – 52.5 
CHF SNB Policy Rate 24-Sep 0.0% 0.0% 
EUR IFO Business Climate Sep – 88.8 
USD New Home Sales Aug 615k 607k

FRI/SAT 
EUR GfK Consumer 
Confidence Oct – -26.6 
USD Durable Goods Orders Aug P -0.3% 1.1%

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
Prior data are for the preceding period unless otherwise indicated. Data 
are % change on previous period unless otherwise indicated 
P - preliminary data, F - final data, sa - seasonally adjusted, y/y - year-
on-year, m/m - month-on-month

The S&P500 has next interim resistance at 7,770 
Technical indicators for key markets as of 17 Sep close

Index Spot 
1st 
support 
1st 
resis-
tance 
12m 
forward 
P/E (x) 
12m 
forward 
dividend 
yield (%) 
S&P 500 7,638 7,507 7,770 19.1  1.2  
STOXX 50 6,323 6,172 6,496 14.8  3.2  
FTSE 100 10,816 10,628 10,962 12.8  3.5  
TOPIX 4,094 3,975 4,205 16.1  2.3  
Shanghai Comp 3,876 3,814 3,966 12.7  3.1  
Hang Seng 24,604 23,972 25,623 10.3  3.5  
Nifty 50 23,271 22,798 24,061 17.4  1.9  
MSCI Asia  
ex-Japan 1,113 1,085 1,156 9.8  2.5  
MSCI EM 1,688 1,643 1,751 9.6  3.1  
Crude oil (WTI) 101.9 85.4 112.6 na na 
Gold 4,342 4,153 4,614 na na 
UST 10Y Yield 4.93 4.68 5.11 na na 
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
Note: These short-term technical levels are based on models and may 
differ from a more qualitative analysis provided in other pages

Investor diversity has normalised across asset classes 
Our proprietary market diversity indicators as of 17 Sep close 
Level 1 Diversity 
1-month 
trend 
Fractal 
dimension 
Global Bonds ●  1.51 
Global Equities ●  1.90 
Gold ●  1.76 
Equity       
MSCI US ●  1.70 
MSCI Europe ●  1.83 
MSCI AC AXJ ●  1.60 
Fixed Income       
DM Corp Bond ●  1.54 
DM High Yield ●  2.00 
EM USD ●  1.54 
EM Local ●  1.71 
Asia USD ●  1.64 
Currencies       
EUR/USD ●  1.98

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; Fractal dimensions below 
1.25 indicate extremely low market diversity/high risk of a reversal 
Legend:  ● High  |  ◐ Low to mid  |  ○ Critically low

### Page 10

Market views on-the-go 
MVOG

SC Wealth Insights 
Find out more

YouTube

Facebook

LinkedIn

PvB LinkedIn

SC Money 
Insights 
4 podcasts shows on Spotify 
and Apple platforms

Spotify

Apple Podcasts

Speak to your Relationship Manager/Investment Advisor today for access to our security specific publications.

Access our views 24/7 on key platforms

### Page 11

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

11

### Page 12

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

12

### Page 13

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

13

### Page 14

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

14

### Page 15

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 18 September 2026

15

provide financial services only to clients who qualify as Professional Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail Cl ients. As 
a Professional Client you will not be given the higher retail client protection and compensation rights and if you use yo ur right to be 
classified as a Retail Client we will be unable to provide financial services and products to you as we do not hold the required license 
to undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shari ah Supervisory Committee. 
Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank website in th e 
Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by th e Central Bank of the 
U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide financial 
analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodit ies Authority Decision No. 
48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis. Uganda: Our Investment products and services are distributed 
by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an investment adviser. United 
Kingdom: In the UK, Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. This communication has been approved by Standard Chartered Bank for the 
purposes of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 
2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Global Private Bank) is also an authorised financial services 
provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials 
have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal r equirements designed to promote the independence of investment research, 
and that it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research. V ietnam: This document 
is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulat ed by 
State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited fo r any queries 
regarding any content of this document. Zambia: This document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company 
incorporated in Zambia and registered as a commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial  
Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws of Zambia.

---
## Document 175: AI需求催化台积电加速扩产，2纳米月产能年底冲刺12万片

Source PDF: all report pdf/AI需求催化台积电加速扩产，2纳米月产能年底冲刺12万片.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

据报道，苹果、英伟达、 AMD 等巨头集体追加订单 10% 〜 20% ，直接推动台积电 2 纳⽶⽉
产能年底冲⾄ 12 万⽚，较原预估超出逾 20% ，并将 2027 年⽬标提前两年达成。五座⼯⼚同
步放量为史上⾸次， 2026—2028 年产能年复合增速⾼达 70% 。
摘要：
AI 芯⽚军备竞赛正在重塑全球最先进晶圆产能的扩张节奏。
据中国台湾媒体《经济⽇报》 9 ⽉ 28 ⽇消息，苹果、英伟达、 AMD 、⾼通、联发科等科技巨头近
期集体追加台积电 2 纳⽶家族产能预订，增幅达10% ⾄ 20%。受此驱动，台积电⼤幅提速 2 纳⽶
扩产计划，今年底⽉产能⽬标直指 12 万⽚，较市场此前预估的 9 万⾄ 10 万⽚⼤幅超出，且相当于
将原定 2027 年的产能⽬标提前两年实现。这⼀扩张速度已被台积电官⽅确认为史上最快。
台积电资深副总暨副共同营运⻓侯永清在今年台积电北美技术论坛披露，为应对 AI 等强劲需求，
今年将⾸度同时有五座 2 纳⽶⼚同步放量，涵盖新⽵两座、⾼雄三座。他同时指出， 2 纳⽶第⼀

年晶圆产出将较 2023 年 3 纳⽶第⼀年产出增加45%， 2026 年⾄ 2028 年 2 纳⽶产能年复合成⻓率将
⾼达70%。
与此同时，台积电 3 纳⽶产能扩张亦在同步推进。南科 3 纳⽶今年第四季⽉产能将接近 18 万⽚，
并在中国台湾、美国亚利桑那州及⽇本新增三座 3 纳⽶晶圆⼚，全⾯布局全球先进制程供应链。
客⼾追单踊跃， 2 纳⽶扩产进度⼤幅超前
市场原本预估，台积电 2 纳⽶家族今年底⽉产能约为 9 万⾄ 10 万⽚， 2027 年在持续双位数成⻓下
⽅可达到 11 万⾄ 14 万⽚区间。然⽽，据报道，业界消息⼈⼠透露，由于苹果与⾮苹客⼾群需求
强劲，台积电 2 纳⽶家族新产能开出速度与规模均创历史纪录，远超 3 纳⽶家族第⼀年的产能爬
升速度。
此番追单的客⼾阵容涵盖 AI 芯⽚与⾼速运算（ HPC ）领域的核⼼玩家 —— 苹果、英伟达、
AMD 、⾼通及联发科，追加预订幅度介于 10% ⾄ 20% 之间。报道称，台积电⼀贯不评论客⼾信
息与市场传闻，但侯永清在北美技术论坛的公开表态已从官⽅层⾯印证了这⼀扩产加速的事

实。
据报道，业界分析指出，台积电⼤举扩充 2 纳⽶家族产能，对于上述需要⼤规模且稳定先进制程
晶圆制造⽀援的客⼾⽽⾔⾄关重要，有助于锁定供应链安全并⽀撑各⾃的 AI 产品路线图。
五⼚同步放量， 2 纳⽶爬坡速度史上最快
据报道，侯永清在北美技术论坛的表态是迄今最为明确的官⽅扩产信号。今年同时有五座 2 纳⽶
⼚放量，在台积电历史上尚属⾸次，这⼀部署规模本⾝即反映出需求端的紧迫程度。
从量化指标来看， 2 纳⽶第⼀年晶圆产出较 2023 年 3 纳⽶第⼀年产出增加 45% ，意味着台积电在
更先进制程节点上实现了更陡峭的产能爬坡曲线。2026 年⾄ 2028 年， 2 纳⽶产能年复合成⻓率
预计达 70%，这⼀增速在半导体⾏业属于极为罕⻅的⾼强度扩张。
相⽐之下，台积电 3 纳⽶产能的扩张节奏相对平稳 ——2022 年⾄ 2027 年年复合成⻓率预计约为
25% 。两者增速的显著差距，折射出市场对更先进制程需求的快速向前迁移。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
65 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
3 纳⽶全球布局同步推进，美国新⼚ 2027 年量产
在 2 纳⽶加速扩产的同时，台积电 3 纳⽶产能扩张亦未放缓。南科 3 纳⽶今年第四季⽉产能将接近
18 万⽚，乐观预期 2027 年逼近 20 万⾄ 21 万⽚，年增约 16% 。
在全球产能布局层⾯，台积电正新增三座 3 纳⽶晶圆⼚，分别位于中国台湾、美国亚利桑那州以
及⽇本，以⽀应未来 3 纳⽶制程的持续需求。此外，台积电在中国台湾持续将 5 纳⽶设备转换以
⽀援 3 纳⽶产能，进⼀步提升现有⼚区的利⽤效率。
美国新⼚第⼆座晶圆⼚将采⽤ 3 纳⽶制程技术，⽬前已完成兴建，计划于 2027 年下半年开始量
产，这将是台积电在美国本⼟落地的最先进制程节点，对于满⾜美国本地客⼾的供应链需求具
有重要战略意义。

分析⼈⼠认为，台积电此轮 2 纳⽶扩产提速，对市场的直接影响体现在多个层⾯。
对客⼾⽽⾔，产能提前释放意味着苹果、英伟达等⼤客⼾能够更早获得充⾜的先进制程晶圆
供给，有助于加快 AI 芯⽚及终端产品的量产节奏，降低供应链瓶颈⻛险。
对台积电⾃⾝⽽⾔， 2 纳⽶产能的超预期扩张将显著增厚先进制程营收贡献，叠加 3 纳⽶全球
多点布局，整体营运动能有望持续强化。
对整体半导体产业⽽⾔，台积电在最先进制程节点上的快速扩产，进⼀步巩固其在全球晶圆
代⼯市场的主导地位，同时也意味着 AI 基础设施投资热潮正在从芯⽚设计端向制造端加速传
导。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 223: EcoNews of 14 September 2026 (2026-09-14)

Source PDF: all report pdf/EcoNews of 14 September 2026 (2026-09-14).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

The bank
for a changing
world
5
economic-research.bnpparibas.comEcoWeek 26.33 / 14 September 2026ECONEWS
Find out more in our scenario and forecasts
ADVANCED ECONOMIES
The past week saw unusually large increases in sovereign bond yields
across developed markets (see our Markets Overview of 14 September
2026).
EUROZONE
A “no-brainer” ECB hike. As expected, the ECB increased its main po -
licy rate by 25 bps to 2.5%. It revised up both its growth and inflation

forecasts, with the latter expected to be more protracted than pre -
viously thought. GDP excluding Ireland is expected to grow by 1.2%
in 2026 and 2027, and by 1.4% in 2028. Inflation would peak at 3.6%
in Q4 2026, then fall to 2.5% in Q2 2027 and would hover close to
2.0% thereafter. Although no forward guidance was provided, the mar-
ket took a hawkish read, pricing ½ a rate hike in October and more
than 3 additional hikes in total by mid-2027. This seems overdone to

us. We expect one more hike in December, but it depends largely on
the evolution of energy prices. Meanwhile, Q2 GDP growth was revised
up to 0.6% q/q (+0.2pp) due to a sharp revision in Ireland data. That
said, growth was broad-based with GDP growth excluding Ireland up
0.4% q/q, overwhelmingly driven by net exports. Employment climbed
again (0.1% m/m) as solid gains in Spain and Portugal offset another
(moderate) decline in Germany.
- European Union

Procurement simplification & innovation boost: The European Com -
mission unveiled its proposals for a new Procurement Regulation
focused on simplification and the European Innovation Act. Both ini -
tiatives are designed to strengthen the single market and Europe’s
competitiveness.
- France
Falling behind. INSEE revised its 2026 growth outlook down to 0.4%
even as the other large Eurozone economies are picking up steam.
The government also downgraded its forecast, to 0.5% (same as ours).

These include a 0.1% downgrade on account of summer’s heatwaves.
For Q3, INSEE forecasts 0.1% q/q GDP growth, 0.1 pp lower than our
forecast and the Banque de France’s nowcast. Manufacturing output
declined in July for the third consecutive month, by 0.8% m/m and 1.2%
3m/3m. This appears driven primarily by supply constraints in sectors
experiencing strong demand (capital goods, including aeronautics and
electronics). More positively, solid momentum in goods exports conti -

nues (+4% y/y in July, +5.2% YtD), mostly to Europe. Loan demand is
falling as interest rates rise: new housing loans plunged 17% m/m in
July, as interest rates reached their highest since January 2025 (3.30%
on average, +3 bp m/m). Yearly growth for bank and market financing
to non-financial corporates (NFCs) fell in July to 3.5% (-4 bp m/m) and
4.4% (-4 bp m/m) respectively. On the budget front, the government is
considering reducing the exceptional surtax on large corporates and

generating EUR 6bn of savings from pensions.
- Germany
Solid intra-EU export growth. German exports grew by 4.0% over Jan-
July compared to the same period in 2025 (despite a -0.8% m/m wobble
in July, missing expectations of a 0.1% rise). Gains are particularly ro -
bust to the EU and euro area (+6.5%). This offsets persistent losses to
the US (-1.5%) and China (-12.7%).
UNITED KINGDOM
Strengthening growth backdrop as Chancellor unveils strategy. Real

gross value-added rose 0.4% in the three months to July, led by a rise
in professional, scientific and technical activities (+2.1%, with scientific
R&D up 7.0%) and information and communication (+2.5%). The AI cycle
is gaining traction, with positive spillover effects on the manufacturing
sector. The latter rebounded 0.5% in the three months to July, with
output for computer, electronic and optical products sector being the
biggest contributor (+3.9%). The RICS housing survey was positive too,

with the sales expectations index improving for the fifth month running
in August and to its highest since January. The jobs market is showing
tentative signs of improvement. Staff placements increased for the first
time since September 2022, although vacancies declined again, poin -
ting to continued weakness in labour demand, according to the S&P
and KPMG UK Jobs Report.
John Healey, the UK's new Chancellor of the Exchequer, stressed fiscal
discipline as his “first priority” in his first major speech. While declining

to rule out tax rises, he pledged to tackle rising costs for businesses
and double the number of UK unicorn firms.
UNITED STATES
Inflation heats up, housing cools further. August Core CPI came in at
0.29% m/m (stable), a pace inconsistent with the Fed’s 2% objective
and above consensus expectations (0.2% m/m). Housing and non-hou-
sing core services both posted their largest monthly gains since April.
Energy compounded price pressures, with headline CPI up 0.4% m/m

and stable at 3.4% y/y. Producer price inflation jumped to 5.4% y/y
(up 0.5pp), while core PPI edged up to 4.7% (up 0.3pp), both above
expectations. Diesel passed the $6/gallon (national average), for the
first time ever. These price developments raised the market-implied
probability of a rate hike next week to 90% vs. 60% at the start of the
week. Meanwhile, existing home sales contracted for a third month in
a row in August (-2.0% m/m), pushing the annual growth rate into ne -

gative territory (-1.7% y/y). 30-year mortgage rate hit 6.85% last week,
the highest since June 2025.
JAPAN
Bullish data and Yen resurgence. Wage growth hit a three-decade
high in July. Nominal earnings climbed to 4.7% y/y in July (up 0.7pp),
the fastest pace since 1994. Real wages improved for a third straight
month to 2.4% y/y (up 0.2pp). Q2 GDP growth was revised upward to
0.4% q/q advance (up 0.1 pp from initial est.). Machine tool orders jum-

ped to 64.7% y/y in August (up 14.3pp) – a pick-up most pronounced in
foreign orders. With the BOJ multiplying hawkish signals, the USD/JPY
exchange rate is down to 154, its strongest since February, up almost
4% on the week and over 6% since the joint US/Japan invervention in
August.

### Page 2

6
economic-research.bnpparibas.comEcoWeek 26.33 / 14 September 2026
The bank
for a changing
world
ECONEWS Find out more in our scenario and forecasts
EMERGING ECONOMIES
EUROPE, AFRICA & MIDDLE EAST
- Central Europe
Inflation contained so far. August inflation data pointed to a marginal
uptick (Hungary: 1.3% y/y from 1.2% in July; Czech Republic: 1.9% y/y
from 1.7% in July). Poland’s inflation, at 3.4% y/y, was near the upper
end of the central bank’s target range. Meanwhile, Romania’s inflation

fell markedly (6.2% y/y from 8.2% y/y), as expected, from base effects.
Going forward, inflationary pressures are tilted to the upside due to the
recent rise in fuel prices at the pump. Meanwhile, the recent decline
in food prices should reverse in the coming months. As a consequence,
most Central banks will likely remain on hold though Hungary still has
a wider window to continue easing.
- Qatar
Mounting fiscal pressure. The budget deficit more than doubled to

USD 5.8 bn in Q2 (26 times the deficit in Q2 2025). Total revenues
dropped 57% y/y. Expenditures also fell sharply (-22% y/y).
- Saudi Arabia
A sharp economic contraction. Real GDP contracted by 4.7% in Q2,
the steepest decline since the pandemic, driven by the sharp fall in
hydrocarbon GDP (-24.4% y/y). Non-oil activity growth slowed to 0.9%
y/y from 2.5% y/y in Q1; it remained resilient thanks to robust domestic
demand, notably public investment.

- South Africa
Poor growth performance in Q2. The economy contracted by 0.2% q/q,
ending six consecutive quarters of expansion. Year on year real growth
slowed to 0.9% from 1.9% in Q1, reflecting difficulties in the manufac -
turing and mining sectors, and weak investment.
- Türkiye
Near term set back to growth and inflation progress but rosier me -
dium-term outlook. The central bank held its one-week repo rate at
37% on September 10, citing upside risks to inflation. Annual headline

CPI was 31.5% in August. The ministry of Finance strongly revised up
its inflation forecast for this year (28.4% at year-end) and next. It also
downgraded its growth forecast to 3.3%, from 3.8% earlier. However,
it presented a relatively optimistic medium term soft-landing sce -
nario: inflation falls to single digits, growth accelerates towards 5%,
unemployment declines, and the current account deficit narrows si -
multaneously. This will require a significant improvement in producti-

vity and potential growth to avoid renewed demand-side inflationary
pressures.
ASIA
China
Low inflation, strong exports, and structural patches. In August, CPI
inflation rose to +0.8% y/y from +0.5% in July, due to higher energy
prices, but it remained below its Q2 average (+1.1% y/y). Food prices
continued to fall (-1.4% y/y) and core inflation remained low (+1% y/y
vs. +0.9% in July and +1.1% in Q2) given the absence of demand-side
inflationary pressure. Foreign trade continued to grow strongly in Au -

gust, driven by both volume and prices; export value was up 25% y/y vs.
23.9% in July and import value was up 28.2% y/y vs. 27.6% in July. The
trade surplus reached a gigantic USD 806 bn in the first eight months
of 2026, up from USD 782 bn in the same period in 2025. The authori -
ties adopted a new set of measures to address industrial over-capacity,
notably in the batteries sector. The government also announced a large
recapitalisation plan for 8 major financial institutions (RMB 360 bn):

3 state-owned banks (Agricultural Bank of China, ICBC and Export-Im-
port Bank of China) as well as insurance companies will benefit from
the scheme, which aims to stimulate credit supply and support the
financial soundness of these institutions
LATIN AMERICA
- Latam
Inflation accelerated in August except in Argentina, notably in Chile
(4.1% y/y from 3.5% in July), driven mainly by food and transporta -
tion costs. In Colombia, the acceleration (6.2% y/y from 6.0% in July),

was particularly due to rising food prices. In Mexico, headline infla -
tion picked up to 3.3% (from 3.1% y/y in July), though core disinflation
continued (3.9% y/y, slowing steadily since January 2026). In Argentina,
monthly inflation slowed to 1.7% in August, its lowest monthly level
in 14 months. But core inflation was stable at 1.8% m/m. Year on year
inflation rates slowed down marginally to 33.5% and 31.9% for headline
and core CPI respectively. Despite sluggish growth, inflation is likely to

remain above target across Latin America for some time. This could
prompt Mexico’s central bank to raise interest rates, while in Colom -
bia and Brazil, monetary easing remains possible, contingent on the
degree of fiscal tightening. Meanwhile, the Chilean central bank held
its policy rate at 4.5%, reflecting a cautious stance amid sticky core
inflation and external risks.
- Mexico
Revenue-based fiscal consolidation in 2027. Growth forecasts in the

Budget proposal are more conservative than in previous years (1.5%–
2.5% for 2027), while the deficit is set to narrow slightly to -3.9% of GDP
(from -4.1% in 2026), but debt will rise to 55% of GDP . Consolidation
relies on ambitious revenue growth, driven by an expanded corporate
tax base, stricter fiscal controls, and measures to combat evasion, off-
setting a 15% drop in oil revenues. Spending is nearly flat in real terms.
COMMODITIES
Energy prices continue to rise on the back of renewed tensions in

both straits of Hormuz and Bab el Mandeb. Saudi oil exports through
the E-W pipeline have stopped, at least temporarily. They are equi -
valent to roughly 4% of global oil supply. Crude oil prices breached
100 $/b (above 107$/b on Monday morning) and Brent Dec 2026 fu -
tures reached 100 $/b for the first time this year. Two new sources of
pressure: weekly US SPR stock release has been the lowest since end-
March (1.2mb for the week ending 4 September) and Chinese crude oil

imports expected to increase in September for the third consecutive
month after the decade-low level recorded in June. Unsurprisingly, re-
fined product prices reached new highs. Diesel cracks gained around
10% in Europe (92$/b) and 6% in the US (110$/b) over the week. The US
diesel fuel price reached 6$/gallon for the first time ever. The IEA has
sharply lowered its oil demand forecast for 2026. Demand is expected
to decline by 2.5 mb/d (compared to the previous estimate of 1.6 mb/d),

before growing by 2.6 mb/d in 2027.
TTF gas prices rose above 83€/MWh on Monday morning, the highest
since end-2022. EU gas pre-winter inventories reached 67.6% of full
capacity this week (official target is 80% at end-October).

---
## Document 234: Eurozone_ Inflation rises further, driven by energy prices but inflationary pressures are easing further; and confidence surveys continue to improve (2026-09-03)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Eurozone_ Inflation rises further, driven by energy prices but inflationary pressures are easing further; and confidence surveys continue to improve (2026-09-03).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Inflation-MidEast
war
Inflation excl.
energy-MidEast war
Inflation-Ukraine
war
Inflation excl.
energy-Ukraine war
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
MidEast war
Ukraine war
-8
-7
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
MidEast war
Ukraine war
August 2026: Business confidence in the services
sector anchors its improvement
August 2026: Business confidence in the
manufacturing sector remains well-oriented
August 2026: Price pressures continue to abate August 2026: Supply-side tensions are

stabilising
August 2026: Consumer confidence continues to
improve
August 2026: Limited rise in inflation, driven by
energy prices (bis)
Eurozone: Inflation rises further, driven by energy prices but inflationary pressures are
easing further; and confidence surveys continue to improve
03/09/2026 3
We have selected two inflation measures (with and without energy) and six survey indicators: 1/ business confidence, as
measured by the PMIs in the manufacturing and 2/ services sectors; 3/ the “input prices” and 4/ “output prices" components

of the composite PMI (in order to identify direct inflationary pressures); 5/ the “suppliers’ delivery times” component of the
manufacturing PMI (a direct indicator of possible supply difficulties and supply-demand imbalance, and therefore, indirectly,
of inflationary pressures in the making); 6/ household confidence, as reflected in its “assessment of financial situation in the
next 12 months” component (in order to capture the impact of inflation on purchasing power). The trends in each of these

indicators are observed relative to month m=0, corresponding to the start of the conflict. Each line does not represent the
level of the indicator, but its cumulative variation compared to month m=0.
The overall picture from the data available for August is positive in terms of confidence surveys and reinforces the
encouraging signs seen in previous months. According to PMI surveys, inflationary pressures continue to ease, while supply-
side tensions have stabilised. Business sentiment in the services sector remains stable, anchoring its previous gains, while

confidence in the manufacturing sector shows a further—and marked—improvement. Another notable and encouraging
development is the recovery in consumer confidence for the fourth consecutive month. The feared relapse in these various
indicators, due to renewed tensions in the Middle East, did not materialize—at least not in August. As for inflation, it
continues to rise (+0.4 percentage points, to 3.3% year-over-year), as expected, driven by energy prices, but the increase

remains limited in that it has not spread to non-energy inflation, which remains stable at 2.2%.
Source: S&P Global, Eurostat, European Commission, Macrobond, BNP Paribas
ECONOMIC RESEARCH
Change since m = 0 = February 2026 / February 2022.
Unit: inflation change in percentage point, point for confidence surveys.
Eurozone: Inflation (incl. & excl. Energy) Eurozone: Manufacturing PMI
Eurozone: Manufacturing PMI — Suppliers'
delivery times
Eurozone: Consumer confidence

Financial situation over the next 12 months
Eurozone: Services PMI
Eurozone: Composite PMI — Input and output
prices
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
Input prices-MidEast war
Outpout prices-MidEast war
Input prices-Ukraine war
Output prices-Ukraine war
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
MidEast war
Ukraine war
-20
-18
-16
-14
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
MidEast war
Ukraine war

---
## Document 271: LLM tokens price war accelerates_ Who win, lose, and what turning signs to check_

Source PDF: all report pdf/LLM tokens price war accelerates_ Who win, lose, and what turning signs to check_.pdf
Report source: Substack Reports
Date: 2026-09-23
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

From:    陸⾏之  Andrew Lu on global semis and techs <andrewhclu@substack.com>
Subject: LLM tokens price war accelerates? Who win, lose, and what turning signs to check?
Date:    1 hour ago
OpenAI, Anthropic 同步⼤幅降推理模型 Tokens 價，贏家，輸家是誰？價格戰下，我們在觀察哪些產業鏈指標
變化？

View in browser
LLM tokens price war accelerates?
Who win, lose, and what turning signs
to check?
OpenAI, Anthropic 同步⼤幅降推理模型 Tokens 價，贏家，輸家是
誰？價格戰下，我們在觀察哪些產業鏈指標變化？
Andrew Lu on global Semi/Techs
Sep 22 ∙ Paid

READ IN APP

Executive summary
在我們 9 ⽉ 18 ⽇的報告中（17-21% On-demand AI GPU pricing hike to shift value
from LLM companies to cloud vendors）， Nebius 10/1 全⾯調漲  Nvidia AI GPU ，
CPU ， Memory 租⽤價格，我們認為短期市場價值將從賣  tokens 的⼤語⾔ / 專家
語⾔模型公司轉到  AI 數據中⼼算⼒基礎建設公司。⽽今天  OpenAI 正式發布
GPT-6 家族平價主⼒「 GPT-6 Sol 」與「 GPT-6 Luna 」，官⽅價格永久腰斬，
Perplexity 設為預設引擎，同⼀時間， Anthropic 推出  Claude Opus 5.5 新模型，
價格⽐前代 Opus 5.0 低 20% ，閉源帝國打響狙擊開源模型的⽣死戰，這更加強
了我們之前擔⼼的市場價值轉移。
What’s new?
9 ⽉  22 ⽇晚間⾄  23 ⽇晨間， OpenAI 正式宣布擴展其旗艦  GPT-6 產品線，同步
發布中階核⼼主⼒「 GPT-6 Sol 」與輕量級⾼頻模型「 GPT-6 Luna 」。不同於業
界常⾒的限時促銷， OpenAI 發⾔⼈向科技媒體證實，此次降價為「永久性結
構降價」：
- GPT-6 Sol 定價為每百萬  Tokens 輸⼊  US$2 / 輸出  US$10 (vs. US$4/US$20 for
GPT-5.6 Sol 砍了⼀半），相較  Astra 的  $10/$50 暴降  80% ，性能在各項基準測試

### Page 2

中填補了與  Astra 絕⼤部分差距，專攻企業複雜⼯作流、代碼審查與即時數據
分析；
- GPT-6 Luna 定價僅為輸⼊  $0.1 / 輸出  $0.5 （ vs. US$0.2/US$1.2) ，專攻⽂本摘
要與快速萃取，直接將價格殺⼊中國⼤陸開源模型  DeepSeek V4.1-Flash 的主陣
地。
受此震撼性降價推動，新⼀代  AI 搜尋巨頭  Perplexity 宣布⽴即在其全新的
「 Effort Mode 」中將  GPT-6 Sol 設為預設推論模型。這標誌著  OpenAI 在開源
陣營（ DeepSeek 、 Qwen ）與  Google Gemini 降價夾擊下，⾸次在旗艦世代發動
全⾯反攻。
但就在同⼀天， Anthropic 推出  Claude Opus 5.5 ， input ∕ output 價格為  US$4 ∕
US$20 ，每百萬  tokens ，較  Opus 5 低  20% 。公司稱執⾏成本較前代低  40% ，成
本約 Opus 5 的 1/3 ，並稱其在軟體開發  benchmark 勝過  GPT-5.6 Sol （雖然與

GPT-5.6 Sol 同價，但卻明顯⾼於 GPT-6 Sol 的半價輸⼊ US$2/ 輸出 US$10 ）；同時
宣稱越界逃逸傾向較  Opus 5 或  Mythos 5.1 低約  85% 。模型已上  AWS 、 Google
Cloud 與  Azure ； Sonnet 5.5 、 Haiku 5.5 預計數週內推出。 benchmark 、安全與成
本仍是公司⼝徑，需等獨⽴原始測試。
付費訂閱客戶可分享閉源，開源⼤語⾔模型價格開打，有贏家，輸家嗎？及我
們 Outside the box non consensus thinking ，建議及⾵險
Subscribed
Who will be the winners ？
全球推論流量聚合⿓頭與終端  AI 應⽤商（ Perplexity 、 Cursor 、 Replit ）：降價
幅度達  50% ⾄  80% ，使下游應⽤商在不增加預算的前提下將智能⽔平躍升⾄
GPT-6 級別，⼤幅改善下游單元經濟效益（ Unit Economics ）。

Amazon AWS 、 Google Cloud 、 Microsoft Azure ：  取得同步分銷流量推理引
擎、 KV-cache 、低精度運算、 HBM 與⾼速網路供應商受惠於更低每任務成本
帶來的需求彈性。模型治理、紅隊測試與可觀測性廠商亦受惠於⾼階模型擴⼤
⾄資安與⽣命科學⽤途。
AI 算⼒出租外溢雲公司：⼤語⾔模型巨頭  Anthropic 及  OpenAI 要靠著不斷的
增加租⽤⾼階算⼒來降本增效，這讓 AI 數據中⼼算⼒公司不斷拉⾼每 GW 年度
算⼒營收，最近外溢雲  Nebius 就陸續調⾼其 H100 每⼩時租⽤算⼒達 16.9% ，
B300 調⾼達 21% ， CPU 調⾼ 25% ，存儲記憶體調⾼ 41% 。
⾼能效推論伺服器供應商（台積電  TSMC 、鴻海，緯創、廣達  Quanta ）：超低
Tokens 價格將引爆企業級  API 調⽤量呈數⼗倍爆炸式增⻑，拉動對 AI 推論專⽤
伺服器機櫃的硬體採購需求。
Who will be the losers?

推論輸出定價⾼於  US$10 每百萬 Tokens ，但性能無法顯著拉開差距的中階閉源
模型（ Anthropic Claude Sonnet 5 、 Google Gemini 3.1 Pro ）。在  GPT-6 Sol 每百

### Page 3

萬  Tokens 輸出僅收費  $10.00 的強勢壓制下，⼆線⾼價模型的市場份額⾯臨直
接流失⾵險。
缺乏底層架構優化、純靠補貼燒錢的中⼩型模型團隊：在  OpenAI 憑藉萬卡級
推論集群實現規模降價後，中⼩模型初創企業的價格防線被徹底擊穿。
Our outside the box non-consensus thinking
市場可能將這次降價視為  OpenAI ⾯對  Anthropic 及 DeepSeek 的被動防禦性降
價。⾮共識深度洞察在於，這是  OpenAI 憑藉龐⼤資本在推論端發動的存量清
洗與開發者圈地戰。此前的  GPT-6 Astra 定位過⾼（每百萬輸出 Tokens 50 美
元），使得⼤量企業因成本顧慮轉投開源或混合部署；如今  OpenAI 將接近
Astra 能⼒的  GPT-6 Sol 壓到  $10 、 GPT-6 Luna 壓到  $0.50 ，實質上抹平了企業
⾃建開源集群的成本優勢。如果企業調⽤  OpenAI 商業  API 的綜合成本低於⾃

購  GPU 機櫃與維護⼈員⼯資，企業將迅速放棄私有化部署轉向全託管  API 。這
是在為其後續萬億美元估值的  ARR 爆發進⾏築底鎖客。
但如果價格降  50% 、擴⼤ AI 推理算⼒成本降  50% ，⽑利率不變，但 Tokens 使⽤
數要遠超過倍增才能有增量成⻑。因此真正的競爭武器可能不是低價，⽽是以
部分效率紅利換量、同時擴⼤利潤池；但前提是執⾏成本涵蓋相同品質、相同
延遲與完整安全成本。
Our advises and risks to our analysis
⽬前看來中國⼤陸開源模型，跟美國閉源模型的每百萬  Tokens 價格戰尚未停
歇，這肯定會抵銷  Tokens 使⽤增量所帶來的營收增⻑，也可能會影響未來
Anthropic 及 OpenAI 上市後的財務狀況及估值，但另⼀⽅⾯來看，⽬前看起來
AI 算⼒出租及雲服務公司每 GW 創收能⼒還算穩定，在⼿訂單數倍於未來 4 年營
收累積，雖然在⼿訂單有許多重複下單，也取決於⼤語⾔模型公司是否繼續創
新，但⽬前情況仍相對穩定， AI 數據中⼼基礎建設及半導體產業供應鏈相對受

考，並⾮投資建議，個⼈應審慎評估⾵險，如因此造成任何損失，本⼈不負任
何擔保責任 ; We are here to provide our professional opinions on company and
industry analysis but not the investment advice. The use of the information contained
in this material is at your own risk. We make no guarantees and assume no
responsibility or liability for any information on the report.
Invite your friends and earn rewards
If you enjoy Andrew Lu on global semis and techs, share it with your friends and
earn rewards when they subscribe.

### Page 4

Invite Friends

Like
 Comment
 Restack

© 2026 Andrew Lu
548 Market Street PMB 72296, San Francisco, CA 94104
Unsubscribe

---
## Document 319: The House View - A broadening tightening cycle (2026-09-24)

Source PDF: all report pdf/The House View - A broadening tightening cycle (2026-09-24).pdf
Report source: DB Research
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

World
— Global growth of 3.3% in 2026 and 3.4% in 2027.
— Rationale: AI investment supports activity despite
the energy shock. Brent is forecast to average
$95/bbl in Q4 2026, with supply normalisation
expected from Q1 2027.
— Key risks: Prolonged Middle East conflict, higher
energy costs and tighter financial conditions.
Upside risk from stronger AI investment and
productivity.
China
— GDP growth lowered to 4.6% in 2026; 2027 remains
4.5%.
— Rationale: Exports and AI support growth, but

consumption, investment and property remain
weak. Fiscal spending is picking up; PBoC rates
remain unchanged.
— Key risks: Delayed fiscal support, further property
weakness and weaker external or AI-related
demand.
Macro views
United States
— 2026 & 2027 GDP growth forecast at 2.2%.
— Rationale: Easy financial conditions, fiscal policy and AI-
driven capex support growth. Unemployment is
expected near 4.1% into year-end; PCE inflation stays
above 3% into 2027.

— Key risks: A larger oil shock weakens real income;
financial conditions tighten; or tighter labour market
and AI productivity surprise on the upside.
Germany
— GDP growth forecast at 1.0% in 2026 and 1.3% in 2027.
— Rationale: Strong H1 offset by loss of purchasing
power caused by the energy shock, although
expansionary fiscal policy continues to provide
tailwinds.
— Key risks: Energy exposure, higher financing costs and
political uncertainty could delay the improvement.

India
— 7.3% y/y GDP for FY27 (prev. 6.7%). FY28 growth
outlook unchanged at 7.2%.
— Rationale: Growth remains strong even as higher oil
prices raise inflation and external-balance sensitivity.
Current policy looks too accommodative, with strong
growth and rising headline inflation (above 6% through
Oct-Dec 2026); 100bps of rate hikes starting in Oct
2026.
— Key risks: Persistently high oil prices, weaker global
demand and tighter domestic financial conditions.

Marion Laboure
thehouseview@list.db.com
Europe
— Euro-area GDP upgraded to 0.8% (prev. 0.5%) in
2026; 1.2% (prev. 1.1%) in 2027. Growth has been
surprisingly resilient in the face of the energy shock.
— Rationale: Consumption, defence and AI spending,
modest fiscal easing and bank lending have
cushioned the energy shock.
— Key risks: A worsening energy shock, higher
borrowing costs and vulnerable public finances
around elections could lift risk premia.

Camilla Siazon Jim Reid September 2026
http://houseview.research.db.com
Research
The House View: Snapshot
A broadening tightening cycle
Deutsche Bank
M
Middle East conflict. Possibility that the war can extend into 2028 pushes Brent forecast to
$130-150/bbl, leading to higher stagflation concerns.
Inflation: Higher energy costs, AI investment, fiscal expansion, and higher defence spending
could require more monetary tightening.
Political and fiscal risks. European elections and fragile public finances could increase risk

premia. US cost-of-living concerns remain important ahead of the midterms.
H
H

### Page 2

The House View: Snapshot (continued)
September 2026
— A broadening tightening cycle, 23 Sep 2026
— 1999 meets 1990, 9 Jun 2026
— The Impact of the Middle East, 10 Mar 2026
Recent
editions
GDP growth (%) Central bank policy rate (%) Key market forecasts
2026F 2027F Current Dec 26F Jun 27F Current Dec 26F Jun 27F
Global 3.3 3.4 US: Federal Funds Rate 3.875 4.125 4.375 US 10Y yield (%) 5.11 4.80 4.75
US 2.2 2.2 Eurozone: Deposit Facility Rate 2.50 2.75 2.75 EUR 10Y yield (%) 3.55 3.20 3.20

The views expressed in this report accurately reflect the personal views of the undersigned lead analyst(s). In addition, the undersigned lead analyst(s) has not and will not
receive any compensation for providing a specific recommendation or view in this report. Marion Laboure / Camilla Siazon / Jim Reid
October 2026 November 2026 December 2026
28 CA Bank of Canada Decision 3 US Midterm Elections 9 CA Bank of Canada Decision
28 US Fed Decision 5 UK Bank of England Decision 9 US Fed Decision

29 EZ ECB Decision 17 UK Bank of England Decision
29-30 JN Bank of Japan Decision 17 EZ ECB Decision
18 JN Bank of Japan Decision
2026 Macro events calendar
Market views
Market
Sentiment
— Risk assets remain resilient despite rate hikes and higher yields.
— The global economy resilient despite geopolitical conflict and energy risks, supported partly by the AI
investment boom.
— Key question is how long activity can withstand high energy costs, rising rates and limited fiscal  space.

Equities
— S&P 500 YE-2026 target: 8000; STOXX 600 YE-2026 target: 670.
— Earnings recovery has broadened beyond technology.
— Overweight mega-cap growth & tech, financials, industrials, and metals & mining.
Rates
— YE-2026: 10Y UST at 4.80%; 10Y Bund at 3.20%.
— Neutral duration after a long-standing bearish bias. Equilibrium rates and term premia remain
structurally higher.
Credit
— YE 2026: $IG 85bp; $HY 315bp; €IG 95bp; €HY 345bp.
— Spreads expected to widen modestly.

— Prefer US over European credit amid stronger US growth and greater ECB risk.
FX
— YE: EUR/USD: 1.17; USD/JPY: 150.
— Neutral EUR/USD with a mild upside bias.
Oil & Gold
— Q4-2026: Brent: $95/bbl; WTI: $90/bbl.
— Supply normalisation expected from Q1 2027, leading Brent to average $74.bbl in 2027.
— Gold: YE-2026  target $4,600/oz. Higher real yields and a more hawkish Fed weigh near term; 2027
average forecast is $5,100/oz.
— Fed: Two 25bp hikes in Dec and Mar, taking policy rate to 4.375%.

— ECB: 25bp hikes in Dec, taking the deposit rate to 2.75%.
— BoJ: Two 25bp hikes in Jan and Apr, bringing policy rate to 1.75%.
— BoE: Two 25bp hikes in Nov and Feb, taking Bank Rate to 4.25%.
— PBoC: Unchanged at 1.40% through 2026.
%
Monetary
Policy

### Page 3

general information purposes only.  The Institute leverages the views, opinions, and research from
Deutsche Bank Research, economists, strategists, and research analysts.  Accordingly, you should assume
that content in this document is based on or was previously published and provided to Deutsche Bank
clients who may have already traded on the basis of it.
Any views or estimates expressed in this material reflect the current views of the author(s) and may differ

from the views and estimates of Deutsche Bank AG, its affiliates, other Deutsche Bank personnel, and other
materials published by Deutsche Bank.  The content in this material is valid as of the date shown on the
first page and may change without notice.  Deutsche Bank has no obligation to provide any updates or
changes to the information herein.
This material should not be used as a basis for trading securities or other financial products and should not

be considered to be a recommendation or individual investment advice for any particular person. It does
not constitute an offer, solicitation, or an invitation by or on behalf of Deutsche Bank to any person to buy

or sell any security or financial instrument. Nothing in this material constitutes investment, legal,
accounting or tax advice.  Deutsche Bank engages in securities transactions, including on a proprietary
basis, and may do so in a manner inconsistent with the views or information expressed in this material.
While information in this material has been obtained from sources believed to be reliable, neither Deutsche
Bank AG nor any of its affiliates makes any representation or warranty, express or implied, as to the

In Germany this information is approved and/or communicated by Deutsche Bank AG Frankfurt, licensed to
carry on banking business and to provide financial services under the supervision of the European Central
Bank (ECB) and the German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (BaFin). In the United Kingdom this
information is approved and/or communicated by Deutsche Bank AG, London Branch, a member of the
London Stock Exchange, authorized by UK’s Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and subject to limited

regulation by the UK’s Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) (under number 150018) and by the PRA. This
information is distributed in Hong Kong by Deutsche Bank AG, Hong Kong Branch, in Korea by Deutsche
Securities Korea Co. and in Singapore by Deutsche Bank AG, Singapore Branch. In Japan this information is
approved and/or distributed by Deutsche Securities Limited, Tokyo Branch. In Australia, retail clients
should obtain a copy of a Product Disclosure Statement (PDS) relating to any financial product referred to

any person for any purpose, in whole or part, without Deutsche Bank’s prior written consent.  You also
agree that you shall not scrape, extract, download, upload, sell or offer for sale any of the content in this
material, and you agree not to use, or cause to be used, any computerized or other manual or automated
program or mechanism, tool, or process, including any scraper or spider robot, to access, extract,
download, scrape, data mine, display, transmit, or publish, any of the content in this material.

Appendix 1
Marion Laboure, Camilla Siazon, Jim Reid | The House View: Snapshot |  September 20263

---
## Document 362: 「106万円の壁」撤廃で変わるパート雇用 ―中小企業は「130万円の壁」と「50人以下企業への波及」にどう備えるか

Source PDF: all report pdf/「106万円の壁」撤廃で変わるパート雇用 ―中小企業は「130万円の壁」と「50人以下企業への波及」にどう備えるか.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

（要旨） 
・2026 年10 月、パートなど短時間労働者に社会保険への加入義務が生じる賃金要件「106 万円の壁」
が撤廃される。後押ししたのは最低賃金の上昇である。 
・撤廃後は、従業員51 人以上の企業での加入義務は「週の所定労働時間が20 時間以上」等によって
判断される。 一方、 企業の大半は従業員50 人以下であり、 そこで働く短時間労働者には、 現時点で
は社会保険への加入義務は課されていない。 
・ 配偶者の扶養から外れる 「130 万円の壁」 はなお残るが、2026 年4 月から130 万円の判定方法が 「労
働契約上の年収」をもとに判定する扱いに変更されている。 
・従業員50 人以下の企業でも、2027 年 10 月から企業規模要件の段階的な引下げが始まる。2035 年
10 月に撤廃され、全ての企業が対象となる。 
・本稿は、一連の見直しの内容や今後のスケジュールを整理し、中小企業が備えるべき5 つのポイン
ト――加入義務が生じる時期の確認、短時間労働者の把握と事業主負担の確認、支援策の活用の検
討、従業員への丁寧な説明、人員構成やシフトの見直しそして業務プロセス改革――を提示する。 
・社会保険加入後も働き続けたいと思える処遇と、増加する人件費を吸収できる生産性をどう実現す
るか。中小企業の対応力が問われている。

1―― 「106 万円の壁」撤廃 
「106 万円の壁」とは、所定内賃金が月額8.8 万円（年収換算で約106 万円）以上になると、パー
トなど短時間労働者に社会保険（厚生年金・健康保険）への加入義務が生じる賃金要件を指す。2025
年6 月に成立した年金制度改正法によって撤廃が決まり、2026 年10 月に施行される。 
後押ししたのは最低賃金の上昇である。2026 年度の地域別最低賃金の答申額は、 全国加重平均で＋
56 円の時給1,177 円と、 前年度の＋66 円に続き大幅な上昇となった。 時給がここまで上がると、 週20
時間働くだけで月8.8 万円を超えてしまうため、賃金要件そのものが形骸化していた。 
2026-09-24 
研究員 
の眼 
「106 万円の壁」撤廃で変わるパート雇用 
 ― 中小企業は「130 万円の壁」と「50 人以下企業への波及」に 
どう備えるか

総合政策研究部 研究理事 政策調査部長 永井 啓夫 
(03)3512-1830  a-nagai@nli-research.co.jp 
ニッセイ基礎研究所

### Page 2

2―― 次の焦点は「130 万円の壁」と「50 人以下企業への波及」 
 一方、 企業の大半は従業員50 人以下であり、 そこで働く短時間労働者には社会保険への加入義務は
課されていない。 こうした短時間労働者にとって最大の関心事は、 配偶者の扶養から外れて年間30 万
円程度となることもある新たな保険料負担が生じる「130 万円の壁」である。 
この壁による就労調整を和らげるため、2026 年4 月から130 万円の判定方法が見直された。 実際の
収入見込みではなく「労働契約上の年収」をもとに判定する扱いに変わり、残業などで一時的に130
万円以上となっても、直ちに扶養を外れることはなくなった。ただし、これは運用上の緩和であり、
壁そのものがなくなったわけではない点には注意がいる。 また、2026 年度の最低賃金の改定によって
東京都と神奈川県の最低賃金がそれぞれ時給1,280 円と1,279 円に引き上げられた。 この水準で週20
時間働く契約では「130 万円の壁」を超過してしまう点にも注意が必要だ。これは、最低賃金の上昇
によって「週20 時間の壁」と「130 万円の壁」が接近しつつあることを意味する。 
さらに、 従業員50 人以下で現時点では対象外でも、 安心はできない。 企業規模要件の段階的な撤廃
が先の年金制度改正法に盛り込まれており、2027 年10 月以降、順次対象は広がっていくのである。

[図表1]企業規模要件の段階的撤廃

3―― 経営者は何を備えるべきか 
それでは、中小企業の経営者は何をしておけばよいか。点検すべきポイントとして次の5 点が挙げ
られる。 
1 点目は、企業規模要件の段階的撤廃によって自社の短時間労働者に加入義務が生じる時期の確認
である。 
2 点目は、 自社にどれだけ短時間労働者がいるかの把握である。 あわせて賃金のおおむね15%程度の
社会保険料の事業主負担の実額を確認しておきたい。 
3 点目は、負担を和らげるキャリアアップ助成金や保険料調整制度といった支援策の活用を検討す
ることである。 
4 点目は、 従業員対応である。 制度が複雑で従業員の不安も大きいだけに、 制度改正の内容に加え、
社会保険加入による手取りへの影響や保障の充実、働き方を変更する場合の選択肢を正確に伝え、従
業員の意向を丁寧に確認することは、それ自体が人材の定着につながる。社会保険加入には将来の年
スケジュール 企業規模要件
現在 51人以上
2027年10月～ 36人以上
2029年10月～ 21人以上
2032年10月～ 11人以上
2035年10月～ 1人以上（撤廃）

### Page 3

4―― 一連の見直しの先にあるもの 
 「106 万円の壁」 撤廃、130 万円の判定緩和そして企業規模要件の段階的撤廃―。 その先に何が待っ
ているのか。 
政府は、7 月に閣議決定した「骨太2026」において、最低賃金の全国平均を1,500 円とする政府目
標の達成時期を「遅くとも2030 年代前半」とした。8 月に閣議決定した「給付付き税額控除」に関す
る政府方針では、 第3 号被保険者制度の見直しや被用者保険の適用拡大の更なる加速の検討について、
次期年金法改正が予定されている2030 年までに結論を得ることを明記した。 
物価高とそれを背景とした最低賃金の上昇が続く中で、人手不足の解消や女性のキャリア形成の促
進、そして、多様化する働き方に中立的な社会保障制度に再設計していく流れは止まらない。 
本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

---
## Document 363: 「今日の一万人」と失われる共通言語－「みんなが知っている」が成立しない社会

Source PDF: all report pdf/「今日の一万人」と失われる共通言語－「みんなが知っている」が成立しない社会.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1――今日の 1 万人の一人

「君は、今日の幸運な１万人の一人なんだよ。 」 
米国のランドール・マンローが手がけるウェブコミック『xkcd』の「Ten Thousand」に登場する
台詞である1。作中では、大人なら誰もが知っていると思われることでも、それを今日初めて知る人
が、アメリカでは毎日約１万人いる、という概算が示される2。ダイエットコークとメントスを使っ
た実験（メントスコーラ）を知らない友人に、知らないことを呆れるのではなく、実際に試すために
スーパーへ行こうと誘う。この「今日の１万人」という考え方は、 「知らないこと」を恥ではなく、
新しい発見をこれから経験できる幸運として捉え直している。 
しかし、この漫画を見ながら思ったことは、そもそも現代社会には、 「大人なら誰もが知っている
こと」が、どれほど残っているのだろうか、ということである。同じ社会に暮らしていても、見てい
るもの、楽しんでいるもの、日々接している話題が違う。自分の周囲では常識になっていることが、
別の場所ではまったく知られていない。それゆえに普通の人が何を知っていて当然と考えてよいの
か、その範囲を共有しにくくなっていると感じるからである。 
そもそも「普通の人（ordinary person） 」なるものが、実体として存在するわけではない。年齢、
性別、職業、居住地、所得、家族構成、趣味嗜好などによって、人々の経験や知識は大きく異なる。
したがって、 「普通の人ならこれくらい知っているはずだ」と想定すること自体、ある種の平均像を
便宜的に作り出しているにすぎない。それでも社会生活のなかでは、私たちは常にそのような「普
通」を仮定してきた。 
会話をする際、相手がどの程度の語彙を知っているのか、どのニュースを見ているのか、どの作品
を知っているのかを一つひとつ確認することはない。 「このくらいなら通じるだろう」という暗黙の
前提に立って話を進めているからである。言い換えれば、重要なのは「普通の人」が本当に存在する
かどうかではなく、社会の構成員のあいだで「普通とはこのあたりだろう」という想定が、どの程度
共有されているかなのである。そして現在、揺らいでいるのは、まさにこの「普通」の共有可能性な
2026‐09-28 
基礎研 
レ タ ー 
「今日の一万人」と失われる共通言語

「みんなが知っている」が成立しない社会

生活研究部 准主任研究員 廣瀬 涼 
(03)3512-1776  hirose@nli-research.co.jp

ニッセイ基礎研究所

### Page 2

2――大衆から分衆へ

かつて、娯楽と情報の流通においては、現在ほど選択肢が多くなく、テレビをはじめとするマスメ
ディアは大きな存在感を持っていた。それは、多くの人が限られた番組や作品に接していたからであ
る。例えば、 『８時だヨ！全員集合』は1981 年 2 月 21 日の放送で、関東地区の世帯視聴率47.6％
を記録している。多くの人が同じコンテンツを消費しているからこそ、翌日その放送内容をフックに
コミュニケーションを取ることができた。ここで重要なことは、好きではなくても、その存在（番
組・コンテンツ）を知っていたことである。歌手のファンではなくてもヒット曲のサビを知ってい
る。ドラマを見ていなくても、主演俳優や決め台詞を知っている。家族がつけているテレビや、翌日
の学校や職場の会話を通じて、積極的には求めていない情報も入ってきた。こうした情報は、その人
の趣味を豊かにするためだけに存在していたのではない。結果として、趣味の違う人同士にも通じる
話題を供給していた。マスメディアによる文化の共有には、消費者自身が意識しない、コミュニケー
ションの基盤をつくる側面があったと考えられる。 
一方、1985 年には、博報堂生活総合研究所編『 「分衆」の誕生』が刊行されている。同書では、画
一的な「大衆」が分化し、人々の価値観や消費行動が細分化・多様化していく「分衆」という考え方
が提示された。その後1990 年代以降のウェブの普及と、その後の動画配信やSNS の拡大は、自分
の好きなものを選ぶための経路をさらに増やした。番組表に合わせなくてもよくなり、周囲が話題に
しているものを知らなくても、自分の関心事だけに時間を費やすことが可能になった。 
最近では、後述する「界隈」のように自身の好きなモノを共通項に緩く人とつながることができる
ようになったこともあり、好きなものを中心に人間関係を構築することが可能となったのである。こ
れは明らかに選択の自由の拡大といえるだろう。しかし、自分に必要な情報のみを選び続けること
は、自分には必要でなくても他者との関係には役立っていた情報に、接する機会を減らしうる。失わ
れつつあるのは、知識そのものというより、 「好きではなくても、なんとなく知っている」という重
なりなのではないだろうか。

3――共通基盤としての常識・教養

ここで、 「知識」 「常識」 「教養」の違いを簡単に整理しておきたい。知識とは、ある事柄について
知っている内容そのものを指す。常識とは、そのなかでも「多くの人が知っているだろう」 「この程
度は知っていて当然だろう」と社会のなかで共有されている知識や前提である。一方、教養とは、単
に多くのことを知っていることではなく、知識を背景や文脈と結びつけて理解し、物事を考えるため
に使えることまで含む。 
本稿が注目したいのは、とりわけ常識や教養が持つ「人と人の会話を支える働き」である。私たち

### Page 3

4――「みんなが知っている」のみんな
．．．
とは

こうした変化を考える手がかりとなるのが、 「界隈」である。界隈とは同じ「好き」や関心、価値
観を持つ人々がSNS 上などで形成している緩やかな集団を指す。したがって、世の中には有象無象
の「界隈」が存在している。前述した通り、かつては、テレビや雑誌といったマスメディアを通じ
て、多くの人々が同じ情報に接し、同じコンテンツを消費していたため、社会全体を覆うような大き

### Page 4

5――なぜ今さらこの話が話題になるのか

このような背景から、筆者がSNS を眺めていてしばしば戸惑うのは、自分にとってはとうの昔に
知っている雑学や画像、エピソードが、あたかも新しい発見であるかのように投稿され、再び大きな
反応を集めていることである。 「なぜ今さらこの話が話題になるのか」 「なぜ大人になるまでこれを知
らなかったのか」と感じてしまうことも少なくない。 
しかし、考えてみれば、この違和感そのものが、本稿で論じてきた変化をよく表している。筆者は
無意識のうちに、 「これはもう多くの人が知っているはずだ」 「この知識は社会のなかで共有済みであ
る」という前提に立っているからである。ところが現在では、同じ情報に出会う時期が人によって大
きく異なる。ある人が10 年前に知ったことを、別の人は今日初めて知る。情報そのものは古くて
も、その人にとっては紛れもなく新しい情報なのである。そしてSNS では、その「個人的な新発

### Page 5

6――「あるある」はどこへいった

こうして考えると、問題となっているのは単なる知識量ではない。人と人とのあいだで「説明しな
くても分かる」と期待できる領域そのものが狭くなっているのである。そして、この変化が最も分か
りやすく表れるものの一つが、 「あるある」ではないだろうか。お笑いコンビ レギュラーの「あるあ
る探検隊」を思い浮かべる人もいるだろう。 「あるある」という笑いの形式は、自分の経験が、他
者も覚えがあると気づくところに成立する。 「説明しなくても、その場面を思い浮かべてもらえる」
という見込みが、この形式を支える重要な条件である。 
筆者が近年のお笑いや短い動画に感じるのは、その見込みの置かれる範囲が、しばしばあらかじめ
限定されていることである。ある世代の学校生活、特定の職業、特定のゲームや推し活など、対象を
絞ることで、該当する人に強い共感を生む。例えば、ある時代の小学生が親しんだゲームや文房具を
話題にすれば、同世代の一部には、説明より先に「懐かしい」という感覚が生まれる。そこでは商品
の知識だけでなく、友人と遊んだ時間や、教室の雰囲気まで呼び戻される。 「知っている」が「あっ
た、あった」に変わり、共感に近い笑いにつながるのである。子ども時代の経験が使いやすい理由の
一つは、学校の制度や生活時間、遊びの選択肢に共通する部分があるからだろう。ただし、地域や家
庭環境による差はあり、現在の子どもたちが皆同じものを消費しているわけでもない。懐かしさが通
じるのは、同じ時期に、似た経験を持った人同士だからである。この意味で、検索は経験の共有を完
全には代替できない。昔の商品を画像で確認すれば、その形は分かる。しかし、それを友人と使った
記憶や、欲しかった気持ちまで、その場で獲得することはできない。 
反対に、直近SNS で広まった動画や音声を使えば、過去ではなく、いま重なっている関心をフッ
クにできる。ただし、それも社会全体の共通知識とは限らず、特定の情報空間で短期間だけ成立する
共通性かもしれない。つまり、 「あるある」が完全になくなったわけではない。むしろ、 「みんなのあ
るある」が「私たちのあるある」へと細分化されたのである。かつては社会の比較的大きな範囲に通
じると期待できた経験が、現在では世代、趣味、職業、界隈ごとの局所的な共通経験へと分かれてい
る。そのため、 「あるある」を成立させるためには、誰に向けた話なのかを以前より明確にする必要
が生じているのである。

### Page 6

「みんなが同じことを知っている社会」から、 「それぞれが違うことを知っている社会」へと移っ
てきた。自分の好きなものを選び、自分に必要な情報だけに接することができるようになったこと
は、消費者にとって自由の拡大である。しかし、その自由の裏側で失われたものもある。それが、
「これくらいは相手も知っているだろう」 「この話ならきっと通じるだろう」と期待できる共通言語
である。 
かつて「常識」や「教養」と呼ばれていたものには、少なくとも「みんながある程度共有している
知識」という性格があった。しかし現在では、それが「みんなの常識」から「私たちの常識」へ、さ
らに言えば「私の常識」へと細分化している。ある界隈では当然の知識でも、別の界隈ではまったく
知られていない。逆に、社会的には広く知られていることであっても、自分が日常的に接している情
報空間のなかに存在しなければ、 「自分にとっては必要のない知識だ」と位置づけることもできる。 
そのため、 「そんなことも知らないのか」と言われたときに、 「それはあなたたちの常識であって、
私の常識ではない」と自己正当化することも可能になった。自分にとって必要のない知識だと考える
ことはできる。しかし、その判断だけで、他者との会話に必要な前提まで不要になるわけではない。
本人が知る必要を感じていなくても、共有されていない前提を、誰かが説明や確認によって補わなけ
ればならないからである。 
すると、会話のたびに「これは知っているか」 「この言葉は通じるか」 「ここから説明した方がよい
か」を確認しなければならなくなる。つまり、知識の多様化は、同時にコミュニケーションの前提確
認にかかるコストを高めるのである。私たちは、自分に必要な知識だけを選べるようになった。その
一方で、他者と話すために必要だった「自分には必要ではないけれど、みんながなんとなく知ってい
ること」を失いつつあるのかもしれない。 
そして、こうして失われつつある「みんなの共通言語」を、別のかたちで取り戻そうとする動き
が、近年の教養ブームや、短時間で効率よく知識を身につけようとする「ファスト教養」への関心に
もつながっているのかもしれない。そこでは、知識を深く学ぶことそのものだけでなく、他者との会
．．．．．
話に参加するために、最低限知っておくべきことを効率よく身につける
．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．
という動機も働いているよう
に思う。何を知っておけば話についていけるのか、何を押さえておけば「知らない人」にならずに済
むのか。共通知識が自然には共有されにくくなったことが、他者との会話に必要な知識を意識的に獲
得しようとする動機の一つになっているのではないだろうか。 
この点では、ファスト映画やネタバレ消費も象徴的である。映画一本を見るには本来、一定の時間
を要する。しかし、あらすじや結末を短時間で把握することで、 「その映画を見た状態」に近づこう
とする消費が存在した。ここでいう「見た状態」とは、作品を十分に味わったという意味だけではな
く、その作品について他者と会話できる程度に内容を知っている状態とも捉えられる。つまり、作品
体験そのものを得るというより、コミュニケーションの場に参加するための前提知識を獲得してい
た、と考えることもできる。 
人は必ずしもコミュニケーションのためだけに教養を身につけるわけではない。しかし、教養に
は、異なる経験や関心を持つ人々のあいだをつなぐ共通言語としての機能がある。知識があること

### Page 7

で、相手の話を理解し、比喩や冗談を共有し、話題に参加できる。つまり教養は、自分のための知識
であると同時に、他者との関係を成立させるための資源でもある。
一見すると自分には不要な情報や経験が、実は異なる趣味や世代、立場の人と会話するための接点
になっていた。ところが現在は、必要のない情報を避け、自分の関心に沿って情報環境を最適化でき
る。その結果、個人にとっては効率的になった一方で、社会全体では「なんとなくみんなが知ってい
る」という領域が痩せていったのである。
「あるある」が通じにくくなったことは、その象徴なのかもしれない。 「みんなのあるある」は、
世代のあるある、職業のあるある、界隈のあるある5へと細分化された。同じ社会に生きていても、
同じものを見て、同じものを知り、同じ経験をしているとは限らない。私たちは、かつてより多くの
情報にアクセスできるようになったにもかかわらず、他者と共有している情報はむしろ少なくなって
いるのかもしれない。だからこそ、冒頭の「今日の１万人」という言葉は、現代ではより重い意味を

持つ。誰もがある場所では物知りであり、別の場所では「今日の１万人」である。そして、誰もが
「今日の１万人」になりうる社会とは、裏を返せば、自分が当たり前だと思っていることを、相手も
当たり前に知っているとは期待できない社会でもある。
そうだとしても、自分の「知らない」を、そのまま社会全体の「知られていない」に置き換えるべ
きではない。たとえば、世間では流行しているものに対して「そんなものは知らない」と言ったり、
あるあるネタを見て「何を言っているのか分からない」と感じたり、誰かに似ている人物として
YouTuberの名前を挙げられて「そんな人は知らない」と返したりする者がいる。もちろん、それ自
体は何もおかしなことではない。むしろ、それこそが人々の関心や情報環境が細分化された「界隈」
や「分衆」の社会がもたらす必然だからである。
重要なのは、自分が知らないことと、それが社会のなかで知られていないことを同一視しないこと
である。ある界隈では、その人物や言葉、出来事が説明不要の常識であり、コミュニケーションの前

提になっていることもある。しかし、自分がその界隈から離れていればいるほど、そこで共有されて
いる知識や常識は自然には入ってこない。逆に、自分にとって当たり前の知識も、別の界隈にいる人
にはまったく届いていないかもしれない。
つまり、 「自分は知らない」という事実は、多様化した社会において、自分の知っている範囲をそ
．．．．．．．．．．．．
のまま社会全体の標準だと考えないこと
．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．．
が、これまで以上に求められる。知らないこと自体を恥じる
必要はない。しかし、自分が知らないという理由だけで、 「そんなものは普通ではない」 「誰も知らな
い」と判断してしまうこともまた、現代の情報環境にはそぐわないのである。

### Page 8

1 https://xkcd.com/1053/ 
2 「1 万人」という数字そのものの厳密性よりも、ここでは「多くの人にとって既知のことであっても、それを初めて知る
人が毎日一定数存在する」という考え方を示している。 
3 Clark, H. H., & Brennan, S. E. (1991). Grounding in Communication. In L. B. Resnick, J. M. Levine, & S. D. Teasley 
(Eds.), Perspectives on Socially Shared Cognition, 127–149. American Psychological Association. 
4 この構造は、 楽しい発見に限られない。 過去に問題となった言動が再び広がり、 初めて知った人によって、 新たな問題であ
るかのように批判されることも起こりうる。元の投稿日時や、その後の説明、訂正、対応が切り離されれば、 「出来事が起
きた時間」と「自分が知った時間」は混同されやすくなる。その際、批判する一人ひとりは初めて反応しているつもりで
も、 批判される側には、 それが繰り返し積み重なる。 個人の認識のなかでは一回の反応でも、 対象となる人の生活のなかで
は、終わったはずの出来事が何度も現在に戻ってくるのである。 
5 かつてのネット文化を象徴する言葉に、 「ググレカス」がある。自分で検索して調べるよう求める、相手を侮辱する表現で
あり、2007 年の時点でも、 その言葉を用いた議論が見られる。この言葉に表れているのは、 「質問する前に、 自分で調べる
べきだ」という規範である。そこでは、知らないことだけでなく、調べる手間を他人に負わせることが問題にされる。他
方、趣味の集団では、知識の豊富さが参加歴や熱意の証明となり、知らないと認めることが、自分の立場を弱くする場合
もある。 
一方で、 界隈の常識とされる知識を持っていないことについて、 「知らなくて何が悪い」 と考える人もいる。 知らなくて
「何が悪い」という主張には、もちろん一理ある。何かを好きになるために、試験があるわけでも、一定量の知識を身に
つけなければならないわけでもない。 昨日好きになった人も、10 年前から好きな人も、 「好き」 と感じること自体は本人の
自由である。しかし、界隈の内部には、その対象を長年追いかけ、多くの時間やお金を使い、歴史や細かな文脈まで蓄積
してきた人もいる。そうした人たちにとって、知識は単なる情報ではない。それは、その対象にどれだけ関心を向け、ど
れだけ時間を費やしてきたのかを示す、ある種のコミットメントの証でもある。そのため、基本的なことをほとんど知ら
ない人が同じように 「好き」 「ファンだ」と名乗ると、 「好きならそれくらい知っているはずだ」 「その程度で好きと言って
ほしくない」という感情が生まれることがある。 
本人としては、 身近な仲間やフォロワーに向けて発信したつもりでも、SNS に投稿した時点で、 その内容は原理的には不
特定多数に開かれている。つまり、界隈の内部だけで通じるつもりだった発言が、文脈を共有していない人や、逆にその
界隈に長くいる古参者の目にも触れる。 
その結果、 知識不足や理解の浅さが露呈するような投稿が、 引用やスクリーンショットによって拡散され、 「そんなこと
も知らないのか」と批判の対象になることがある。とりわけ古参者から見れば、初歩的な知識を欠いたまま断定的に語っ
ているように映り、晒し上げるような形で叩かれることも少なくない。 
ここで衝突しているのは、 「好きになるのに資格はいらない」という論理と、 「好きならば、それに見合った知識を持っ
ているべきだ」 という論理である。 前者にとって 「好き」 は本人の感情であり、 他人がその資格を審査するものではない。
後者にとっては、知識や経験の蓄積まで含めて「好き」なのであり、それをほとんど持たない人と同じカテゴリーで括ら
れることに違和感がある。つまり、界隈では知識が単なる教養ではなく、時として「その界隈の一員であることを証明す
る資格」のように機能する。知識は、会話を成立させる共通の土台である一方、誰をその集団の一員と認めるかを区別す
る基準にもなるからだ。だからこそ、 「知らなくて何が悪い」 と「好きなら知っているべきだ」のあいだに摩擦が生じるの
である。 
また、インターネットには、礼儀や振る舞いに関する「ネチケット」に加え、個々のコミュニティで共有されてきたジ
ャーゴンや定番のネタ、暗黙の文脈がある。もちろん、ネット利用者全員が同じ規範を共有していたわけではないが、少
なくとも特定のコミュニティでは、 「この言い回しは冗談である」 「これは昔からあるネタである」 「この場ではこう振る舞
う」といった文脈が暗黙の了解として存在していた。 
しかし現在では、 そうした蓄積された文脈を知らないまま、 新たにネット空間へ入ってくる人も少なくない。 その結果、
古くから繰り返されてきたネタを文字通りに受け取り、冗談を冗談として理解できなかったり、周囲から「そんなことも
知らないのか」と指摘されれば、 「知らなくて何が悪い」 と反発する。 十分に背景を知らないまま、その界隈の慣習や表現
だけを切り取り、 「おかしい」 「理解できない」と断定すれば、既存の参加者との摩擦が生じやすい。 
TikTok などで流行する音源や振り付けにも、似た構造がみられる。若い利用者が、元ネタや本来の意味を知らないまま
音源だけを切り取り、時には性的あるいは挑発的な含意を持つコンテンツを無邪気に再利用することがある。本人にとっ
ては単なる流行の音源であっても、その背景を知る人から見れば、まったく別の意味を帯びて見える。これは、情報が文
脈から切り離され、 断片として流通しやすくなった現代のネット文化を象徴している。 「知っている人には分かる意味」 と
「初めて触れる人が受け取る意味」が大きくずれる社会になっているのである。

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。

---
## Document 365: 「資本コストや株価を意識した経営」要請から3年の現在地（後編） ～投資家の評価と会社の行動からみる次の課題～

Source PDF: all report pdf/「資本コストや株価を意識した経営」要請から3年の現在地（後編） ～投資家の評価と会社の行動からみる次の課題～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-17
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Research Report

2026 年 9 月 17 日

1/7 
「資本コストや株価を意識した経営」要請から 3 年の現在地（後編） 
～投資家の評価と会社の行動からみる次の課題～ 
 政策調査部 シニア研究員  河谷 善夫

（要旨） 
○ 前編では、東証の「資本コストや株価を意識した経営」要請後のPBR・ROE の変化を確認し、
改善が会社全体に一様に広がったわけではない一方、投資家から取組みの進展を評価された
会社では、とりわけ PBR 改善との対応が比較的明瞭であることを示した。後編では、投資家
が会社の何を評価しているのか、会社が投資家との対話をどのように経営行動に結びつけて
いるのかを分析する。 
○ まず、投資家から取組みの進展を評価された 295 社へのコメントを「資本配分」「事業ポー
トフォリオ改革」 「資本効率経営」 「経営陣のリーダーシップ」 「開示・対話の内容、姿勢」
の 5 カテゴリーに分類し、各カテゴリーの該当・非該当会社で PBR・ROE 改善率を比較した。 
○ その結果、事業ポートフォリオ改革やリーダーシップではPBR 改善率の差が比較的大きい一
方、資本配分や資本効率経営ではROE 改善率の差が大きいなど、評価された取組みによって
改善の現れ方に違いがみられた。開示・対話の内容、姿勢では単独での改善率差は小さく、
個別施策の効果を単純に切り分けることは難しい。 
○ 一方、投資家の評価は複数の取組みにまたがるケースが多い。例えば、事業ポートフォリオ
改革を評価された会社の63.2％は資本効率経営でも評価され、 資本配分を評価された会社の
66.0％も資本効率経営で評価されていた。また、単一カテゴリーのみの会社に比べ、複数カ
テゴリーで評価された会社では PBR・ROE 改善率が高い傾向もみられた。 
○ さらに会社側 682 社へのアンケートをみると、会社が認識する投資家の関心と実際の取組み
との関係は、PBR・ROE によるグループによって異なる。全体では、事業戦略・成長戦略や成
長分野への投資について、投資家の関心率が会社の実施率を大きく上回る一方、株主・投資
家との対話では会社の実施率が関心率を上回っていた。 
○ これらから、資本コストを意識し、開示や対話を行うこと自体にとどまらず、そこで得られ
た示唆を事業ポートフォリオ、資本配分、成長投資など具体的な経営判断に落とし込み、持
続的な収益性と市場評価の向上につなげることが次の課題と考えられる。「対話すること」
から「経営に実装すること」へ、取組みの実効性がより問われている。

### Page 2

2/7 
1. はじめに 
今回、河谷（2026）の分析枠組みを踏襲しつつ、対象をプライム市場からスタンダード市場ま
で広げた2,903 社について、 「資本コストや株価を意識した経営」の現在地を前後編の2 回にわた
って考察している（注1）。前編では、東証要請後の改善が市場全体に一様に広がったわけではな
い一方、投資家から取組みの進展を評価された会社では、とりわけPBR改善との対応が比較的明瞭
であることを示した。ただし、投資家からの評価とPBR改善との因果関係を示すものではない。 
後編となる本稿では、2026 年8 月に東証が公表した、投資家が取組みの進展を評価した会社リ
ストとその評価内容、ならびに会社向けアンケート調査結果を用いて分析を深める。投資家が何
を評価しているのか、会社が投資家との対話をどのように経営行動に結びつけているのかを考察
し、取組みの現在地と今後の課題を確認する。

2. 投資家は何を評価しているのか 
本章の分析では、投資家から取組みの進展を評価された各会社（295 社、注2）に関するコメン
トについて、生成AIを補助的に用いて内容を整理し、投資家の評価観点を「資本配分」 「事業ポー
トフォリオ改革」 「資本効率経営」 「経営陣のリーダーシップ」 「開示・対話の内容、姿勢」の5 つ
のカテゴリーに分類した（以下、本文及び図表では「開示・対話」と略記する。注3）。各カテゴ
リーに該当する会社と該当しない会社について、2023 年2 月末から2026 年 3 月末までのPBR・ROE
改善率を比較したものが資料1 である（注4）。

資料 1 各カテゴリーに該当する会社と該当しない会社のPBRとROEの改善率の比較 
<PBR>

<ROE>

（出所）東証公表資料及びBloombergデータより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 3

3/7 
この比較で注目されるのは、投資家が評価した取組みによって、PBRとROEの改善の現れ方が異
なる点である。事業ポートフォリオ改革や経営陣のリーダーシップではPBR改善率の差が相対的に
大きい一方、資本配分や資本効率経営ではROE改善率の差が大きい。これに対し、開示・対話では
単独での改善率差は小さい。こうした結果からは、投資家が評価する取組みによって、収益性の
改善と市場からの再評価との対応の仕方が異なる傾向がうかがえる。 
もっとも、各会社の評価コメントには複数の取組みが同時に含まれており、この比較から個々
の施策の独立した効果を識別することはできない。そこで次章では、個別の取組みを切り分ける
のではなく、複数の取組みがどのように併せて評価されているかを確認する。

3. 投資家評価にみられる取組みの複合性 
資料 2 左は、各カテゴリーが他のカテゴリーとどの程度重複して評価されているかを示す共起
表である。

資料 2 5 つのカテゴリーの共起表と投資家評価カテゴリー数別PBR・ROEの改善率の比較 
<共起表>     <投資家評価カテゴリー数別PBR・ROEの改善率の比較>

（出所）資料 1 と同じ

例えば、事業ポートフォリオ改革について評価された会社68 社のうち、63.2％にあたる43 社
は資本効率経営についても評価されている。また、資本配分について評価されている188 社のう
ち、66.0％にあたる124 社は資本効率経営でも評価されているということがわかる。リーダーシ
ップが評価されている会社の60.4％が開示・対話でも評価されている。 
次に、単一カテゴリーのみで評価された会社に比べ、複数カテゴリーで評価された会社では、
PBR・ROEの改善率が高い傾向がみられる。また、獲得票数が1 票の会社より、2 票以上の会社の方
が改善率は高い（資料3）。

### Page 4

4/7 
資料 3 評価された投資家数(票数)別PBR・ROEの改善率の比較

（出所）資料 1 と同じ

これらの結果は、投資家が会社の取組みを単一の施策ではなく、複数の経営課題への対応の組
み合わせとして評価していることを示唆している。また、単一カテゴリーのみで評価された会社
より、複数カテゴリーで評価された会社の方がPBR・ROEの改善率は高い傾向にある。 
ただし、この結果を「評価される取組みの数が多いほどPBR・ROEが改善する」と直ちに解釈す
ることには注意が必要である。複数の投資家から評価された会社では、評価コメントに含まれる
論点も増え、結果として該当カテゴリー数が多くなる可能性があるためである。今回のデータだ
けでは、取組みの多様さと投資家からの評価の強さ（票数）の影響を切り分けることはできな
い。したがって、ここでは、複数の取組みを併せて評価された会社では、PBR・ROEの改善率が相
対的に高い傾向がみられると捉えるのが適切であろう。

4.  対話を企業価値向上につなげるための課題 
ここまでは投資家側から評価された会社の特徴をみてきた。次に視点を会社側に移し、東証が
実施した会社向けアンケートから、会社が認識する投資家の関心と実際の取組みとの関係を確認
する。アンケート回答会社は 682 社であり、個社名は示されていないものの、それぞれが属する
PBR・ROEのグループは示されている。第1 グループ 294 社、第2 グループ106 社、第3 グループ
215 社、第4 グループ67 社となっている。 
このアンケートでは、 「投資家の自社の取組みに対する関心事項」と「対話で得られた意見を踏
まえて実施した取組み」に共通する14 項目がある（注5） 。本稿では、そのうち、事業戦略、収益
性、成長投資、資本政策、対話という主要な経営課題をカバーする5 項目を取り上げる。 
資料 4 は、投資家がその事項に対して関心を持っていると認識した会社のうち、実際に同じ事
項について取組みを実施した会社の割合（対応率）である。

### Page 5

5/7 
資料 4 5 つの事項についての対応率の状況

（出所）東証公表データより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

例えば、低PBR・低ROE会社では「既存事業の収益性向上」の対応率が相対的に高い一方、高
PBR・高ROE会社では「成長分野への投資」の対応率が比較的高い。すべての項目で第1 グルー
プ会社の対応率が高いわけではなく、会社が置かれた状況によって投資家との対話を踏まえて
重点を置く取組みも異なっていることがうかがえる。 
次に、同じ5 つの事項について、投資家がその事項に関心を持った割合と、会社が実施した
割合の差（関心率－実施率）を示したのが資料5 である。

資料 5 5 つの事項についての投資家の関心率と会社の実施率の差

（出所）資料 4 と同じ

資料5 からは、全体では、 「事業戦略・成長戦略」で関心率が実施率を44.0％Pt、 「成長分野
への投資」でも35.5％Pt上回る。一方、 「株主・投資家との対話」は-19.2％Ptで、会社の実施
率が関心率を上回っている。これは、株主・投資家との対話自体には会社側が幅広く取り組ん
でいる一方、会社が認識する投資家の関心を踏まえ、事業戦略や成長投資など具体的な経営行
動につなげる余地はなお大きいことを示唆している。

5.  最後に～対話から実装へ 
本シリーズでは、東証が公表したデータを用いて、 「資本コストや株価を意識した経営」の現

### Page 6

6/7 
在地を確認してきた。前編では、東証要請後のPBR・ROEの変化を確認し、改善が会社全体に一
様に広がったわけではない一方、投資家から取組みの進展を評価された会社では、PBR・ROEの
改善も相対的に進んでいることを確認した。特にプライム市場上場会社に限定して比較して
も、PBR1 倍割れからの脱却との対応は比較的明瞭であった。 
後編ではさらに、投資家が評価する内容と会社側の対応をみた。投資家の評価は、資本配
分、事業ポートフォリオ改革、資本効率経営、経営陣のリーダーシップ、開示・対話など複数
の取組みにまたがっており、PBRとROEの改善の現れ方にも違いがみられた。 
一方、会社側アンケートからは、投資家との対話を踏まえた取組みがみられる一方、事業戦
略・成長戦略や成長分野への投資などでは、投資家の関心と会社の実施との間になおギャップ
があることも確認された。 
これらを踏まえると、東証の要請後の次の課題は、資本コストを意識して開示や投資家との
対話を行うことに加え、そこで得られた示唆を具体的な経営判断へ落とし込むことにあると考
えられる。事業ポートフォリオの見直し、資本配分、成長投資などを自社の経営課題に応じて
実行し、それらを持続的な収益性と市場評価の向上につなげられるか。 「対話すること」から
「経営に実装すること」へ、取組みの実効性がこれまで以上に問われるようになっているとい
えよう。 
以 上

【注釈】 
1) 本稿の分析では、前編と同様、2023 年2 月末および2026 年 7 月末の双方で東証プライム市場
またはスタンダード市場に属する会社のうち、分析に必要なPBR・ROEデータを取得できた
2,903 社を対象としている。 
2) 前編で示したとおり、投資家により取組みの進展を評価された会社は300 社であるが、今回の
分析対象会社とした2,903 社に含まれるのは295 社である。 
3) 投資家が各会社について評価したコメントを生成AIに読み込ませ、コメントに共通してみられ
る論点や用語を基に評価観点を整理した。その上で、生成AIによる整理を参考に筆者が「資本
配分」 「事業ポートフォリオ改革」 「資本効率経営」 「経営陣のリーダーシップ」 「開示・対話の
内容、姿勢」の5 カテゴリーを設定し、各コメントについて該当するカテゴリーを分類した。
なお、一つのコメントが複数の論点を含む場合には複数カテゴリーへの該当を認め、生成AIに
よる判定が困難または曖昧なものについては、筆者が原文を確認して最終的に判断した。 
4) なお、各カテゴリーの該当・非該当間の改善率について二群の比率差検定を行ったところ、5％
水準で有意な差は確認されなかった。このため、以下では改善率の違いを傾向として捉えてい
る。 
5) この 2 つの質問に含まれる回答事項は「投資家の自社の取組みに対する関心事項」が15 個、 「対
話で得られた意見を踏まえて実施した取組み」が14 個である。前者の中の「短期的業績見通し」だ
けが後者の回答事項に含まれていない。その他はすべて対応している。

### Page 7

経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。
7/7
【参考文献】
・河谷善夫（2026）「東証の『資本コストや株価を意識した経営』要請から3 年～ROE・PBRの 4 象
限でみるプライム市場企業の変化～」（https://www.dlri.co.jp/report/ld/588240.html）
・河谷善夫（2026）「『資本コストや株価を意識した経営』要請から3 年の現在地（前編）～PBR・
ROEの変化と投資家が評価した会社の特徴～」
（https://www.dlri.co.jp/report/asset/665828.html）

---
## Document 366: 「関西の景気動向」９月号 AI関連需要の拡大と関西の製造業生産（PDF：841KB）

Source PDF: all report pdf/「関西の景気動向」９月号　AI関連需要の拡大と関西の製造業生産（PDF：841KB）.pdf
Report source: JRI
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 9
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1

2026 年９月 
株式会社 日本総合研究所 
調査部 関西経済研究センター 
http://www.jri.co.jp/report/medium/kansai/

１．景気の現状と展望 
 関西の景気は、緩やかな回復基調を維持しつつも、一部に弱い動きがみられる。企業部門では、円安傾向に
加えて、世界的なAI関連需要の拡大を背景に輸出額は増加している。AI関連投資の活発化などを背景に、
鉱工業生産にも持ち直しの動きがみられる。設備投資は、中東情勢の混乱などによる先行き不透明感が意識
されるなかでも、企業の収益計画が高めの水準を維持するもとで拡大基調が続いている。一方、家計部門では、
所得環境の改善が続くものの物価高が重石となり、個人消費の回復ペースは緩慢にとどまっている。 
先行きを展望すると、中東情勢の混乱が長引くなか、資源価格の高止まりが企業活動の重石となる。一方、
世界的な AI 関連需要の拡大が関西の生産や輸出に波及する動きが続き、設備投資の押し上げにもつながる
と見込まれる。個人消費は、持続的な賃上げの動きが下支えに寄与するものの、物価高による下押し圧力が
根強く、回復ペースは引き続き緩慢にとどまる見通しである。

２．個別指標の動き 
（１） 輸出・生産動向 
関西の輸出額（円ベース）は大きく増加している。国・地域別にみると、中国（香港を含む）向けや、アジ
ア（除く中国・香港）向けの伸びが大きく、ともに半導体等電子部品の増加がけん引している。米国向けは振
れを伴いつつも増加傾向にある。品目別にみると、電気機器では半導体等電子部品、一般機械では半導体
等製造装置の増加が顕著にみられ、世界的な AI 関連需要の高まりが押し上げに寄与しているとみられる。金
属及び同製品も先端材料としての需要増や、それに伴う市況の高騰を背景に高水準で推移している。 
一方、輸出を数量面でみると、回復傾向にあるものの、ペースは緩やかにとどまっている。中国向けやアジア
NIEs 向けは低水準での推移が続いているほか、ASEAN 向けも伸び悩んでいる。米国向けは振れを伴いつつ
も、基調としては底堅く推移している。日本銀行が公表している実質輸出指数にも増勢の加速はみられない。

関 西 の 景 気 動 向

100
120
140
160
180
200
220
2022 23 24 25 26
電気機器〈26.3〉
一般機械〈22.4〉
化学製品〈14.0〉
金属及び同製品〈9.3〉
関西の品目別輸出額（円ベース）
（2020年=100)
（年/月）
（資料）大阪税関「近畿圏貿易概況」を基に日本総研作成
（注）日本総研による季節調整値。関西は2府4県。〈 〉内は2025年構成比（％）。
100
120
140
160
180
200
220
2022 23 24 25 26
輸出総額〈100.0〉
対中国（含む香港）〈27.4〉
対アジア（除く中国・香港）〈36.6〉
対米国〈15.5〉
対EU・イギリス〈10.8〉
（資料）大阪税関「近畿圏貿易概況」を基に日本総研作成
（注）日本総研による季節調整値。関西は2府4県。〈 〉内は2025年構成比（％）。
関西の地域別輸出額（円ベース）
（年/月）
(2020年=100)

### Page 2

2 
以上のように、輸出数量の回復が緩慢にとどまる一方、輸出金額が大幅に増加しており、両者の動きに乖離
がみられる。これは、円安による輸出金額の押し上げや、AI 関連需要の拡大を受けた関連財の価格高騰によ
る影響が大きい。

鉱工業生産は、持ち直しの動きが続いている。業種別にみると、半導体製造装置やデータセンター向け設備
など AI 関連需要の裾野の広がりが追い風となっている生産用機械工業や電気・情報通信機械工業、機能性
素材や医薬品の増産を受けた化学工業の上振れが目立つ。一方、電子部品・デバイス工業は依然として低
水準での推移が続いている（関西における電子部品・デバイス生産の低迷について、詳しくは後述のトピックス
を参照）。

（２） 企業収益・設備投資動向 
企業収益を日本銀行大阪支店「短観」（６月調査、全規模・全産業）でみると、関西企業全体の 2026
年度の経常利益（全産業・全規模）は前年度比▲12.9％と、減益見通しとなった。中東情勢の混乱が長
引くなか資源価格の高止まりなどが収益の下押し圧力となっている。もっとも、2025 年度が同＋16.3％と、価
格転嫁の浸透などを背景に想定を大きく上回って着地したため、その反動減という側面も大きい。コロナ禍前と
の比較では、引き続き高めの水準を維持している。

60
80
100
120
140
160
2022 23 24 25 26
輸出数量〈100〉 対中国〈23〉
対米国〈15〉 対アジアNIEs〈24〉
対ASEAN〈17〉
（年/月）
（資料）大阪税関「近畿圏貿易概況」、財務省「貿易統計」を基に日本総研作成
（注）輸出数量は金額を価格指数で実質化。日本総研による季節調整値。
〈 〉内は2025年輸出額構成比（％）。
（2020年=100)
関西の地域別輸出数量
90
100
110
120
130
2022 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
（資料）日本銀行大阪支店「実質輸出入」を基に日本総研作成
（年/月）
（2020年=100）
実質輸出指数

７月ｐ　９月１７日
85
90
95
100
105
110
2022 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
鉱工業生産指数
（年/月）
（2020年=100）
（資料）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」、近畿経済産業局「鉱工業生産動向」を
基に日本総研作成
60
80
100
120
140
2022 23 24 25 26
電気・情報通信機械工業
汎用・生産用・業務用機械工業
化学工業
輸送機械工業
電子部品・デバイス工業
関西の業種別鉱工業生産指数
（年/月）
(2020年=100）
（資料）近畿経済産業局「鉱工業生産動向」を基に日本総研作成

### Page 3

3 
企業が高水準の収益を見込むもとで、関西企業は積極的な設備投資姿勢を維持している。日本銀行大
阪支店「短観」６月調査による2026年度の設備投資計画（全産業・全規模）は前年度比＋9.7％と、過
去（2010～2024 年度）の平均伸び率を上回る水準にある。機械設備や建設資材の価格上昇などから名
目の投資額が押し上げられている点は割り引く必要があるものの、中東情勢の緊迫化が企業の設備投資マイ
ンドに与える影響は今のところ限定的にとどまっている。ソフトウエア投資も前年度比＋5.1％と増勢が続いてお
り、効率化や省力化を目的とした企業の積極的な投資姿勢に変化はみられない。

（３） 雇用・所得動向 
関西の雇用環境は、人手不足を背景に良好な状態が続いている。雇用関連指標をみると、有効求人倍率
は１倍を超え、完全失業率（季節調整値）は 2％台後半の低位で推移している。雇用者数は高めの水準
を保っている。 
所得面をみると、府県別「毎月勤労統計調査」から推計した４～６月期の関西の一人当たり現金給与総
額は前年同期比＋4.3％と、前期に比べてプラス幅が拡大した。今年の春闘における高い賃上げ水準での妥
結や、夏季賞与の増加（大阪府内企業を対象とする調査では前年比＋2.5％）などを反映し、賃金は高め

60
80
100
120
140
160
180
2015 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
全産業
製造業
非製造業
（年度）
（資料）日本銀行大阪支店「短観」を基に日本総研作成
（2015年度=100）
関西企業の経常利益
（計画）
関西企業の設備投資計画修正状況
（全産業・全規模、前年度比）
0
5
10
15
３
月
調
査
６
月
調
査
９
月
調
査
月
調
査
見
込
み(
翌
年
３
月
）
実
績(
翌
年
６
月
）
2026年度
2025年度
2024年度
過去の平均
（2010～
2024年度）
（％）
（資料）日本銀行大阪支店「短観」を基に日本総研作成
（注）設備投資額は、ソフトウェア・研究開発を含み土地投資額を除く。
12

▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
2022 23 24 25 26
一人当たり現金給与総額
雇用者数
消費者物価（逆目盛）
実質雇用者報酬
（資料）総務省「労働力調査」、「消費者物価指数」、厚生労働省、各府県
「毎月勤労統計調査」を基に日本総研作成
（注）雇用者報酬=現金給与総額×雇用者数。一人当たり現金給与総額は
関西各府県の値を常用雇用者数による加重平均。
（年/期）
関西の実質雇用者報酬（前年同期比）
（％）
関西の失業率、有効求人倍率、雇用者数
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
（年/月）
有効求人倍率（左目盛）
（資料）総務省「労働力調査」、厚生労働省「一般職業紹介状況」を基に日本総研作成
（注）有効求人倍率は就業地ベース。完全失業率および雇用者数は、日本総研による季
節調整値。
（倍）
完全失業率（右目盛）
（%）
900
920
940
960
980
1000
2022 23 24 25 26
雇用者数(左目盛）
（万人）

### Page 4

4 
の伸びとなった。雇用者報酬を実質ベースでみると、物
価高による下押し圧力の緩和も相まって、4～６月期
は前年同期比＋３％超の増加となった。もっとも、春
先以降の原油高の影響がラグを伴って波及すると予想
されるほか、中東情勢の混乱が長期化するなか、原油
価格は依然として高水準にある。先行き、物価の伸び
は再び拡大する公算が大きく、実質所得には下押し圧
力が強い状況が続く見込みである。

（４） 消費動向 
関西の小売販売額をみると、スーパー、コンビニエンスストア、百貨店の販売額は緩やかに増加している。 
需要側統計（家計調査）をみると、実質ベースで見た消費支出は、4 月に税負担の軽減が実施された自
動車購入の増加などによる一時的な押し上げがみられたものの、均してみれば、物価高への警戒感が根強いも
とで、回復の勢いは鈍い。 
消費者マインドは、中東情勢の混乱直後の大幅
な悪化から改善傾向にあるものの、依然として悪化
前の水準を回復していない。とりわけ、大幅な落ち込
みがみられた「暮らし向き」や「耐久消費財の買い時
判断」の改善が遅れている。地政学リスクの長期化を
背景とした物価高への根強い警戒感が消費者マイン
ドの重石となっている。 
先行きの個人消費は、賃上げの持続が下支えに
寄与するものの、消費者物価の伸びが再び拡大する
もとで、回復ペースは緩慢にとどまる公算が大きい。

70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
2022 23 24 25 26
百貨店
スーパー
コンビニエンスストア
(2019年=100)
（年/月）
関西の業態別小売販売額
（資料）近畿経済産業局「大型小売店販売状況」を基に日本総研作成
（注）日本総研による季節調整値。販売額は福井県を含む２府5県計、
全店ベース。
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
2022 23 24 25 26
財・サービス支出計
財(商品)
サービス
関西の世帯当たり財・サービス別実質消費支出
（年/月）
（2019年=100）
（資料）総務省「家計調査」、「消費者物価指数」を基に日本総研作成
（注）二人以上の世帯。実質値は全国値の当該品目消費者物価指数
を用いて算出。日本総研による季節調整値。

▲ 2
▲ 1
0
1
2
3
4
5
2022 23 24 25 26
その他
エネルギー
生鮮食品を除く食料
生鮮食品を除く総合
総合
（％）
（年/月）
関西の消費者物価（前年同月比）
（資料）総務省「消費者物価指数」を基に日本総研作成

20
30
40
50
2022 23 24 25 26
消費者態度指数
暮らし向き
収入の増え方
雇用環境
耐久消費財の買い時判断
関西の消費者マインド
（資料）内閣府「消費動向調査」を基に日本総研作成
（注）二人以上の世帯。日本総研による季節調整値。
（年/月）
（指数）

### Page 5

5 
（５）住宅・公共投資動向 
関西の新設住宅着工戸数は、2025 年
４月の法改正を受けて上下に大きく振れた
ものの、 その後は落ち着きを取り戻し、概ね
法改正の影響を受ける前の水準に復してい
る。住宅需要は、金利の上昇や建築費の高
騰などによる下押し圧力が強いものの、将来
の資産価値への期待や、金利・建築費の先
高観を背景とした需要の高まりが下支えとな
り、大幅な落ち込みには至っていない。

2026 年７月の公共工事請負金額は前
年同月比＋15.0％となった。国土強靱化や
インフラ更新需要のほか、建設コストの上昇な
どを背景に、概ね前年を上回るペースで推移
している。

（６）倒産件数 
関西の企業倒産件数は、振れを伴いながらも、均してみるとコロナ禍前を上回る水準で推移している。原材
料費の高騰や人件費の上昇などに加え、金利上昇局面における資金繰りの悪化が懸念される。金利の上昇
によって新たに赤字に陥る中小企業の割合は全国よりも関西の方が大きいとの試算もあり、倒産件数は高止ま
りする可能性が高い。

0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
0.0
0.2
0.4
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
2022 23 24 25 26
（資料）国土交通省「建築着工統計調査報告」を基に日本総研作成
（注）日本総研による季節調整値。
関西の新設住宅着工戸数
合計（右目盛）
（万戸）
（年/月）
貸家
（左目盛）
分譲一戸建（左目盛）
分譲マンション（左目盛）
（万戸）
持家（左目盛）
2025年４月
改正建築物 省エ
ネ法・建築基準法
の施行

0
50
100
150
200
250
300
2018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
合計
製造業
非製造業
関西の企業倒産件数
（件数）
（年/月）
（資料）株式会社東京商工リサーチ「全国企業倒産状況」を基に日本総研作成
22
24
26
28
30
32
2025年 ＋0.25 ＋0.50 ＋0.75 ＋1.00
金利上昇幅
近畿 全国
＋1.77
＋2.57
（資料）株式会社東京商工リサーチ「TSRデータインサイト 中小企業の
金利上昇業績影響調査」(2026年8月）を基に日本総研作成
（注）2025年の決算を基に、企業の推定支払利子率、推定受取利子
率に対し、それぞれ0.25～1.00％ポイントを加えて試算された結果。
2025年決算のデータが得られた中小企業のうち、財務データで有利
子負債が計上された企業（全国約32万社）が対象。
（％）
金利上昇幅別の中小企業の赤字企業率

0
1,000
2,000
3,000
4,000
5,000
4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 1 2 3
2020～2024年度平均
2025年度
2026年度
関西の公共工事請負金額
（億円）
（資料）西日本建設業保証（株）他「公共工事前払金保証統計」を基に
日本総研作成
（月）

### Page 6

6 
（７）観光動向 
関西の外国人延べ宿泊者数は、コロナ禍前を上回って推移している。中国人旅行者の落ち込みが続いてい
るものの、その他の国・地域からの旅行者が全体を下支えしている。もっとも、足元ではその他の国・地域からの
旅行者も伸びが鈍化しており、インバウンド需要は全体として頭打ち感が強い。日本人の延べ宿泊者数につい
ても、宿泊料の上昇などを背景に、足元でコロナ禍前の水準を割り込んでいる。

３．トピック：AI 関連需要の拡大と関西の製造業生産 
AI 関連需要が拡大するなか、関西の半導体製造装置の生産は、振れを伴いながらも均してみれば全国よ
り大きく増加している。加えて、AI 関連需要は非鉄金属やゴム製品など川中、川上分野の素材産業にも広く
波及している。こうした動きを背景に、関連産業では生産能力の増強を目的とした設備投資を活発化させる動
きがみられる。 
一方、関西の電子部品・デバイスの生産は低迷が続いており、持ち直しに転じているわが国全体の動きと乖
離が生じている。この背景には、①公的支援を受けた次世代半導体の大規模生産拠点が九州や東北、中部
などで本格稼働していること、②関西に本社を置く電子部品・デバイス企業であっても製造拠点が関西に集中
しているわけではなく、国内各地に分散していること、があげられる。

▲ 100
▲ 80
▲ 60
▲ 40
▲ 20
0
20
40
60
80
2022 23 24 25 26
日本人
外国人
うち中国人
（年/月）
（％）
（資料）国土交通省「宿泊旅行統計調査」を基に日本総研作成
（注）中国人宿泊者数は、2025年12月までは従業者10人以上の施設が対象、
2026年1月以降は客室数20室以上の施設が対象。2026年1月以降の
値については、集計方法変更に伴う影響が含まれる可能性に留意する必要
がある。
関西の延べ宿泊者数（2019年同月比）

50
100
150
200
250
300
2020 21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 半導体・フラットパネルディスプレイ製造装置
全国 〃
関西 電子部品・デバイス工業
全国 〃
主要AI関連業種の鉱工業生産指数
（年/月）
(2020年=100）
（資料）近畿経済産業局「鉱工業生産動向」を基に日本総研作成
（注）季節調整値の後方３カ月移動平均。
関西企業のAI関連需要拡大に関する声
（資料）近畿経済産業局「管内企業の声からとらえる景況感と今後の
見通し～2026年上期近畿地域の地域経済産業調査結果～」
（2026年7月）を基に日本総研作成
業種 コメント
2026年4～6月期の業況
非鉄金属 AI活用に伴うデータセンター関連需要が増加。
生産用機械器具 AI関連需要が好調。
電気機械器具 AI、半導体分野の引き合いが強い。
ゴム製品 半導体製造装置向け、物流向けが堅調。価格
転嫁も進んだ。
設備投資の内容
電子部品・デバイス・電
子回路、電気機械器
具、生産用機械器具
半導体やAI関連等、今後の成長領域の投資。
窯業・土石製品 半導体関連の能力増強投資。
非鉄金属 データセンター関連の能力増強予定。

### Page 7

7 
ただし、関西の電子部品・デバイス企業は、高付加価値化の源泉となる研究開発機能を関西圏に集約して
いると推測される。実際、関西の電子部品・デバイス・電子回路製造業の就業者数は九州や中部と同水準な
がら、研究者・技術者の割合は関東に次いで高水準となっている。 
したがって、関西の電子部品・デバイス生産の低迷は、競争力の弱さを直ちに意味するものではなく、各社が
生産拠点と研究開発拠点の地域ごとの役割分担を踏まえて、最適な拠点配置を進めた結果と捉えるべきであ
ろう。

0
50
100
150
200
0
5
10
15
20
25
関
東
関
西
中
部
北
海
道
四
国
九
州
甲
信
越
中
国
北
陸
東
北
就業者数（右目盛）
就業者に占める技術者・研究者の割合（左目盛）
（資料）総務省「令和2年国勢調査」を基に日本総研作成
電子部品・デバイス・電子回路製造業の
就業者数と、技術者・研究者が占める割合
（千人）（％）
全国平均（14.6%）
関西に本社を置く主要電子部品・デバイス
企業の主な生産拠点
（資料）各社公表資料を基に日本総研作成
（注）マークは原則として各社ウェブページに掲載されている工場の件数を図示。

### Page 8

8

４．関西の主要経済指標

関西 全国 関西 全国 関西 全国 関西 全国 関西 全国
2024年 ▲ 7.1 ▲ 1.2 5.7 3.6 1.13 1.25 2.8 2.5 ▲ 3.3 ▲ 2.6
2025年 6.4 2.7 0.6 2.8 1.12 1.22 2.7 2.5 ▲ 1.6 ▲ 0.3
2025/ 7～9 月 7.1 5.6 1.2 2.7 1.11 1.21 2.8 2.5 ▲ 3.8 ▲ 0.7
10～12 月 ▲ 1.4 0.9 1.6 3.6 1.09 1.19 2.8 2.5 ▲ 2.1 ▲ 1.0
2026/ 1～3 月 ▲ 3.3 ▲ 1.5 2.1 2.2 1.07 1.18 2.8 2.7 5.0 1.2
4～6 月 ▲ 5.4 ▲ 2.6 3.7 2.4 1.06 1.18 2.9 2.6 4.2 1.7
2025/ 7 月 3.2 4.6 ▲ 1.2 1.6 1.13 1.22 2.8 2.4 ▲ 5.2 ▲ 1.5
8 月 6.2 5.7 2.1 3.3 1.11 1.21 2.8 2.6 ▲ 8.8 ▲ 3.3
9 月 12.0 6.6 2.9 3.4 1.11 1.20 2.7 2.6 2.1 2.2
10 月 ▲ 2.5 0.1 3.9 5.1 1.10 1.19 3.2 2.6 ▲ 4.1 0.1
11 月 0.2 7.2 3.2 4.9 1.09 1.19 2.7 2.4 ▲ 4.3 ▲ 4.2
12 月 ▲ 1.7 ▲ 3.6 ▲ 1.3 1.4 1.09 1.20 2.4 2.4 2.5 0.9
2026/ 1 月 3.0 ▲ 0.8 3.0 3.1 1.08 1.18 2.6 2.6 3.0 0.7
2 月 ▲ 1.0 0.5 0.6 2.1 1.08 1.19 2.8 2.6 2.9 0.4
3 月 ▲ 10.5 ▲ 3.7 2.5 1.5 1.06 1.18 3.0 2.8 8.6 2.4
4 月 2.5 ▲ 1.1 3.7 2.4 1.06 1.18 3.1 2.7 5.5 2.0
5 月 0.6 ▲ 1.1 6.2 5.4 1.06 1.17 2.9 2.6 4.1 ▲ 2.1
6 月 ▲ 20.2 ▲ 5.8 1.2 ▲ 0.6 1.06 1.18 2.8 2.5 3.1 4.9
7 月 ▲ 4.9 ▲ 6.8 2.7 1.8 1.05 1.18 3.0 2.4 4.1 3.9
関西 全国 関西 全国 関西 全国 関西 全国 関西 全国
2024年 ▲ 17.1 ▲ 11.1 ▲ 0.5 ▲ 3.4 ▲ 1.6 5.0 2.8 6.2 1.3 2.1
2025年 5.5 ▲ 5.7 ▲ 1.6 ▲ 6.5 ▲ 2.2 6.6 4.5 3.1 2.6 0.5
2025/ 7～9 月 ▲ 21.5 ▲ 12.8 ▲ 7.1 ▲ 8.9 7.0 8.6 2.0 0.3 ▲ 5.4 ▲ 3.1
10～12 月 ▲ 4.6 ▲ 11.3 9.4 ▲ 2.1 3.8 9.6 7.1 4.9 4.7 2.6
2026/ 1～3 月 ▲ 1.9 ▲ 7.2 ▲ 16.5 ▲ 14.1 ▲ 3.1 17.3 11.2 10.5 6.5 5.8
4～6 月 ▲ 52.5 ▲ 19.7 13.5 20.2 12.9 1.9 21.7 17.0 16.9 15.9
2025/ 8 月 ▲ 10.8 ▲ 13.6 ▲ 0.6 ▲ 9.8 5.5 2.7 0.7 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 9.0 ▲ 5.1
9 月 ▲ 6.0 ▲ 1.9 ▲ 11.3 ▲ 7.3 9.6 12.5 3.9 4.1 ▲ 0.9 3.3
10 月 ▲ 29.0 ▲ 8.8 24.3 3.2 12.0 18.1 4.7 3.6 ▲ 2.0 0.8
11 月 ▲ 45.0 ▲ 22.6 ▲ 4.5 ▲ 8.5 ▲ 13.9 ▲ 6.8 7.6 6.1 4.8 1.4
12 月 77.8 ▲ 1.8 8.7 ▲ 1.3 11.1 14.9 9.0 5.1 12.0 5.4
2026/ 1 月 8.3 6.5 ▲ 11.6 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 3.2 9.1 17.7 16.8 ▲ 2.8 ▲ 2.6
2 月 ▲ 24.5 ▲ 12.3 ▲ 8.8 ▲ 4.9 ▲ 3.3 23.6 3.7 4.0 13.7 10.3
3 月 6.4 ▲ 12.1 ▲ 25.1 ▲ 29.0 ▲ 3.1 17.5 12.9 11.5 10.9 11.0
4 月 ▲ 55.6 ▲ 26.5 4.8 11.4 52.0 4.7 23.4 14.8 14.9 9.9
5 月 ▲ 62.8 ▲ 31.2 27.1 33.9 ▲ 9.2 ▲ 7.7 19.1 16.8 11.9 12.5
6 月 ▲ 25.3 3.7 12.5 18.6 ▲ 16.2 6.2 22.5 19.3 24.0 25.4
7 月 20.1 17.4 17.3 8.2 15.0 2.6 24.5 23.2 29.5 27.9
8 月 - - - - ▲ 5.3 ▲ 2.4 26.6 19.3 35.2 28.0
(資料）総務省、厚生労働省、国土交通省、近畿経済産業局、大阪税関、西日本建設業保証株式会社
(注）関西は２府４県。ただし大型小売店販売額・鉱工業生産指数は福井県を含む２府５県。有効求人倍率・完全失業率を除き、
　 　  前年比増減率（％）。実質家計消費支出は、農林漁家を含む勤労者世帯。大型小売店販売額は全店ベース。
　   　有効求人倍率は就業地ベース、季節調整値。完全失業率は原数値。建築着工面積は民間非居住用。
鉱工業生産指数
建築着工床面積 新設住宅着工戸数 公共工事請負金額 輸出額
実質家計消費支出 大型小売店販売額 有効求人倍率 完全失業率
輸入額

### Page 9

9

「経済・政策情報メールマガジン」、「X（旧 Twitter）」、「YouTube」でも情報を発信しています。

＜メルマガ＞ ＜X（旧Twitter）＞
 ＜YouTube＞

---
## Document 383: 【投研報告】元大晨訊_2026.09.23_地緣風險降溫抑制油價，科技股支撐美股表現

Source PDF: all report pdf/【投研報告】元大晨訊_2026.09.23_地緣風險降溫抑制油價，科技股支撐美股表現.pdf
Report source: Yuanta (每日焦點)
Date: 2026-09-23
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

September 23, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 1

標普500 那斯達克 費半指數 日經225 台灣加權 美元兌台幣
7,764.64   27,244.28 12,689.82 65,018.95 47,800.17   4.961 % 31.700      
+12.7 +104.2 +2.8 +882.7 +892.8 +1.03 bps -0.012
-0.00% +0.45% +2.06% +1.38% +0.17% -1.52%
10年美債

美國與歐洲市場 
 美股市場在 AI 熱潮與地緣風險緩和支撐下走勢分化，那斯達克指數與費半在晶片股強彈帶動下
收高，分別上漲 0.45%與 2.06%，道瓊則受金融股重挫拖累走低，終場下跌 0.36%，標普 500
指數幾乎持平，顯示漲跌互見，VIX 下跌 4.44%，顯示風險偏好維持偏多但內部輪動劇烈。 
 歐洲股市受市場預期美國與伊朗本週針對中東局勢的會談可望取得進展帶動，週二國際油價進
一步下跌；不過在 Meta 新 AI 代理工具熱度降溫下，泛歐 600 指數僅小幅上漲 0.13%。 
亞洲與新興市場 
 日本因適逢敬老節假期，自 9 月 21 日至 9 月 23 日休市三日。 
 台股周二早盤受美股激勵，由聯發科早盤攻上 5,480 元歷史新高，帶領電子股發起攻勢，資金
輪動至 IC 載板與 IC 設計，欣興、景碩、南電亮燈漲停，大盤一度衝上 48,601 點，刷新歷史新
高，但由於逢高調節賣壓，指數漲幅收斂，終場小漲 0.17%至 47,800.17 點。 
 A 股週二漲跌互見，受 Meta AI 代理 Muse 熱銷帶動算力與半導體族群領漲，然連假前觀望及
運輸、貴金屬走弱抑制大盤，上證小漲 0.06%、深證小跌 0.05%、創業板小漲 0.01%。 
商品市場 
 黃金：盤中隨油價續跌後在油價反彈，以及中東風險仍存下跌幅收斂，但美元偏強與美債殖利
率上行提高持有成本，使金價維持區間震盪、缺乏明確方向，終場黃金下跌 0.17%。 
 原油：沙烏地推進東西輸油管線重啟，加上美伊談判進展帶動供給風險溢價降溫，原油持續回
落，終場西德州原油下跌 1.24%，布蘭特原油下跌 1.09%。 
債市與外匯 
 美債：盤初因油價走弱與中東外交進展出現買盤，殖利率一度回落，但隨著 WTI 自日內低點反
彈、聯準會官員釋出偏鷹派言論、2 年期標售與企業債供給壓力浮現，買盤消退，10 年期殖利
率最終小幅走高，曲線略為陡峭。 
 美元：受美債殖利率上行與聯準會官員強調通膨壓力仍存、政策需維持「更具限制性」立場支
撐，終場上漲 0.17%，連續三個交易日上漲。 
資料來源：元大投顧、鉅亨網、Bloomberg 
   國際金融市場焦點

### Page 2

September 23, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 2 
全球金融市場行情

標   的 最新收盤 漲跌幅% 標   的 最新收盤 漲跌幅%
道瓊工業指數 51863.69 -0.36 CRB商品指數 418.70 -0.14 
S&P 500指數 7764.64 -0.00 Comex黃金期貨 4342.70 -0.17 
那斯達克指數 27244.28 0.45 布蘭特原油期貨 99.25 -1.09 
羅素2000指數 2889.92 0.51 西德州原油期貨 94.59 -1.24 
巴西聖保羅指數 187422.92 0.44 CMX銅價期貨 675.95 1.09
墨西哥BOLSA指數 64456.59 1.45 鐵礦砂現貨價 97.50 0.00
道瓊歐洲600指數 642.78 0.13 美國SOFR擔保隔拆利率 3.850 0.00
MSCI歐洲小型股指數 713.31 0.54 美國3月國庫券利率 4.094 1.69
英國金融時報100指數 10708.33 -0.29 美國2年公債殖利率 4.754 0.72
法國巴黎券商公會40指數 8154.91 0.20 美國10年公債殖利率 4.961 1.03
德國法蘭克福DAX指數 25578.85 0.02 美國30年公債殖利率 5.284 -4.17 
土耳其 13198.84 -6.26 德國2年公債殖利率 3.226 1.30
彭博沙烏地阿拉伯指數 1394.02 -0.41 德國10年公債殖利率 3.463 0.50
澳洲標準普爾200指數 8757.84 0.30 義大利10年公債殖利率 4.356 1.90
日經225指數 65018.95 1.38 中國10年公債殖利率 1.675 -0.30 
東証指數 4091.14 -0.07 美國綜合債券ETF (BND) 71.41 0.01
上海證交所綜合指數 3952.13 0.06 美國投資級公司債ETF (LQD) 105.09 0.00
香港恆生指數 25087.75 0.18 美國高收益債ETF (JNK) 94.72 0.01
恆生中國企業指數 8362.60 0.28 新興市場債券ETF (EMB) 93.71 -0.07 
南韓綜合股價指數 7017.91 0.15 美元指數 100.60 0.17
台灣加權指數 47800.17 0.17 歐元兌美元 1.145 -0.14 
新加坡富時海峽時報指數 5723.76 0.86 美元兌日圓 157.39 0.02
泰國曼谷SET指數 1604.44 0.40 澳幣兌美元 0.712 -0.04 
菲律賓馬尼拉指數 5814.56 -0.50 美元兌南非幣 16.18 -0.42 
印尼雅加達指數 6277.04 -1.69 美元兌境外人民幣 6.699 0.09
越南證交所指數 1816.93 0.96 美元兌韓圜 1356.0 -1.32 
印度孟買SENSEX30指數 74529.08 -0.44 美元兌俄羅斯盧布 84.12 1.16
費城半導體指數 12689.82 2.06 美元兌巴西里爾 5.100 -0.18 
NBI生技指數 7165.11 1.67 美元兌台幣 31.700 -1.52 
MSCI全球金屬礦業指數 605.30 1.73 歐元兌台幣 36.31 -0.37 
費城金銀指數 403.65 3.58 日圓兌台幣 0.202 -0.10 
AMEX能源股票指數 2985.50 -2.08 澳幣兌台幣 22.57 -0.15 
DAX 農金企業指數 782.36 0.28 南非幣兌台幣 1.959 0.28
FTSE ET50 綠能指數 588.04 0.72 境外人民幣兌台幣 4.735 -0.19 
* 利率漲跌以基本點(Basis point)計算；資料來源：Bloomberg
美洲股市 原物料
價格
歐洲股市
債券及
貨幣市場
亞洲股市
主要匯價
類股指數
台幣匯價

### Page 3

September 23, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 3 
標普 500 指數 歐洲 600指數
日經 225 指數 台灣加權指數
美國10年期公債殖利率 美國 2年期公債殖利率
紐約油價期貨 黃金期貨
4900
5400
5900
6400
6900
7400
7900
8400
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6
460
510
560
610
660
710
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6
30000
35000
40000
45000
50000
55000
60000
65000
70000
75000
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6
17000
22000
27000
32000
37000
42000
47000
52000
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6
3.5
3.7
3.9
4.1
4.3
4.5
4.7
4.9
5.1
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.0
4.2
4.4
4.6
4.8
5.0
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6
2200
2700
3200
3700
4200
4700
5200
5700
2025/6/6
2025/7/6
2025/8/6
2025/9/6
2025/10/6
2025/11/6
2025/12/6
2026/1/6
2026/2/6
2026/3/6
2026/4/6
2026/5/6
2026/6/6
2026/7/6
2026/8/6
2026/9/6

資料來源：Bloomberg

### Page 4

September 23, 2026 
本報告係無償提供，僅供參考之用。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，所載資料均來自或本諸我們相信之可靠來源，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行及本行之任何董事或受僱人，毋須負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本
身之需求及投資風險 ， 自行承擔一切投資風險並自負盈虧 ， 本行不負任何法律責任 。 本報告受中華民國著作權法保護為元大銀行所有 ， 非經本行同意，
不得將本報告內容之一部或全部加以複製、轉載或散佈。本報告所載述的意見本行可隨時予以更改或撤回，恕不另行通知。 
 4 
近期重要經濟數據

資料來源：Bloomberg 
日期時間 區域 活動紀事 期間 調查(中) 實際 前期
09/23/26 15:15 法國 標普全球法國製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 51      -- 51.1
09/23/26 15:15 法國 標普全球法國服務業採購經理人指數 Sep P 48.3      -- 48
09/23/26 15:15 法國 標普全球法國綜合採購經理人指數 Sep P 48.7      -- 48.5
09/23/26 15:30 德國 標普全球/BME德國製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 54      -- 54.3
09/23/26 16:00 歐元區 標普全球歐元區製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 52.6      -- 52.7
09/23/26 16:30 英國 標普全球英國製造業採購經理人指數 Sep P 51.5      -- 51.7
09/23/26 16:30 英國 標普全球英國服務業採購經理人指數 Sep P 52      -- 52.5
09/23/26 19:00 美國 MBA 貸款申請指數 Sep 18      --      -- -4.1%
09/23/26 21:45 美國 標普全球美國製造業PMI Sep P 53.7      -- 53.9
09/24/26 08:30 日本 標普全球日本採購經理人指數-製造業 Sep P      --      -- 54.9
09/24/26 16:00 德國 IFO企業景氣指數 Sep 89      -- 88.8
09/24/26 20:30 美國 首次申請失業救濟金人數 Sep 19 200k      -- 196k
09/24/26 22:00 美國 新屋銷售 Aug 616k      -- 607k
09/25/26 20:30 美國 耐久財訂單 Aug P -0.3%      -- 1.1%
09/25/26 22:00 美國 密西根大學市場氣氛 Sep F 47.5      -- 47.8
09/29/26 16:30 英國 抵押債許可件數 Aug      --      -- 56.1k
09/29/26 22:00 美國 經濟諮詢委員會消費者信心 Sep 91      -- 89.4
09/30/26 07:50 日本 工業生產(月比) Aug P      --      -- -0.2%
09/30/26 09:30 中國 製造業PMI Sep 50.1      -- 49.8
09/30/26 09:45 中國 瑞霆狗中國採購經理人指數-製造業 Sep      --      -- 51.5
09/30/26 14:00 英國 GDP(季比) 2Q F      --      -- 0.4%
09/30/26 14:00 英國 GDP年比 2Q F      --      -- 1.2%

---
## Document 392: 【趨勢主題】２０２７年美元展望

Source PDF: all report pdf/【趨勢主題】２０２７年美元展望.pdf
Report source: CTBC
Date: 2026-09-22
Pages: 17
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
2027年美元展望
邱日宏
美元
/
歐元
/
日圓
/
英鎊
/
瑞郎
/
台幣
/
2026/9/22
主題報告概述 : 本篇報告將分析 2026年美元現況 ，最終形成
2027年美元看法。以下為本篇報告內容概要:
(1) 匯市現況：美國伊朗戰爭導致通膨疑慮再起，美元走強。
(2) 政治議題：2026年共和黨失去絕對執政對美元的影響。
(3) 期中選後風險因子：財政、貿易戰、美伊戰爭。
(4) 美元基本面：景氣與通膨循環將維持在金髮女孩經濟環境。
(5) 美元技術面：技術面跌破年線，籌碼面偏多但8月轉弱。
(6) 非美匯市: 歐洲政治面利空及日本阻貶為美元提供底部支撐
匯市結論: 美元已從2026年初的降息交易轉向受到美伊戰爭 、

油價上漲及通膨預期升溫支撐 ，但此波強勢更多來自地緣政治
與高利率環境 ，而非美國基本面出現結構性轉強 。期中選舉後 ，
共和黨失去完全執政優勢 ，國會分裂將限制大規模財政擴張 ，
有助抑制通膨與赤字惡化 ，但也降低進一步刺激經濟成長的動
能。展望2027年，美國仍面臨債務上限 、財政協商、貿易政策、
美伊衝突及烏俄戰爭等風險 ，其中地緣政治與油價走勢仍是左
右美元的重要變數 。2027年美元並非進入新一輪強勢多頭週期 ，
而是在高利率支撐下維持區間整理 。2027年美國經濟基準情境
穩健，景氣溫和成長 ，通膨從高檔放緩 。若無重大地緣政治升
級事件，美元指數預期維持97–105區間震盪，並呈現「上有壓
力、下有支撐 」的盤整格局 。當地緣政治升溫時美元偏強 ，當
通膨回落與利率下降時美元偏弱。
資料來源： 中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
2026-2027年美元指數情境(97-105)
4Q26 1Q27 2Q 3Q 4Q
1
✓ 美元指數預期維持
97–105 區間震盪 ，
並呈現 「 上 有 壓 力、

下有支撐 」 的盤整
格局
央行預
防性升息
美國國
會分裂
債務
上限
美債違
約風險
法國
大選
2027全年變數: 伊朗戰爭、烏俄戰爭、貿易戰、各國預算方針、選舉
美歐日
年度預算

### Page 2

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
(1)匯市現況 : 美伊戰爭導致通膨疑慮再起，
美元走強
匯市現況: 2026年美元走勢主要受到美國經濟基本面、Fed貨幣
政策預期、川普政策以及地緣政治風險交互影響。
2026年初，川普重返貿易壁壘政策 、美國就業動能放緩且通膨
趨穩，市場普遍預期降息循環延續 ，使美元維持偏弱整理格局 ，
美元指數於1月27日一度跌至全年低點95.55。期間宣布華許出
任Fed主席的消息曾短暫帶動美元反彈 ，但整體仍未擺脫區間
震盪格局 。然而，2月28日伊朗事件爆發 ，3月9日西德州原油
一度接近每桶 120美元，能源價格上升帶動全球通膨預期升溫 ，
美國降息預期下降。進入3-4月，美國經濟數據進一步展現韌性，
製造業 、消費及投資表現改善 ，Fed季度預測亦同步上修 GDP

成長與通膨展望 。受此影響 ，利率期貨隱含年底前降息預期由
原先降息2碼逐步修正至不降息 ，推動美元於2Q26展開反彈。
同時 ，受油價飆升影響 ，9月Fed季度預測將今年 PCE上修至
3.7%，官員點陣圖亦上修利率路徑 ，市場開始討論通膨壓力可
能迫使Fed重新升息 。匯市焦點亦逐漸轉向新任聯準會主席華
許提出的新貨幣政策框架 。在Fed政策預期持續調整下 ，美元
指數於6月24日升至全年高點101.8，隨後進入高檔盤整格局。
Thematic Report
重點提示
✓ 年初: 數據疲弱，市
場預期降息2碼
✓ 2月爆發伊朗事件油
價飆升
✓ 3-4月美國經濟數據
改善
✓ 6月新任聯準會主席
鷹派框架
✓ 9月油價二度升溫 ，
Fed升息警示通膨壓
力
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9 ，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
2026年12月、2027年6月利率期貨市場隱含升/降息碼數
93
94
95
96
97
98
99
100
101
102
103
-3
-2
-1

0
1
2
3
4
2026/2 2026/3 2026/4 2026/5 2026/6 2026/7 2026/8 2026/9
2026年12月 2027年6月 美元指數(右軸)
2

### Page 3

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
共和黨選情告急 : 川普總統 2024年當選時期支持率平均調查
50.5%至今已跌破 4成。2025年貿易戰加上 2026年伊朗戰爭導
致通膨居高不下 ，成為期中選舉結果的變數之一 。近期美國期
中選舉推測參議院席次預估民主黨47席次對共和黨49席次，本
次期中選關注重點搖擺州為緬因 、阿拉斯加 、密西根、俄亥俄
州。目前4州民調顯示緬因傾向民主黨，阿拉斯加、俄亥俄、密
西根傾向共和黨 ，雖距離選舉仍有一段時間 ，但因共和黨於參
議院持有副總統關鍵一票 ，因此共和黨維持掌握參議院多數機
率略高。本次期中選眾議院改選有19個選區尚未分出政黨傾向 。
然而，以目前川普民調接近新低的趨勢而言 ，多數民調傾向眾

議院由民主黨取得多數。觀察近一年來共和黨取得參/眾議院多
✓ 參議院 : 兩黨勝負未
定
✓ 眾議院 : 民主黨取得
多數機率高
資料來源：Bloomberg、Polymarket ，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
(2)政治議題：2026年共和黨失去絕對執政對
美元的影響(1/3)
Polymarket 共和黨取得參/眾議院機率%
資料來源：RCP、Kalshi ，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
Kalshi預測平台對美國期中選舉結果預測
參議院 眾議院
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2025/9 2025/12 2026/3 2026/6
共和黨取得參議院 共和黨取得眾議院
政府
關門 全面
關稅
油價
飆升
伊朗
戰爭
海峽
封鎖
3
戰爭
通膨

### Page 4

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(2)政治議題：2026年共和黨失去絕對執政對
美元的影響(2/3)
數席次機率下行趨勢可見 ，當川普政策面無法政治上快速解決
問題並且影響民生時，取得參眾議院的機率加速下行。
期中選舉結果對美元影響 ：觀察1970年以來美國期中選舉結束
後一年美元之平均表現。
民主黨主導兩院 ：當民主黨期中選舉後在參眾議院均為多數 ，
美元指數平均下跌 -4.6%，6次有4次為下跌 ，且前一年美元均
下跌。1971、1987及2007年為下跌幅度最大的3年。
1971年尼克森(共和黨)總統宣布停止黃金兌換 ，10%進口附加
關稅，迫使盟友重啟貿易與貨幣談判(最終達成史密松寧協定)，
美元下跌-7.8%。

1987年雷根(共和黨)延續1985年廣場協議後美元貶值趨勢延續 。
雙赤字壓力 、通膨升溫 、利率上升以及外資拋售壓力導致發生
1987年10月19日黑色星期一股市崩盤 ，美元指數當年下跌 -
17.6%(1986年下跌-16.1%)。
2007年布希(共和黨)總統時期面臨雙赤字 、非美利差縮小 ，以
及次貸風暴風險升溫。美元下跌-8.3%(2006年下跌-8.2%)。
✓
民主黨主導兩院時
期事件
:
✓
1971
年停 止黃 金兌
換
✓
1987
年廣 場協 議後
美元貶值趨勢延續
✓
2007
年次 貸風 暴風
險升溫
資料來源：Bloomberg，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
1970年以來美國參、眾議院兩黨主導格局下，
期中選舉後一年美元之平均表現
-4.6% -0.4%
3.6%
民
主
黨
主
導
兩
院
共
和
黨
主
導
兩
院
各
主
導
一
議
院
4

### Page 5

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(2)政治議題：2026年共和黨失去絕對執政對
美元的影響(3/3)
共和黨、民主黨各主導一議院 ：當美國國會進入兩黨各主導一
議院時期，美元指數期中選舉過後一年平均上漲 3.6%，4次有3
次為上漲，且前一年4次美元均為上漲。美國期中選舉若造成國
會由不同政黨掌控 ，通常會限制總統隨意推動大規模擴張性財
政政策與赤字支出 。這類財政節制有助於降低通膨失控風險 ，
進而支撐美元走強。4次國會分裂時段其中較大美元升值趨勢為
1983年雷根(共和黨)時期。 1980年以來聯準會主席保羅伏克爾
採取強力升息手段打擊通膨 ，美國利率保持在相對高檔一段時
間且通膨已逐步受到控制 (從1980年15%降至4%以下)。美元

1983年升值14.9%(1982年升值12.1%)。1983年後，美國經濟
順利擺脫先前的嚴重衰退 ，展開強勁增長 ，市場對美國資產信
心大增，形成所謂強勢美元格局 。美元指數在80年代高點轉折
時期美國實質利率(基準利率-消費者物價指數)已從高檔下降。
小結：2026年期中選舉結果可能形成國會分裂 ，國會分裂長期
有助抑制赤字與通膨 ，因此長期對美元有利 ，但短期可能因預
算協商及債務上限僵局增加政治風險 ，對美元造成波動。2027
年將再度面臨美國債務上限 ，以及美伊地緣政治 、貿易戰的變
數均將牽動實質利率的變化 ，因此接下來將進一步分析選後影
響美元的關鍵因子。
✓
兩黨陷入僵局反而
對美元有利
✓
實質利率下降多半
隨美元趨勢走弱
✓
債務上限
、
地緣政
治
、
貿易戰將牽動
實質利率的變化
資料來源：Bloomberg，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
0
50
100
150
200
-10
0
10
20
30
1971 1981 1991 2001 2011 2021

實質利率(FFR-CPI) 基準利率 美元指數
5
長期而言實質利率與美元呈正向關係

### Page 6

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(3)期中選後風險因子：財政、貿易戰、美伊戰
爭(1/3)
期中選舉過後影響美元的關鍵因子聚焦 財政面 (政府關門事件)、
貿易戰(法院裁定關稅無效後宣布以其他方式課徵關稅)、地緣政
治面(伊朗戰爭觸發油價上揚)。
財政面：8月國會通過持續撥款決議至 12月11日，代表政府關
門的風險將落在11月3日後，但新國會於2027年1月3日任職，
因此很可能選後再延後撥款決議 。除此之外 ，根據兩黨政策中
心預測，2027年9月後可能再度面臨美國債務上限議題 ，屆時
面臨2028年預算審核，參眾議院的分治恐延長達成共識的時間
以及提升美國主權債信評或展望調降風險 。從全國納稅人聯盟

(NTU)情境分析預測，美國聯邦政府收支很可能在2027年2月至
7月觸及債務上限。一旦債務達到法定限額，財政部長將宣布暫
停發行債務期 。在暫停發行債務期間內 ，財政部不得增加受法
定限額約束的債務 ，但到期債務仍可展期 。計算美國財政部透
過動用收入 、現有現金儲備和採取非常規措施 ，真正無法履行
聯邦義務約在2028年2月。然而債務上限和債務違約日(X-Date)
何時達到存在很大的不確定性 。受債務上限約束的債務將於
2027年3月接近法定上限 500億美元以內，之後隨著4月稅收的
到來而暫時下降 ，但若政府財政赤字增加超過原先預測 ，X-
Date將會提前到來。
✓
美國最快
2027
年
2
月達到債務上限
✓
美國政府 最快
2027
年
12
月違約
資料來源：NTU，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
美國債務上限情境(兆美元) 財政部動用非常規措施資金
後債務違約日X-Date情境
法定上限
最早情境
基本情境
最晚情境
X-Date
最早情境
最晚情境
6

### Page 7

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(3)期中選後風險因子：財政、貿易戰、美伊戰
爭(2/3)
美國信評方面 ，惠譽8月將美國信評維持在 AA+評級且展望穩
定，但警告信評下調風險因子如下 ：政府債務佔GDP水準或償
債能力惡化 ，例如未能解決公共支出和收入的平衡 ，或遭受宏
觀金融衝擊 。經濟政策制定可信度下降導致削弱美元儲備貨幣
地位，從而降低政府融資彈性 。惠譽預期 ，美國債務占GDP比
重到2028年可能升至123%，較AA評級國家46.3%的債務比率
中值高出一倍以上 ，因此，美國信評或展望下修的風險有可能
同時伴隨財政惡化或經濟成長放緩 /衰退造成償債能力惡化 。
2027年美國財政議題將繼續面臨逆風 ，共和黨失去完全執政的

環境對財政有利但政治僵局則凸顯債務上限及違約的風險 ，因
此增加美元短期波動風險。
貿易戰：2026年川普貿易戰從對等關稅全面性課徵轉向法律攻
防，預期2027年貿易政策以各國與美國雙邊貿易協定談判為主
軸，以及針對進口品項實施不同的關稅 (川普8月宣布2027年起
對一系列加拿大汽車產品加徵最高達 50%的關稅)。川普貿易政
策不確定性因素延續 ，但本行認為時序進入 2027年貿易戰全面
性惡化的可能性已降低 ，且企業及投資人已對貿易政策不確定
性有一定程度的認知 ，因此傳導至資產價格的影響性亦將有所
降低。
地緣政治 ：地緣政治風險的擴散效應高於上述財政及關稅 。主
因荷姆茲海峽能源輸出量佔全球 20%，油價上漲對通膨的影響
為2027年美元走勢的主要變數 。2月底事件爆發以來原油遠期
曲線現貨溢價 ，代表短期內市場需求強烈或發生供給中斷 。目
前美伊戰爭從熱戰轉向封鎖荷姆茲海峽 。UAE及部分中東國家
已開始運用地面輸油管線避開該管線 ，但伊朗無人機打擊範圍
遠至含蓋紅海 ，倘若事件面惡化 ，紅海運輸除了葉門胡塞武裝

組織干擾，亦有伊朗無人機攻擊風險。目前美伊談判仍未達成
✓
政治僵局凸顯債務
上限及違約風險
，
增加美元短期波動
風險
✓
貿易戰惡化的可能
性已降低
，
進入雙
邊談判格局
✓
中東戰事推升通膨
及利率
7

### Page 8

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(3)期中選後風險因子：財政、貿易戰、美伊戰
爭(3/3)
協議，伊朗拒絕交出高濃縮鈾 ，因此仍無法排除美國運用地面
部隊進行搜索 ，也無法排除伊朗透過遠端無人機攻擊美國在其
他中東國家的軍事或煉油設施 ，美國運用地面部隊恐將地緣政
治風險升級，屆時油價、利率以及通膨預期可能同步向上。
風險變數對2027年美元的影響 ：美國政府債務問題並非全新風
險因子。自1960年以來，美國國會已經累計調整法定債務上限
超過78次。然而，2027年若期中選後國會分裂 ，疊加年底預算
勢必面臨再延後撥款決議 ，屆時政府關門或違約的不確定性因
素將影響經濟成長並且降低聯準會緊縮的可能 。而美國債務上

限再度上調則可能引起信評展望調降的風險 。以美元的角度而
言，有紀律的財政計畫的確可將加強投資人對美元資產的信心 ，
對美元有利 。但短線若因此造成政府關門以及無法在預算達成
協議則對美元短線不利 ，因此定調2027年財政風險因子在分裂
國會環境，對美元而言屬於短空長多。
除了債務風險外 ，貿易戰及美伊戰爭事件的發展最終將反應在
油價及通膨的走勢。從今年油價一度飆升至每桶120美元可見，
短期油價的上漲並未造成短線通膨危機。但不可否認，高油價
✓
若美國運用地面部
隊恐將地緣政治風
險升級
✓
2027
年財 政風 險因
子 在 分 裂 國 會 環 境
，
對美元而言屬於短
空長多
資料來源：Bloomberg，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
20%全球原油輸出受阻
荷姆茲海峽油船通過量
0
20
40
60
80
100
荷姆茲海峽每日通過量
西德州原油價格($/每桶-右軸)
50
55
60
65
70
75
80
85
902/2037
4/2036
6/2035
8/2034

10/2033
12/2032
2/2032
4/2031
6/2030
8/2029
10/2028
12/2027
2/2027
2026/8/18
2026/2/18
近期價格高於遠期價格
西德州原油期貨曲線
現貨
溢價
海運
受阻
8

### Page 9

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(3)期中選後風險因子：財政、貿易戰、美伊戰
爭(3/3)
對消費動能已帶來壓力 ，且美伊戰爭的不確定性因素更進一步
影響消費者信心。對美元而言，2月28日美伊戰爭以來美元指數
區間於97.6-101.8，幅度4.3%。美元與油價的相關性處於正向 ，
因此戰爭變數對美元影響頗深 。就目前趨勢而言 ，若地緣政治
能排除地面軍事行動的變數 ，美元將回歸反應經濟基本面對利
率的影響。市場對於聯準會年底利率政策的看法從 1Q26戰爭前
預期降息至今預期升息近3碼，消費者物價指數年增率則上升約
1%至3.36%(聯準會對於PCE今明兩年的預測為3.7%、2.3%)。
✓
市場預期從
1

Q
26
降
息至今預期升息近
3
碼
✓
消費者物價指數年
增率則上升
1
%
至
3
.
36
%
。
✓
聯準會對
PCE
今明兩
年的預測為
3
.
7
%
、
2
.
3
%
資料來源：Bloomberg，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
美國利率期貨隱含升降息碼數(1碼=0.25%)
-1
0
1
2
3
4
2026/4/3 2026/5/3 2026/6/3 2026/7/3 2026/8/3 2026/9/3
JAN2027  MAR2027
APR2027  JUN2027
3.7
2.3
2.1 2 2
1
2
3
4
2026 2027 2028 2029 LT
2026/3
2026/6
2026/9
資料來源：Fed，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9/17
聯準會預測個人消費支出 PCE & 核心 PCE年增率%
3.4
2.5
2.2
2
2026 2027 2028 2029
9

### Page 10

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(4)美元基本面：景氣與通膨的循環將維持在金
髮女孩經濟環境(1/2)
美元基本面: 上述2027年基本情境定調美國共和黨失去絕對執
政，降低大規模財政擴張風險 ，有助於抑制通膨與赤字擴大 ，
但也難有刺激經濟成長的政策出台 。若債務上限 、地緣政治、
貿易壁壘等議題未惡化 ，預期美國經濟偏向溫和成長 ，通膨可
望有所下降，景氣與通膨的循環將維持在金髮女孩經濟環境 (第
一象限 : 經濟穩健擴張，同時通膨與失業率都維持在低檔 ，既
不過熱、也不陷入衰退)。2027年美國GDP成長預期2%。
✓
美國經濟偏向溫和
成長
，
通膨可望有
所下降
✓
景氣與通膨循環維
持金髮女孩經濟環

境
✓
2027
年美 國
GDP
成
長預期
2
%
。
美國GDP & CPI年增率%
資料來源：Bloomberg，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
通膨上升 ↑ 通膨下降 ↓
經濟
成長
上升
↑
🔥 第二象限
Reflation/Overheating
美元：⬆️ 強勢美元
代表時期：2021年
🌞 第一象限
Goldilocks
美元：➡️ 區間整理
代表時期：2004-06年
經濟
成長
下降
↓
⚠️ 第三象限
Stagflation
美元：⬇️弱勢美元
代表時期：1970年
❄️ 第四象限
Deflation / Recession
美元：⬇️ 弱勢美元
代表時期：2009年
景氣循環與美元的關係
資料來源：中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
2.7
2.1
1.7
2.1 2.1 2.2 2.2 2.2
2.7
3.9
3.3 3.2
2.9
2
2.3 2.2
Q1 26 Q2 26 Q3 26 Q4 26 Q1 27 Q2 27 Q3 27 Q4 27
實質GDP CPI

10

### Page 11

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(4)美元基本面：景氣與通膨循環將維持在金髮
女孩經濟環境(2/2)
若債務上限 、地緣政治 、貿易壁壘等議題未惡化 ，預期美國經
濟偏向溫和成長 ，通膨可望放緩 。觀察中國信託美國景氣動向
指數可見，3個月以來，股市動能略顯放緩，但多數領先指標仍
持續改善 。FactSet 預估2027年標普500企業獲利成長 15%，
且營收成長高達9%，企業獲利面維持高度擴張。樂觀的企業前
景繼續帶動資本支出 ，彭博社統計2027年標普500企業資本支
出年增率仍高達 20%，正向的企業獲利持續傳導到實際經濟 。
2024年以來，實際經濟數據持續改善 ，且今年已回到 0軸以上
擴張區間 。伴隨調查及價格指標持續向上 ，整體景氣動能趨勢

正向。 展望2027年，溫和成長伴隨通膨放緩美元處於盤整偏弱
格局，基本情境內貨幣政策則傾向維持基準利率穩定。
✓
中國信託美國景氣
動向指數領先指標
仍持續改善
✓
預估
2027
年標普
500
企業獲利成長
15
%
，
且營收成長
高達
9
%
✓
整體景氣動能趨勢
正向
註: 分項數據為標準化數據，3個月變動。灰色橫線為年初數據。
資料來源：Bloomberg，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
價格分項
中國信託美國景氣動向指數
實際經濟分項調查分項
11

### Page 12

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(5)美元技術面: 技術面跌破年線，籌碼面偏多
但8月轉弱
美元技術面: 2025年川普對等關稅事件造成美元重挫 ，基準利
率降息3碼從4.5%降至3.75%，美元指數在95.55打底後進入盤
整。技術面於8月跌破年線支撐，美元指數短線陷入空頭格局。
近兩年形成技術面上檔壓力位於 100.35-100.83。搭配市場對
於貨幣政策或許象徵性升息抑制通膨預期 ，可留意美元指數是
否在事件面觸發時突破此上檔壓力區 。籌碼方面，CFTC美元投
機部位動能 (美元部位減歐元部位 )8月創3年半以來新高後回落 ，
短線留意轉折。4Q26貨幣政策路徑調整將影響匯市籌碼面挪移，
尤其在聯準會新任主席華許施政方針的轉變 ，以及美日聯合阻

貶日圓對美元的反饋效應。
✓
美元指數在
95
.
55
打
底後進入盤整
✓
2
年形成技術面上檔
壓力位於
100
.
35
-
100
.
83
✓
籌碼面偏多
，
但
8
月
出現轉折
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9 ，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
美元CFTC期貨投機部位
千口
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/9 ，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
美元指數走勢
-15%
-10%
-5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
年線乖離 美元指數 年線
70
80
90
100
110
120
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
2011 2016 2021 2026
投機部位(美元指數-歐元) 美元指數(右軸)
12

### Page 13

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(6)非美匯市 : 歐洲政治不確定性及日本阻貶為
美元維持區間下緣(1/5)
非美匯市: 除了上述美元自身
變數及關鍵因子外，影響美元
的外部因素主要來自於指數成
分占比大的歐元區 (57.6%)及
日本 (13.6%)。8 月 華 許 在 傑
克森霍爾央行年會表態有意緊
縮調控通膨(目標PCE2%)，但
✓
華許有意緊縮調控
通膨
✓
非美貨幣政策與美
同步
，
利率因素對
美元趨勢影響有限
✓
歐洲政治風險大幅
提升
資料來源: (上) Tradingview，2026/9，(左)Populist，2026/9，中國信託商業銀
行整理。2026/9
歐洲民粹主義選票占比

極左
極左民粹
民粹主義
極右民粹
極右
美元指數成分
由於通膨源自於國際油價飆升 ，因此非美國家貨幣政策多數與
美國同步緊縮，美歐利差2027年趨於穩定。另一方面，日本利
率較其他成熟國家仍偏低 ，貨幣政策正常化路徑大致已充分反
應，日本CPI年增率僅 1.9%，日本政府能源補貼政策平緩國際
能源飆漲所帶來的輸入性通膨壓力 ，非美國家貨幣政策路徑已
相對明確，非美國家利率因素對美元趨勢影響有限。
時序進入4Q26，歐洲政治風險持續升溫，而美日聯合干預匯市
引發新一波動盪。德國薩克森安哈特州於2026年9月6日舉行州
議會選舉 ，反移民的極右翼政黨德國另類選擇黨 AfD以43.8%
的得票率奪下第一大黨 ，此結果震撼德國政治 ，也提振了歐洲
民粹主義。目前歐洲極左、極右加上民粹主義的支持率已升至
13

### Page 14

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(6)非美匯市 : 歐洲政治不確定性及日本阻貶為
美元維持區間下緣(2/5)
✓
歐洲政治生態將進
入高度不穩定與兩
極化的狀態
✓
右翼民粹主義的崛
起對金融市場也並
非絕對利空
✓
法國選後仍需籌組
聯盟
，
留意極左派
勝選風險
資料來源: (左)Bloomberg，2026/9/21，(右)Wiki，中國信託商業銀行整理。
2026/9
義大利民粹政黨執政時期10
年公債殖利率與歐元區利差
30%，歐洲政治生態將進入高度不穩定與兩極化的狀態 。在歐
洲多黨內閣制或雙首長制國家中 ，30%是傳統主流政黨能否順
利執政的關鍵臨界點 。進入2027年，歐盟將有 7國舉行國會選

舉，1月30日德國總統選舉以及4月18日法國總統大選。民粹主
義右翼政黨正在崛起 ，並可能在多個國家大幅增加席次 。每次
選舉結果都將影響各國政治局勢 ，進而反映整個歐洲的政治環
境。然而，右翼民粹主義的崛起對金融市場也並非絕對利空 ，
義大利右翼政黨取得政權後堅持財政紀律 ，向金融市場展現負
責任的治理 ，同時關注移民和文化衝突等社會議題 ，以維繫基
層支持者 。義大利和歐元區 10年期公債利差從義大利右翼政黨
勝選時2.45%至今已收斂至0.83%。此外，許多右翼民粹主義政
黨也緩和了其疑歐立場 ，不再主張退出歐元區或歐盟 。2027年
法國總統大選為首要政治議題。法國極右翼領袖勒龐(Le Pen)與
她所屬的政黨國民聯盟 (RN)近年來調整了政綱 ，已放棄脫歐主
張，並且在財政上淡化激進政策 ，強調財政紀律將遵守歐盟規
範，將財政赤字控制在GDP 3%以下。整體而言，歐洲政治光譜
進入兩極化 ，法國選後議會仍需籌組多數聯盟 ，財政惡化風險
可控，但若極左派梅蘭雄意外勝選，大幅增加政府支出、對富

0
2
4
6
2022 2023 2024 2025
義大利-歐元區
歐元區十年
義大利十年
2027法國選舉民調
RN35%
14

### Page 15

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(6)非美匯市 : 歐洲政治不確定性及日本阻貶為
美元維持區間下緣(3/5)
✓
歐元風險來極左派
政策
✓
市 場 揣 測 基 金
1
.
85
兆美元
GPIF
養 老 基
金進場購買日本公
債
✓
日本干預匯市限制
日圓續貶
資料來源: Nomura，2026/8/31，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
日本政府購買日圓動用金額(兆日圓)
人與資本課稅 、提高薪資與購買力以及調降退休年齡至 60歲的
政策恐將對歐元帶來利空 。整體而言 ，歐洲政治不確定性限制
歐元升值空間，因此有助美元維持區間下緣。
日圓方面，美元兌日圓自6-7月維持在160以上，7月底站上164
後大幅拉回 ，2026年7-8月份日本干預匯市共動用 15.4兆日圓 ，

創2022年以來最高金額 。8月美日聯手干預日圓以來一度回測
160，但9月1日再度從 160.4快速下探至 152.9，兩周日圓升值
幅度近5%。市場揣測日本政府年金投資基金 (GPIF)基金(1.85兆
美元全球最大養老基金)進場購買日本公債。同時，美國財長貝
É douard
Philippe
Marine
Le Pen
Jean-Luc
Mélenchon
財政立場 財政保守 控制財
政赤字
左翼擴
張財政
政府支出 控制支出 中度增加 大幅增加
稅收政策 減稅 部分減稅 加稅
財富稅 反對 中性 強烈支持
退休年齡 65歲 62歲 60歲
EU財政規範 支持 部分支持 較不重視
市場接受度 高 中等 低
對歐元影響 正向 中性偏多 負向
15

### Page 16

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(6)非美匯市 : 歐洲政治不確定性及日本阻貶為
美元維持區間下緣(4/5)
16
✓
日本薪資年增
4
.
7
%
，
創
29
年最大升幅
森特示警日圓空頭交易 ，表示｢掌握不對稱資訊，現在莊家是我
｣。加上日本公布7月名目現金薪資年增4.7%，創29年最大升幅，
日本央行貨幣政策正常化路徑延續 。貝森特支持日本以美國公
債作為抵押 ， 讓 日 本 在 不 出 售 美 國 公 債 的 情 況 下 買 入 日 圓
(FIMA-外國與國際貨幣當局附買回機制 )。目前日本持有 1.1兆
美元公債 ，同時加上美國政府表態支持干預弱勢日圓 ，美日聯
手讓日圓短線貶勢暫時告一段落 。美元兌日圓9月在160再度形

成一波回檔，顯示美日政府力守160整點關卡的決心。目前日本
利率(無擔保隔夜拆款利率)1.25%水準再同時加入日圓隔夜指數交
換利率隱含升息3碼，2027年利率水準與歐美差距仍有一段距離，
實質利率仍為負值，且在成熟市場中偏低。除此之外，高市政府
擴張性財政政策及新增支出計畫恐持續不利日圓 。高市於7月30
日宣布自2027年4月起，將現行8%食品消費稅率降至1%，實施
期限為2年。兩年加總稅收將減少10兆日圓，以2025年總稅收而
言，每年約擴大赤字 -6%。除此之外 ，國防預算計畫每年以
2%GDP編列，預估2027年將達14兆日圓。同時，國家級長期戰
略投資計畫於2040年前投入370兆日圓支持17大戰略領域，整體
財政方針不利日圓中長期表現。
日圓籌碼面顯示，CFTC日圓淨空單回補至多空平衡價位約為155，
125
135
145
155
165
175-200000
-100000
0
100000
200000
2023/1 2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
CFTC日圓投機部位淨空單 美元兌日圓

資料來源: Bloomberg，2026/9/2，中國信託商業銀行整理。2026/9
CFTC投機部位、美元兌日圓

### Page 17

時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之
需求及投資之風險，並就投資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不
涉及特定投資標的之建議。
Thematic Report
重點提示
(6)非美匯市 : 歐洲政治不確定性及日本阻貶為
美元提供底部支撐(5/5)
✓
日圓長期轉為多頭
關鍵因子則將落在
日本政府是否開始
運用政策引導海外
投資資金回流
可視為第一波技術面日圓多方關卡。就基本面而言，政府干預匯
市無法改變貨幣政策與財政政策的路徑。若日本通膨無法帶動日
本央行加速升息，日圓利率水準則無法形成資金流入的誘因。以
日圓長期轉為多頭關鍵因子則將落在日本政府是否開始運用政策
引導海外投資資金回流(日本財務省統計到2025年底，日本在海
外的淨資產達近562兆日圓)，將是長期影響日圓走勢的最有效政
策。
匯市結論: 美元已從2026年初的降息交易轉向受到美伊戰爭、油

價上漲及通膨預期升溫支撐 ，但此波強勢更多來自地緣政治與
高利率環境 ，而非美國基本面出現結構性轉強 。期中選舉後 ，
共和黨失去完全執政優勢 ，國會分裂將限制大規模財政擴張 ，
有助抑制通膨與赤字惡化 ，但也降低進一步刺激經濟成長的動
能。展望2027年，美國仍面臨債務上限 、財政協商、貿易政策
及美伊衝突等風險 ，其中地緣政治與油價走勢仍是左右美元的
重要變數 。外部變數則關注烏俄戰爭是否停戰 、美日聯和干預
日圓與日本2028財年赤字規模 ，以及法國總統大選對歐洲政治
光譜的影響。
整體而言，2027年美元並非進入新一輪強勢多頭週期 ，而是在
高利率支撐下維持區間整理 。2027年美國經濟基準情境穩健 ，
景氣溫和成長 ，通膨從高檔放緩 。若無重大地緣政治升級事件 ，
美元指數預期維持 97-105區間震盪，並呈現「上有壓力、下有
支撐」的盤整格局 。當地緣政治升溫時美元偏強 ，當通膨回落
與利率下降時美元偏弱。
17

---
## Document 412: グラフで見る関西経済（2026年9月）

Source PDF: all report pdf/グラフで見る関西経済（2026年9月）.pdf
Report source: MURC
Date: 2026-09-11
Pages: 14
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

経済調査
グラフで見る関西経済
（2026年9月）
2026年9月11日
調査部 主任研究員
塚田裕昭

### Page 2

1 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
今月の景気判断～持ち直しの動きがみられる
現状
持ち直しの動きがみられる
生産 持ち直しの動きがみられる
輸出 横ばい圏で推移している
設備投資 増加している
雇用 持ち直しの動きがみられる
賃金 改善している
個人消費 持ち直している
住宅投資 横ばい圏で推移している
公共投資 例年を上回る水準となっている
項目
景気全般
【今月のポイント】
 関西経済は、持ち直しの動きがみられる
 6月の生産は3ヵ月連続で前月比プラス
となり、持ち直しの動きがみられる
 7月の実質輸出は2ヵ月ぶりに前月比で
プラスとなった。均してみると横ばい圏で
推移している
 7月の小売販売額は名目で前年比プラス
が続いている。実質ベースでも2ヵ月ぶり
にプラスとなった
 6月の賃金（大阪）は、名目でプラスが続
いている。実質でも7ヵ月連続でプラスと
なった

### Page 3

2 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
80
90
100
110
120
21 22 23 24 25 26
全国 関西
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
生産
6月の鉱工業生産（関西）は前月比＋1.7%と3ヵ月連続でプラスとなり、持ち直しの動きがみられる。化学、
汎用・生産用・業務用機械が減少したものの、電気機械や電子部品・デバイスが増加した。先行きは、米・イ
ランの対立長期化、中国経済減速、熊本地震の影響などから下振れるリスクがある。
（出所）経済産業省「鉱工業指数」
鉱工業生産指数 電子部品・デバイス 電気機械
化学 汎用・生産用・業務用機械
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
50
60
70
80
90
100

110
120
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年=100）
（年、月）
6月
前月比＋1.7%

### Page 4

3 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
輸出
7月の実質輸出（季節調整値）は、前月比＋1.6％の109.9と2ヵ月ぶりに上昇。均してみると横ばい圏で推
移している。当社試算の7月の輸出数量（季節調整値）は2ヵ月ぶりに上昇。先行きについても横ばい圏で
の推移を見込むが、イラン情勢の展開や中国経済の減速から下振れるリスクもある。
実質輸出指数（季節調整値） 輸出数量指数（季節調整値）
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
全国
関西
（年、月）
（出所）日銀大阪支店「実質輸出入」
（2020年＝100）
7月
前月比
＋1.6%
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
21 22 23 24 25 26
全国
関西
（2020年＝100）
（年、月）（出所）内閣府、MURC
（注）関西の数量指数はMURC試算。輸出金額（指数）を輸出価格

指数（全国）で除したもの。
7月
前月比
＋1.0％

### Page 5

4 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
企業景況感（日銀短観）
日銀短観6月調査の業況判断DI（「良い」－「悪い」）は、全産業で＋17ptと3月調査（＋15ｐｔ）から改善。非
製造業は悪化したが、製造業が改善した。業種別に見ると、製造業では、繊維、窯業・土石、鉄鋼などが
改善。非製造業は、建設、不動産、対事業所サービス、対個人サービスなどが悪化した。先行き（9月）に
ついては、製造業、非製造業ともに低下が見込まれている。
短観 業況判断DＩ「全産業」 同 製造業
同 非製造業
-20
-10
0
10
20
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
9 月
+5pt
（出所）日銀大阪支店「短観」 （年、四半期）
6 月
+14pt
先行き
-20
-10
0
10
20
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
（年、四半期）
先行き
9 月
＋11pt
（出所）日銀大阪支店「短観」
6 月
＋19pt
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10

15
20
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西
全国
9月
＋7pt
6月
＋17pt
（出所）日銀大阪支店「短観」 （年、四半期）
先行き

### Page 6

5 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
設備投資（日銀短観）
日銀短観6月調査によると、25年度の設備投資は全産業で前年比＋11.6％となった。26年度は同＋9.8％
と計画されており、業種別では、化学、食料品、輸送用機械、建設、小売、対事業所サービスなどが前年比
増の計画となっている。
設備投資 実績・計画 設備投資額（前年比％）
0.9
6.1
11.6
9.8
6.8
9.2
2.0
15.3
-3.2
3.9
19.1
6.2
-10.0
-5.0
0.0
5.0
10.0
15.0
20.0
25.0
23実績 24実績 25実績 26計画
全産業 製造 非製造
（前年比、％）
（出所）日銀大阪支店「短観」 （年度）
（注）設備投資は、含む土地投資額
今回調査 （
前回調査と
の差異 ） 前回調査
11.6 9.8 （ 5.1 ） 4.7
製造業 2.0 15.3 （10.7 ） 4.6
非製造業 19.1 6.2 （ 1.5 ） 4.7

25 年度
実績
26 年度計画
全産業

### Page 7

6 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
個人消費（小売売上、自動車販売）
7月の小売販売額（名目）は、前年比＋4.7%と増加が続いている。実質値は前年比＋2.4％と2ヵ月ぶりにプ
ラスとなった。
7月の新車販売は、前年比＋5.8%と4ヵ月連続で増加。普通車、小型車、軽自動車のいずれもが前年を上
回った。
小売販売額（6業態計） 新車販売台数（含む軽）
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
7月
＋5.8％
（前年比％）
（年、月）
（出所）日本自動車販売協会連合会「新車販売台数状況」
全国軽自動車協会連合会「軽四輪車新車販売」
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西（名目） 関西（実質） 全国（名目）
（前年比、％）
（年、月）
（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」からMURC試算
（注）百貨店、スーパー、コンビニ、ドラッグストア、家電量販店、ホームセンターの合計

「持家の帰属家賃を除く総合（関西）」で実質化
7月
＋4.7％

### Page 8

7 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
個人消費（業態別）
7月の百貨店売上（大阪）は、前年比＋4.1%と5ヵ月連続でプラスとなった。訪日客需要や高額品販売に
加え、猛暑で夏物商品も好調であった。京阪神百貨店免税売上指数は前年比＋20.9％の2,200.0と5ヵ
月連続でプラスとなった。
百貨店売上高 京阪神百貨店免税売上高
ドラッグストア販売額 家電大型販売店販売額
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
21 22 23 24 25 26
大阪 全国
（出所）日本百貨店協会「百貨店売上高」
（注）店舗調整後前年比
（年、月）
（前年比％）
7月
＋4.1%
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
21 22 23 24 25 26
（出所）日銀大阪支店「百貨店免税売上（関西）」 （年、月）
（2013/4=100）
7月
2,200.0
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
21 22 23 24 25 26

関西 全国
（年、月）
（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」
7月
＋9.9%
（前年比、%）
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
7月
＋ 3.7%
（年、月）
（出所）経済産業省「商業動態統計」
（前年比、%）

### Page 9

8 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
マインド・景況感
8月の消費者態度指数（季節調整値）は34.3と2ヵ月連続で上昇した。
8月の景気ウォッチャー調査（現状判断DI、季節調整値）は前月差1.7pt上昇の46.0となったが、横ばいを
示す50を20ヵ月連続で下回った。夏休み需要やインバウンドが下支えしたものの、物価高による節約志
向や購買慎重姿勢が根強い模様。
（注）関西の季節調整値はMURC試算
（出所）内閣府「消費動向調査」 （出所）内閣府「景気ウォッチャー調査」
消費者態度指数 景気ウォッチャー調査（現状判断）
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
（DI）
（年、月）（年、月）（年、月）
8月
46.0
10
20
30
40
50
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 全国 （年、月）
8月
34.3

### Page 10

9 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
賃金・雇用
6月の大阪の賃金指数は、名目で前年比＋2.7%と前年比プラスが続いている。実質でも同＋0.8％と7ヵ月
連続でプラスとなった。
7月の関西の有効求人倍率は1.07倍と前月とほぼ同水準。求人倍率は全国と比べ低めで推移している。
26年4-6月期の失業率は2.9%と前期から0.1%pt上昇、就業者数は1,102万人と前期から増加した。
名目賃金指数 有効求人倍率（季節調整値）
失業率と就業者数（季節調整値）
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
21 22 23 24 25 26
関西 全国
（出所）厚生労働省「一般職業紹介状況」
（倍）
7月
1.07
（年、月）
950
1,000
1,050
1,100
1,150
0
1
2
3
4
21 22 23 24 25 26
就業者数（関西、右目盛） 完全失業率（関西） 完全失業率（全国）
（万人）（％）
（年、四半期）（出所）総務省「労働力調査」

4-6月期
2.9%
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
22 23 24 25 26
大阪（名目） 大阪（実質）
全国（名目） 全国（実質）
（前年比％）
（年、月）（出所）厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計」
大阪（名目）
6月＋2.7％

### Page 11

10 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
住宅投資
7月の住宅着工は、季調・年率14.0万戸と2ヵ月連続で増加した。このところ総じて横ばい圏で推移している。
前年比では＋17.3％と大幅に増加。前年同月が省エネ基準への適合義務化等に伴う駆け込み需要の反動
で着工水準が低かったことが影響した。先行きは、横ばい圏での推移が見込まれる。
新設住宅着工戸数（季調済年率換算） 新設住宅着工戸数（前年比）
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
21 22 23 24 25 26
（年、月）（注）季調値はMURC試算値
（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」
（万戸） 7月
14.0万戸
-50
-40
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
21 22 23 24 25 26
持家 貸家 給与 分譲 合計
（出所）国土交通省「建築着工統計」
（％）
（年、月）
7月
＋17.3％

### Page 12

11 Mitsubishi UFJ Research and Consulting
7月の公共工事請負金額（年度累計）は、前年比＋
13.2％の1兆608億円。例年より高めの水準となっ
ている。
公共投資
7月の倒産件数は219件と前年から19件減少。均し
てみると、おおむね横ばい圏で推移している。
倒産件数 公共工事請負金額（年度累計）
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
21 22 23 24 25 26
前年差 倒産件数
（件）
（年、月）
（出所）東京商工リサーチ「全国企業倒産状況」
－19件
7月219件
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
14,000
16,000
18,000
20,000
4月5月6月7月8月9月10月11月12月1月2月3月
22年度
23年度
24年度
25年度
26年度
（出所）東日本建設業保証「公共工事前払金保証統計」
（億円）
倒産

### Page 14

〒105-8501
東京都港区虎ノ門5-11-2 オランダヒルズ森タワー

---
## Document 445: 中美AI共振！下半年企业级硬盘（eSSD）需求将激增

Source PDF: all report pdf/中美AI共振！下半年企业级硬盘（eSSD）需求将激增.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

AI 浪潮驱动企业级固态硬盘迎来结构性拐点，北美 Agent AI 与中国 KV 缓存卸载两条主线推
动四季度订单量有望再创新⾼。花旗预计 2027 年 NAND 供需缺⼝将扩⼤⾄ -6.1% ，⾏业定
价权向卖家倾斜， eSSD 价格上⾏压⼒预计将延续⾄四季度。
摘要：
AI 浪潮正在重塑全球存储市场格局，北美与中国两⼤引擎同步发⼒，企业级固态硬盘（ eSSD ）
迎来结构性需求拐点。
据集邦科技（ TrendForce ）数据，过去两周内，美国主要云服务商（ CSP ）已相继上调 eSSD 采
购预测，推动今年四季度 eSSD 订单总量有望超越三季度创下的历史纪录。
据追⻛交易台消息，花旗研究在 9 ⽉ 21 ⽇发布的报告中预测，受持续学习（ continual learning ）
技术普及驱动，2027 年 eSSD 需求将同⽐增⻓ 52.9% ， NAND 供需缺⼝届时将扩⼤⾄ -6.1% 。
需求结构亦发⽣质变：⾼容量、低成本的 QLC （四层单元）产品正加速崛起，与过去主导市场

的⾼性能 TLC 产品并驾⻬驱，标志着 eSSD 的应⽤场景已从 AI 模型训练与推理扩展⾄更⼴泛的 AI
应⽤层。⾏业内⼈⼠表⽰，受 NAND ⼚商加强产能与定价管控影响， eSSD 价格上⾏压⼒预计将
延续⾄四季度。
两⼤需求引擎：北美 Agent AI 与中国 KV 缓存卸载
⾏业专家指出，下半年 eSSD 需求将由两条主线共同驱动 —— 北美的 Agent AI 扩张以及中国的 KV
缓存卸载（ KV cache offloading ）技术应⽤。
在北美，随着 Agent AI 加速普及，⼤规模实时数据检索与缓存需求急剧攀升。 TrendForce 分析
称， Agent AI 在进⾏⾃主决策与⾏动时，需快速访问和存储⼤量上下⽂数据，这将显著提升对⾼
性能 eSSD 的需求。花旗研究亦指出，持续学习技术要求 AI 系统在不断吸收新信息的同时保留历
史数据，由此催⽣对⼤容量存储的持续性需求。
在中国，以 DeepSeek 为代表的 AI 企业正积极推⼴ KV 缓存卸载⽅案 —— 该技术通过将推理过程

中优先级较低的缓存数据从⾼性能内存（ HBM 、 GDDR ）迁移⾄⾼速⼤容量 QLC 固态硬盘，以
降低对昂贵⾼性能内存的依赖，同时提升模型推理效率、压缩整体成本。
QLC 重塑 AI 基础设施架构
此轮需求增⻓的核⼼特征，是 QLC 产品的全⾯崛起。云服务商正积极借助 QLC 兼顾⾼容量与成
本效益，其应⽤场景涵盖向量数据库构建 —— 这是 AI 搜索与推荐系统的核⼼组件。 TrendForce
认为，这⼀转变或将推动 AI 基础设施设计以 QLC 为中⼼进⾏重构，影响范围已超出少数超⼤规
模云⼚商的采购调整。
花旗研究进⼀步指出，基于 QLC 的近 GPU 存储⽅案（ near-GPU storage ）将逐步获得市场认
可，以⽀持 AI 系统在加速器附近实现更⾼效的数据保留与检索。此外， XL Flash 、 HBF 等⾼级存
储解决⽅案以及 CXL 等存储互补技术的需求也将同步上升。
从更⻓周期来看，花旗预测 2027 ⾄ 2028 年⾼密度 eSSD 需求将分别同⽐增⻓ 53% 和 41% ， HDD

向 SSD 的替代需求亦将为⾼密度存储采⽤提供额外⽀撑。消费级 NAND 需求虽因 PC 及移动终端
市场疲软⽽承压，但花旗认为，强劲的企业级 AI 需求⾜以抵消这⼀拖累。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
56 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
供给端收紧， NAND ⼚商定价权增强
需求扩张正驱动 NAND 供需天平加速向卖⽅倾斜。花旗研究预测， 2027 ⾄ 2028 年 NAND 需求分
别同⽐增⻓ 29% 和 33% ，⽽供给增速仅为 21% 和 25%—— 差距来源于存储⼚商普遍将资本开⽀
优先投向 DRAM 及 HBM 产能扩张，对 NAND 的新增投资相对克制，由此形成 2027 年 -6.1% 、
2028 年 -5.5% 的供需缺⼝（ 2026 年预估仅为 -0.8% ）。
TrendForce 亦指出，包括三星电⼦、 SK Hynix 、美光（ Micron ）、铠侠（ Kioxia ）及⻓江存储
（ YMTC ）在内的主要 NAND ⼚商，正在加强对企业市场产能分配与定价的管控， eSSD 进⼀步

涨价的可能性较⾼。
今年⼆季度， eSSD 市场格局⽅⾯，三星电⼦以 141.54 亿美元营收居⾸，市场份额 35.1% ； SK
Hynix 与 Solidigm 合计实现 86.31 亿美元，占⽐ 21.1% ；美光以 69.83 亿美元位列第三，份额
17.1% 。在中国市场，⻓江存储有望凭借 KV 缓存卸载需求的爆发获得份额提升机会。
花旗研究对三星电⼦和 SK Hynix 均维持 " 买⼊ " 评级，认为两者均有望受益于 NAND 基本⾯趋紧及
AI 驱动的结构性存储需求增⻓。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 503: 北交所定期报告：中美举行第八轮经贸磋商达成多项共识，北证50下跌1.70%

Source PDF: all report pdf/北交所定期报告：中美举行第八轮经贸磋商达成多项共识，北证50下跌1.70%.pdf
Report source: 东吴证券
Date: 2026-09-27
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

证券研究报告·北交所报告·北交所定期报告

东吴证券研究所

2026 年 09 月 24 日

相关研究  
《美联储再释加息鹰派信号， 北证50
上涨 2.60%》 
2026-09-23 
《北交所高质量扩容提速，把握后备
优质企业投资机遇  ——北交所新股
专题报告》 
2026-09-23

[Table_Tag]    
[Table_Summary] 
◼ 资本市场新闻：1）商务部：中美第八轮经贸磋商达成多项共识。商务
部召开例行新闻发布会， 新闻发言人何亚东就中美经贸团队在美国纽约
举行的第八轮经贸磋商相关情况作出回应。 何亚东表示， 中美两国经贸
团队在美国举行第八轮经贸磋商， 双方围绕落实已有共识、 对等降税安
排、 建立贸易理事会和投资理事会、 吉隆坡经贸磋商联合安排延期等问
题进行了坦诚、深入、富有建设性的交流，达成多项共识。何亚东还表
示， 何立峰副总理与贝森特财长在中美经贸磋商机制下就人工智能进行
了首次对话。下一步，中方将与美方就后续工作保持密切沟通。 
◼ 行业新闻：1）国家继续实施调控，成品油价格适当调整。9 月 11 日国
内成品油调价后， 受复杂多变的中东地缘局势影响， 国际原油价格冲高
回落，近期再度上涨。 为对冲国际油价上涨带来的压力，国家继续实施
成品油价格调控。按现行机制测算，9 月 24 日 24 时，国内汽、柴油标
准品理论应每吨上调 830 元、800 元，经调控后实际上调 395 元、385
元。中石油、中石化、中海油等炼化企业要做好成品油生产调运，保障
市场供应，落实国家价格政策。各地部门强化市场监管，严查价格违规
行为，维护市场秩序。 
◼ 市场表现：1）行情回顾：2026 年 9 月 24 日，创业板指下跌 2.68%，上
证指数下跌 1.22%，A 股指数下跌 1.22%，沪深 300 下跌 1.73%，科创
50 下跌 2.35%，北证 50 下跌 1.70%。2）北证 A 股表现：截至 2026 年
9 月 24 日，北交所成分股共 347 个，公司平均市值 24.87 亿元，成交额
159.79 亿元，较前一交易日下跌 23.67 亿元。 
◼ 公司公告：暂无 
◼ 今日新股：百瑞吉（证券代码：920201） 
◼ 风险提示：个股盈利不及预期，行业竞争加剧，贸易摩擦加剧，政策不
及预期

### Page 2

2 / 7

内容目录 
1. 资本市场新闻 ................................ ................................ ..4 
2. 行业新闻 ................................ ................................ ......4 
3. 市场表现 ................................ ................................ ......4 
3.1 北交所板块表现............................................................. 4 
3.2 北交所个股表现............................................................. 4 
4. 公司公告 ................................ ................................ ......7 
5. 今日新股 ................................ ................................ ......7 
6. 风险提示 ................................ ................................ ......7

### Page 3

3 / 7

图表目录 
图 1： 市场成交额走势（截至 2026/9/24） ......................................................................................... 5 
图 2： 指数涨跌幅（截至 2026/9/24） ................................................................................................. 5 
图 3： 北交所涨幅前五（截至 2026/9/24） ......................................................................................... 5 
图 4： 北交所跌幅前五（截至 2026/9/24） ......................................................................................... 5 
图 5： 涨幅前五个股所属板块（截至 2026/9/24） ............................................................................. 5

### Page 4

4 / 7 
1. 资本市场新闻 
商务部：中美第八轮经贸磋商达成多项共识 
商务部召开例行新闻发布会， 新闻发言人何亚东就中美经贸团队在美国纽约举行
的第八轮经贸磋商相关情况作出回应。 
何亚东表示， 中美两国经贸团队在美国举行第八轮经贸磋商。 双方以两国元首重
要共识为引领， 秉持相互尊重、 和平共处、 合作共赢的原则， 围绕落实已有经贸磋商
共识、 对等降税安排、 建立贸易理事会和投资理事会、 吉隆坡经贸磋商联合安排延期
等双方共同关注的经贸问题， 进行了坦诚、 深入、 富有建设性的交流， 达成多项共识。
何亚东还表示， 何立峰副总理与贝森特财长作为中美各自牵头人， 在中美经贸磋商机
制下就人工智能进行了首次对话。 下一步， 中方将与美方在中美经贸磋商机制下， 就
后续工作保持密切沟通。 
2. 行业新闻 
国家继续实施调控，成品油价格适当调整 
9 月 11 日国内成品油价格调整以来，中东地缘局势复杂多变，国际市场原油价
格快速上涨后回落，近日又再度冲高。为减缓国际油价上涨对国内的冲击，国家继
续对成品油价格采取调控措施。根据现行价格机制计算，自9 月 24 日 24 时起，国
内汽、柴油（标准品）价格每吨分别应上调 830 元、800 元，调控后实际上调 395
元、385 元。  
中石油、中石化、中海油公司及其他原油加工企业要组织好成品油生产和调运，
确保市场稳定供应， 严格执行国家价格政策。 各地相关部门要加大市场监督检查力
度，严厉查处不执行国家价格政策的行为，维护正常市场秩序。 
3. 市场表现 
3.1 北交所板块表现 
行情回顾：2026 年 9 月 24 日，创业板指下跌 2.68%，上证指数下跌 1.22%，A 股
指数下跌 1.22%，沪深 300 下跌 1.73%，科创 50 下跌 2.35%，北证 50 下跌 1.70%。 
北证 A 股表现：截至 2026 年 9 月 24 日，北交所成分股共 347 个，公司平均市值
24.87 亿元，成交额 159.79 亿元，较前一交易日下跌 23.67 亿元 。 
3.2 北交所个股表现 
个股来看， 收盘上涨的共36 只， 涨幅居前的有百瑞吉、路桥信息、铁拓机械，分别
上涨 331.43%、29.99%、19.35%；跌幅居前的有美德乐、彩客科技、胜业电气，分别下

### Page 5

5 / 7 
跌 4.29%、4.29%、4.27%。

图1：市场成交额走势（截至 2026/9/24）  图2：指数涨跌幅（截至 2026/9/24）

数据来源：ifind，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：ifind，东吴证券研究所

图3：北交所涨幅前五（截至 2026/9/24）  图4：北交所跌幅前五（截至 2026/9/24）

数据来源：ifind，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：ifind，东吴证券研究所

图5：涨幅前五个股所属板块（截至 2026/9/24）

数据来源：ifind，东吴证券研究所

### Page 6

6 / 7 
4. 公司公告 
暂无 
5. 今日新股 
百瑞吉（证券代码：920201） 
常州百瑞吉生物医药股份有限公司于 2026 年 9 月 24 日在北京证券交易所正式挂牌
上市。 本次公开发行822.58 万股， 发行价格为16.77 元/股， 发行市盈率14.99 倍，募集资
金总额约 1.38 亿元。上市首日开盘报 75.00 元，涨幅 347.23%，盘中最高触及 97.00 元，
涨幅一度扩大至 477%。百瑞吉是国家高新技术企业，主营生物医用材料，核心产品为多
场景交联透明质酸钠凝胶与功能性护肤品， 在生物医用修复材料赛道具备技术优势， 总部
位于江苏常州。  
6. 风险提示 
个股盈利不及预期，行业竞争加剧，贸易摩擦加剧，政策不及预期等。

### Page 7

免责及评级说明部分

东吴证券投资评级标准 
投资评级基于分析师对报告发布日后 6 至 12 个月内行业或公司回报潜力相对基准表现
的预期（A 股市场基准为沪深 300 指数，香港市场基准为恒生指数，美国市场基准为标普 
500 指数， 新三板基准指数为三板成指 （针对协议转让标的） 或三板做市指数 （针对做市转
让标的），北交所基准指数为北证 50 指数），具体如下： 
公司投资评级： 
买入：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准在 15%以上； 
增持：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于 5%与 15%之间； 
中性：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于-5%与 5%之间； 
减持：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于-15%与-5%之间； 
卖出：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准在-15%以下。 
行业投资评级： 
增持： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对强于基准 5%以上； 
中性： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对基准-5%与 5%； 
减持： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对弱于基准 5%以上。 
我们在此提醒您， 不同证券研究机构采用不同的评级术语及评级标准。 我们采用的是相
对评级体系， 表示投资的相对比重建议。 投资者买入或者卖出证券的决定应当充分考虑自身
特定状况， 如具体投资目的、 财务状况以及特定需求等， 并完整理解和使用本报告内容， 不
应视本报告为做出投资决策的唯一因素。 
东吴证券研究所 
苏州工业园区星阳街 5 号 
邮政编码：215021 
传真：（0512）62938527 
公司网址： http://www.dwzq.com.cn

---
## Document 568: 希音上市后首份中报：主动消化运费保订单，二季度净利率降至2.1%

Source PDF: all report pdf/希音上市后首份中报：主动消化运费保订单，二季度净利率降至2.1%.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

9 ⽉ 28 ⽇，快时尚跨境电商希⾳发布上市后⾸份中报。
上半年，希⾳净收⼊ 201.34 亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 1% ；总订单量达到 5.49 亿单，同⽐增⻓ 6.4% 。经
调整净利率由 5.6% 降⾄ 2.5% 。
第⼆季度，希⾳净收⼊增⻓ 0.9% ⾄ 110.82 亿美元，订单量增⻓ 7.6% ⾄ 2.98 亿单。过去 12 个⽉活
跃顾客由 2.54 亿增⾄ 2.91 亿。
但增⻓尚未充分转化为利润，⼆季度经营利润下降 66.3% ⾄ 2.35 亿美元，经调整净利率由 6.2%
降⾄ 2.1% 。
同期账⾯净利润增⻓ 247% ⾄ 23.98 亿美元，主要包含 21.89 亿美元的可转换可赎回优先股公允价
值收益。
富瑞估算，希⾳第⼆季度盈利⽐招股书隐含预测区间下限低逾 10% ；履约费⽤ 18.1% 的增幅也⾼
于该⾏预期。
压⼒主要来⾃履约环节。
⼆季度，希⾳履约费⽤由 47.30 亿美元增⾄ 55.87 亿美元，占收⼊⽐例由 43.1% 升⾄ 50.4% 。
公司将履约费⽤上涨归因于订单增加，以及中东地缘冲突推⾼油价和国际运费。

希⾳称，其认为相关成本具有暂时性，因此选择主动吸收部分费⽤，以保持价格稳定和订单增
⻓；剔除相关影响后，第⼆季度经调整净利率与去年同期⼤致相当。
收⼊与订单增速的差距，还受到商城业务占⽐提⾼影响。第⼆季度产品收⼊下降 3.4% ，服务收
⼊增⻓ 44.2% 。商城模式下，希⾳确认的是平台服务收⼊，⽽⾮商品销售总额，因此商城扩张会
压低账⾯收⼊增速。
分地区看，第⼆季度美国收⼊下降 6% ，降幅较第⼀季度的 14.3% 收窄；欧洲收⼊下降 13.9% ，
主要受到商城模式切换、提价和减少线上⼴告投放影响。拉丁美洲等其他地区收⼊增⻓ 21.6% ，
抵消了欧美市场下滑。
希⾳仍保持较强的现⾦储备。第⼆季度经营现⾦流净额为 8.13 亿美元，截⾄ 6 ⽉底现⾦资源总额
为 152.48 亿美元，为吸收阶段性成本和继续投⼊履约体系提供了缓冲。
上半年，希⾳继续优化 “ ⼤规模⾃动化⼩单快返 ” （ LATR ）模式。
⽣产端，公司部署智能合裁系统，提⾼⾯料利⽤率和⼈⼯作业效率；履约端，公司增加欧洲本

地库存，部署机器⼈拣选和⾃动分拣系统，并尝试 “ ⼩额快备 ” 模式。
公司称， MUSERA 和 Aloruh 受益于品类拓展；参与 “SHEIN Xcelerator” 计划的 AiiRZ ⼆季度订单
量增⻓超过 50% ， KIZN 、 Fashion SZN 等合作品牌销售额创下新⾼。
这些表现为品牌赋能业务提供了初步⽀撑，但相关收⼊和利润贡献尚未单独披露。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
16 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
展望未来⼀⾄两年，希⾳提出拓展更⾼价格带、增加质量与合规投⼊、改善消费者沟通三项重
点⼯作。管理层认为，更⾼价格带可以提升平均售价并改善盈利，同时强调将继续维持现有的
⾼性价⽐定位。
公司未给出明确的全年盈利指引，仅表⽰对下半年经调整净利润前景 “ 审慎乐观 ” 。
履约费⽤率能否回落，将成为下半年盈利修复的关键。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 599: 日本経済見通し：2026年9月

Source PDF: all report pdf/日本経済見通し：2026年9月.pdf
Report source: DIR
Date: 2026-09-17
Pages: 10
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

日本

株式会社大和総研 丸の内オフィス 〒100-6756 東京都千代田区丸の内一丁目 9 番 1 号 グラントウキョウ ノースタワー 
このレポートは投資勧誘を意図して提供するものではありません。このレポートの掲載情報は信頼できると考えられる情報源から作成しておりますが、その正確性、完全
性を保証するものではありません。また、記載された意見や予測等は作成時点のものであり今後予告なく変更されることがあります。㈱大和総研と大和証券㈱は、㈱大和
証券グループ本社を親会社とする大和証券グループの会社です。内容に関する一切の権利は㈱大和総研にあります。無断での複製・転載・転送等はご遠慮ください。

2026 年 9 月 17 日 全 10 頁

日本経済見通し：2026 年 9 月 
「戦後最長」見込みの令和の景気拡大、その特徴と課題

経済調査部 チーフエコノミスト 神田 慶司 
  エコノミスト 畑中 宏仁 
  エコノミスト ビリング 安奈

[要約] 
◼ 2020 年 5 月を「谷」とする今回の景気拡張期は2026 年7 月で74 カ月となり、2000 年
代の「いざなみ景気」（73 カ月）を上回る戦後最長となった可能性が高い。ただし、
コロナ禍の影響を除くため 2019 年 10-12 月期から直近の 2026 年 4-6 月期までで見た
実質 GDP の年平均成長率は＋0.8％にとどまり、期間中の実質 GDP の増加率も 5.6％と、
過去の長期間続いた景気拡張期を大きく下回る。 
◼ 需要面では、高インフレに賃上げが追い付かず 実質所得が伸び悩み、 諸外国と比べて
も個人消費の低迷が顕著だった。供給面では、生産拠点の海外移転やアジア諸国との
競争激化を背景に、 製造業の生産や生産性、雇用 の弱さが目立つ。雇用の受け皿とな
っている非製造業も 生産性は低迷しており、生産性の高い産業への労働移動 は十分に
進んでいない。戦後最長となった可能性が高い景気拡張期であるにもかかわらず 、多
くの家計や企業にとってそれを実感しにくい状況となっている。 
◼ 「実感できる景気拡大」の実現に は、経済成長率のトレンドを高める必要があり 、AI
などへの投資拡大を通じた成長力強化が重要である。 消費活性化に向けては、 実質賃
金の着実な上昇に加え、インフレに対応した資産形成や中低所得層への再分配機能の
強化などが求められる。さらに、教育支出の世帯間格差の拡大が示唆されており、人
的資本形成や中長期的な成長力への影響にも留意が必要だ。

### Page 2

1

2 / 10

1. 「戦後最長」でも力強さを欠く今回の景気拡張期 
（1）過去の景気拡張期・主要国との比較で際立つ内需の弱さ 
2020 年 5 月を「谷」として始まった今回の景気拡張期間は戦後最長となった可能性 
内閣府が2026 年9 月7 日に公表した7 月分の景気動向指数（一致指数、速報値）は2 カ月連
続で上昇し、機械的な基準に当てはめた基調判断は「改善」とされた。現在は2020 年5 月を谷
とする景気拡張期にあるとみられるが、この基調判断に基づくと、拡張期間は2026 年7 月で74
カ月となり、2002 年 1 月の谷から2008 年 2 月の山まで続いた戦後最長の「いざなみ景気」（73
カ月）を上回ったことになる。 
景気の山の認定には、通常は数年程度の時間を要する1。前回の景気循環（第 16 循環）では、
景気の山が 2018 年 10 月と暫定的に設定されたのが2020 年 7 月で、確定したのが 2022 年 7 月
だった。 
内閣府が 2022 年 8 月から参考系列として公表している新 CI は、直近まで改善傾向を示して
いる。また、2026 年 7 月 23 日に開催された第22 回景気動向指数研究会では、改善された新指
数（新累積 DI・新 CI の改善案）に基づく機械的な基調判断で、2023 年頃から直近まで「改善」
が示されている2。実質 GDP や日銀短観の業況判断 DI といった他の経済指標の推移などを踏ま
えても、今回の景気拡張期間が戦後最長となった可能性は高そうだ。

今回は過去の主な景気拡張期に比べ、実質GDP の増加ペースは緩慢で停滞感が強い 
しかし多くの家計や企業にとって、自らが戦後最長の景気拡張期の只中にあるという実感は
乏しいだろう。そこで図表 1 では、景気拡張期間が長かった上位 4 つの景気である「いざなぎ
景気」（1965 年10-12 月期～1970 年 7-9 月期）、「バブル景気」（1986 年 10-12 月期～1991 年 1-
3 月期）、「いざなみ景気」（2002 年1-3 月期～2008 年1-3 月期）、前回の景気（2012 年10-12 月
期～2018 年10-12 月期）と今回の景気を対象に、実質 GDP 成長率とその要因を比較した。 
高度経済成長期にあったいざなぎ景気の実質 GDP 成長率は年率＋11.5％で、主に個人消費と
設備投資が成長率を押し上げるなど内需主導の景気拡大だった。1980 年代後半に始まったバブ
ル景気も同様だ。一方、2000 年代のいざなみ景気や2010 年代の前回の景気では年率＋1％台半
ばの成長率となり、内需の寄与度が以前から大幅に縮小する中で輸出の寄与度が高まるなど、
外需主導の景気拡大となった。

1 景気基準日付は、CI 一致指数の各採用系列から作られるヒストリカルDI に基づき、内閣府の景気動向指数
研究会での議論を踏まえ、経済社会総合研究所長が設定する。なお、2026 年7 月23 日に開催された第22 回景
気動向指数研究会によると、2022 年8 月から参考指標として公表している新指数について、事務局が提案した
改善案の系列に 2027 年 4 月分から切り替えられる（新しい月次の基調判断についても参考公表を開始）。新
CI・新DI に基づく景気基準日付の判定方法については、早ければ次の景気の山の暫定設定の際、従来の判定
方法による場合と大きなかい離が生じないかを確認した上で採用する（その際に新 CI 一致指数などを正式系
列へ切り替える）という。 
2 内閣府 経済社会総合研究所「景気動向指数の改善に係る検討状況」（2026 年7 月23 日）

### Page 3

1

3 / 10

図表 1：今回と過去の主な景気拡張期における実質 GDP 成長率と需要項目別寄与度

（注 1）景気拡張期間が長かった上位 4 つの景気である「いざなぎ景気」（1965 年 10-12 月期～1970 年 7-9 月
期） 、 「バブル景気」 （1986 年 10-12 月期～1991 年 1-3 月期） 、 「いざなみ景気」 （2002 年 1-3 月期～2008 年 1-3
月期） 、前回の景気（2012 年10-12 月期～2018 年10-12 月期）と今回の景気（2020 年4-6 月期～直近の2026 年
4-6 月期）を比較。「コロナ禍前以降」は 2019 年 10-12 月期から直近まで。 
（注 2）季節調整値で、「その他」は実質 GDP 成長率から掲載した需要項目の寄与度を差し引いたもの。1979 年
までは 68SNA、1980～93 年は08SNA・2015 年基準の遡及系列、1994 年以降は現行基準。 
（出所）内閣府より大和総研作成

今回の景気に目を向けると、直近の2026 年4-6 月期までの実質GDP 成長率は年率＋2.1％と、
いざなみ景気のそれを上回る。ただし、今回の景気拡張期は新型コロナウイルス感染症の拡大
に伴う緊急事態宣言の発出により、経済活動が大きく抑制された2020 年4-6 月期を谷として始
まった。同四半期の実質 GDP 成長率は前期比年率▲26％と未曾有の落ち込みを記録しており、
その後の経済活動の正常化による反動増が含まれるため、景気拡張期 間の平均成長率は高めに
表れやすい。 
この点を踏まえ、図表1 では2019 年10-12 月期を起点とした実質GDP 成長率を「コロナ禍前
以降」として掲載したが、年率＋0.8％と 1％を割り込んでいる。実質 GDP は 2019 年 10-12 月
期から 2026 年 4-6 月期までの間に 5.6％しか増加しておらず、いざなみ景気や前回の景気での
拡張期間中の増加率（それぞれ同 10.1％、同 8.6％）を明確に下回る。今回は息の長い景気拡
大ではあるが、コロナ禍の影響を除くと実質 GDP の増加ペースは非常に緩やかで、内需だけで
なく輸出の寄与度も前回の景気から縮小するなど停滞感が強い。 
今回の景気拡大ペースが緩慢な背景には、日本経済の成長力の低下もある。人口減少に伴う
労働投入の減少や、資本蓄積の鈍化などから潜在成長率は長期的に低下しており、景気拡大が
長期化しても高い成長率につながりにくくなっている。

国際比較で浮き彫りとなる個人消費の弱さ、背景には物価高による実質所得の停滞 
諸外国と比べても、近年の日本経済の成長力の弱さは目立つ。図表2 左は2019 年平均対比の
実質GDP 成長率を主要7 カ国（G7）で比較したものだが、日本は2026 年4-6 月期で6 番目の伸
+11.5％
（期間変化率：+67.8％）
+5.3％
（同：+24.4％）
+1.6％
（同：+10.1％） +1.4％
（同：+8.6％）
+2.1％
（同：+13.4％） +0.8％
（同：+5.6％）
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
い
ざ
な
ぎ
景
気
バ
ブ
ル
景
気
い
ざ
な
み
景
気
前
回
の
景
気
今
回
の
景
気
コ
ロ
ナ
禍
前
以
降
その他 公需
輸出 設備投資
個人消費 実質GDP
（年率、％、％pt）
（
カ
月
）
（
カ
月
）
（
カ
月
）
（
カ
月
）
景気拡張期間
57 51 73 71

### Page 4

1

4 / 10

びにとどまり、2019 年平均比＋3.4％だった。最も高い成長率を記録した米国では同＋17.2％
と、日本の約5 倍のペースで実質GDP が拡大した。

図表2：主要7 カ国（G7）における実質 GDP 成長率の需要項目別寄与度（2026 年4-6 月期時点、
左）、日本の実質可処分所得の要因分解 （右）

（注）季節調整値。右図の2026 年4-6 月期は、人口1 人あたりその他所得（＝可処分所得-雇用者報酬）が同年
1-3 月期並みと仮定した試算値。 
（出所）内閣府、総務省、各国統計、Haver Analytics より大和総研作成

需要項目別に見ると、日本の実質 GDP 成長率に対する個人消費の寄与度は諸外国に比べて特
に小さく、2019 年平均比＋0.4％pt だった（図表2 左）。個人消費の不振は実質所得の伸び悩み
が大きく影響したとみられる。2026 年4-6 月期における家計の実質可処分所得は、2019 年平均
をわずかに下回ったと試算される。 
図表 2 右でその要因を整理すると、1 人あたり名目雇用者報酬（GDP 統計上の名目賃金に相
当）要因は高水準の賃上げなどを背景に 2019 年平均比で 13.0％pt 押し上げた。女性や高齢者
を中心に労働参加が進んだことで雇用率（人口に占める雇用者の割合）要因も同 6.0％pt 押し
上げたものの、物価上昇による購買力の低下がこれらの押し上げ効果の大部分を打ち消し、同
16.4％pt 押し下げた。さらに、人口減少が同3.0％pt 押し下げた。 
今回の景気拡張期では、長らく続いたコストカット型のデフレ経済からインフレ経済への構
造転換が進み、 賃金と物価の循環的な上昇が見られるようになった ことは好材料だ 。だが、
2022 年春から急速に進んだ円安や資源高などを背景に物価が高騰し、賃上げが追い付かない状
況が続いた。厚生労働省「毎月勤労統計調査」に見る実質賃金指数は2022 年 4 月から 2024 年
5 月まで26 カ月連続で前年同月を下回り、2025 年まで下落基調にあったなど、景気が拡大する
中でも家計はその恩恵を十分に享受できなかったといえる。  
13.9
8.7
2.2 1.2
2.0
0.4
2.3
17.2
12.6
7.3
6.6 6.0 3.4 1.8
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
米
国
カ
ナ
ダ
イ
タ
リ
ア
英
国
フ
ラ
ン
ス
日
本
ド
イ
ツ
個人消費 輸出
総資本形成 政府消費
輸入 実質GDP
（2019年平均比、％、％pt）
13.0
0.1
6.0
-3.0
-16.4
-0.2
-20
-16
-12
-8
-4
0
4
8
12
16
20
19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
物価要因
人口要因
雇用率要因
人口1人あたりその他所得要因
雇用者1人あたり名目雇用者報酬要因
実質可処分所得
（2019年平均比、％、％pt）
（年）
4-6月期
特別定額
給付金等

### Page 5

1

5 / 10

（2）供給面から見た今回の景気拡張期の特徴 
数量と単位あたり付加価値の両面で弱さが目立つ製造業 
次に、供給面から今回の景気拡張期の特徴を確認すると、製造業の弱さと非製造業の底堅さ
が対照的である。データが遡及可能な1994 年以降、製造業の実質GDP は過去のいずれの景気拡
張期でも増加傾向を示してきた（図表 3 上） 。しかし今回は、2022 年 7-9 月期をピークに減少
傾向が見られる。一方、非製造業の実質 GDP は引き続き増加しており、非製造業が製造業の低
迷を補い、景気拡大を下支えする構図が鮮明になっている。 
製造業の実質 GDP の変動を数量要因と単位あたり付加価値等要因に分解すると、過去との違
いが一段と明確になる（図表 3 下）。2000 年代のいざなみ景気までの景気拡張期では、主に生
産数量の増加が製造業の実質GDP を押し上げていた。しかし、2010 年代以降は数量要因の寄与
が大幅に縮小し、単位あたり付加価値等要因の寄与が相対的に高まった。生産拠点の海外移転
や中国、韓国などアジア諸国の産業競争力の向上などにより、景気拡大に伴って国内生産が増
加するという従来の関係が弱まったと考えられる。 
2022 年以降は、数量要因だけでなく単位あたり付加価値等の要因も伸び悩んでいる。背景に
は、ロシアによるウクライナ侵略を受けた原材料価格の高騰や、米国の高関税政策への対応に
伴う輸出価格の引き下げなどがあるとみられる。

図表 3：業種別に見た実質 GDP の長期推移（上） 、製造業の実質 GDP の要因分解（下）

（注）シャドーは景気後退期を表す。製造業と非製造業の実質GDP（実質付加価値額）の直近値は2026 年1-3 月
期。下図は製造業の実質 GDP の変動のうち、生産指数の動きで説明できない残差を単位あたり付加価値等要因
としている。 
（出所）内閣府、経済産業省より大和総研作成

90
100
110
120
130
140
150
94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
実質GDP
うち製造業
うち非製造業
（1994年1-3月期＝100）
（年）
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
94 96 98 00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24 26
単位あたり付加価値等要因
生産指数要因
製造業の実質GDP
（1994年1-3月期からの乖離率、％、％pt）
（年）

### Page 6

1

6 / 10

生産性が低下した製造業で雇用が減る一方、受け皿となる非製造業の生産性は伸び悩み 
いざなみ景気とコロナ禍前以降について、労働生産性と雇用の動きを産業別に比較したのが
図表 4 である。いざなみ景気では、雇用の受け皿となった非製造業の多くで労働生産性が伸び
悩んだり低下したりした。一方、製造業では電子部品・デバイスやはん用・生産用・業務用機
械、輸送用機械において、労働生産性の上昇と就業者数の増加が同時に見られた（図表4 左）。
情報・通信機器や電気機械では生産性が大幅に上昇しても就業者数の増加につながらないなど
製造業内でばらつきがあったものの、生産性を高めた産業の一部では、雇用を拡大して更なる
生産増に対応する動きも生じていたと考えられる。 
一方、コロナ禍前以降に目を向けると、製造業では労働生産性が大きく上昇する産業が限ら
れるようになり、労働生産性と就業者数の双方が減少する産業が増加した（図表4 右） 。前述の
ように、生産拠点の海外移転やアジア諸国との競争激化などにより、景気 の拡大が国内生産の
増加に結び付きにくくなったことが背景にあるとみられる。非製造業では、いざなみ景気時に
労働生産性が低下していた産業の多くで改善が見られるものの、生産性 上昇率は年率 0％前後
にとどまる。 
製造業を中心に、生産性が低下した産業では雇用が縮小する一方、その受け皿となっている
非製造業の生産性上昇率は総じて低い。このため、労働力が生産性の低い産業から高い産業へ
十分に移動しているとはいい難い。こうした状況は経済全体の生産性や賃金の伸びを抑え、景
気拡大の実感を乏しくしている可能性がある。

図表 4：産業別労働生産性上昇率と就業者数増加率（左：いざなみ景気、右：コロナ禍 前以降）

（注）労働生産性は産業別実質GDP を産業別就業者数で除して算出。バブルの大きさは各産業の就業者数シェア
（各期間の平均値）を表し、製造業と非製造業で色分けした。「いざなみ景気」はデータ制約により 2003 年 1-3
月期～2008 年1-3 月期で、「コロナ禍前以降」は2019 年10-12 月期～2026 年1-3 月期。鉱業と石油・石炭製品
製造業は就業者数シェアが非常に小さいため掲載していない。 
（出所）内閣府、総務省より大和総研作成

繊維製品
はん用・生産用・
業務用機械
電子部品・
デバイス電気機械
情報・通信機器
輸送用機械農林水産
建設
卸売・小売
運輸・郵便
宿泊・飲食
専門・科学技術、
業務支援サービス
保健衛生・
社会事業
その他サービス
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
-8 -7 -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5
（
労
働
生
産
性
上
昇
率
、
年
率
、
％
）
（就業者数増加率、年率、％）
バブルの大きさは
就業者数シェア
繊維製品
パルプ・紙
窯業・土石
一次金属
金属製品
はん用・生産用・
業務用機械
電子部品・
デバイス
情報・通信機器
輸送用機械
農林水産
卸売・小売
宿泊・飲食
情報通信
金融・保険
不動産
専門・科学
技術、業務支援
サービス
保健衛生・
社会事業
その他サービス
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
-8 -7 -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2 3 4 5
（
労
働
生
産
性
上
昇
率
、
年
率
、
％
）
（就業者数増加率、年率、％）

### Page 7

1

7 / 10

2. 「実感できる景気拡大」実現に向けた課題 
国内の投資拡大の余地は大きく、AI 分野などへの企業の積極投資による成長力強化が重要 
以上のように、今回の景気拡張期は戦後最長となった可能性が高いものの、需要と供給の両
面で弱さを抱えている。幅広い経済主体が景気拡大を実感できるようにするためにも、経済成
長率のトレンドを高める必要があり、国内投資の拡大を通じた成長力の強化が重要だ。 
日本経済は依然として投資拡大の余地が大きい。当社の「第229 回日本経済予測（改訂版）」
（2026 年 6 月 8 日）などで指摘したように、資本ストックは企業収益が最大化される水準であ
る最適資本ストックを大幅に下回り、直近の不足額は 290 兆円程度と推計される。また、日本
の設備の平均使用年数（ヴィンテージ）は2023 年で 14.1 年と、日本を除く G7 平均の 12.5 年
を明確に上回る。設備の老朽化は、生産性向上を妨げる一因になっている。 
高市早苗政権は「危機管理投資」と「成長投資」により、2040 年度までの累計で 370 兆円超
の官民投資を見込んでいる。国内投資を積極的に喚起しようという政策の方向性は妥当だが、
重要なのは官民投資額そのものではなく、民間投資の誘発や生産性の向上にどれだけ結び付く
かだ。このため、対象分野ごとの費用対効果を検証するとともに、政策の進捗と成果を継続的
に点検する必要がある。 
成長力の強化に向けてとりわけ重要なのが、人工知能（AI）分野への投資である。労働力人
口の減少が見込まれる日本では、AI を業務効率化にとどめず、新たな財・サービスの創出や事
業モデルの転換につなげる必要がある。この点、「AI エージェント」や「フィジカル AI」の普
及は、供給力を抜本的に強化する可能性を秘めている。当社の「第 230 回日本経済予測（改訂
版）」（2026 年 9 月 8 日）では、生成AI やフィジカルAI の活用により、日本の労働生産性上昇
率が今後 10 年間で年率 0.5～1.5％pt 程度高まる可能性を示した。もっとも、日本は他の先進
国に比べて AI の活用や投資が遅れており、企業の認識も十分とはいえない。AI を成長力強化
の原動力とするため、官民を挙げて導入・活用を加速させる必要がある。

消費活性化に向け、実質賃金の上昇やインフレ対応の資産形成、中低所得層への再分配強化を 
低迷する個人消費の活性化も重要な課題だ。人的資本を含む国内投資の拡大によって労働生
産性を高めるとともに、継続的な賃上げと物価の安定を通じて実質賃金が着実に上昇する環境
を整える必要がある。 
インフレに対応した資産形成も重要だ。日本では家計金融資産の約半分を現預金が占めるた
め、物価上昇によって資産の実質価値が目減りし、家計の購買力が低下しやすい。また、株
式・投資信託の資産効果は米欧に比べて小さく、住宅・土地の資産効果は不明確であるため、
資産価格の上昇が消費拡大につながりにくい。当社の「第230 回日本経済予測（改訂版）」で指
摘したように、金融リテラシーの向上や社会保障改革などを通じた将来不安の軽減、中古住宅
市場の活性化など、ストック面からの消費活性化の取り組みを進める必要がある。

### Page 8

1

8 / 10

中低所得の現役世代への再分配を強化し、消費を底上げすることも重要である。その観点か
ら、2029 年度の本格導入が予定されている「就業者負担軽減支援金」（「所得に応じたきめ細か
な給付」を行う新たな制度）は、所得格差の是正を図る上で重要な政策といえる。 
所得再分配効果を測る指標として、市場所得ベースと可処分所得ベースのジニ係数の差に注
目すると、日本はコロンビアを除くOECD37 カ国中 14 位3であり、再分配機能は諸外国の中では
比較的高い。しかしこれは、高齢者向けの社会保障が充実しているためだ。現役世代が多く含
まれる18～65 歳に対象を絞ると、日本は31 位まで低下する（図表5 左）。 
図表 5：年齢別に見た所得再分配機能の国際比較（左） 、18～65 歳における相対的貧困率と貧困
ギャップ（右）

（注）左図の「OECD 平均」はコロンビアを除く37 カ国の単純平均値で、データは2023 年（チリ・デンマーク・
メキシコ・ニュージーランド・トルコは2022 年、日本は2021 年、オーストラリアは2020 年、アイスランドは
2019 年） 。右図は遡及可能な範囲で現行の所得の定義に基づく系列を用いた。それ以前は旧定義に基づく系列
と接続している。相対的貧困率とは、等価可処分所得の中央値の半分（貧困線、2021 年で 127 万円）に満たな
い者の割合。貧困ギャップは貧困線を下回る者の平均所得が貧困線をどの程度下回るかを示す。 
（出所）OECD より大和総研作成

また、代表的な格差指標の 1 つである相対的貧困率（世帯人数を調整した可処分所得（等価
可処分所得）が中央値の半分（貧困線）を下回る人の割合）を18～65 歳について見ると、2010
年代から緩やかな低下傾向が見られる。だが一方、貧困線を下回る人（貧困層）の平均所得の
低迷（貧困ギャップの拡大）が顕著だ（図表5 右） 。日本の格差は米国のような「富裕層の富裕
化」ではなく、 「貧困層の貧困化」が特徴であり、中低所得の現役世代の再分配機能の強化は
こうした問題に対応したものといえる4。

3 データは 2023 年（チリ・デンマーク・メキシコ・ニュージーランド・トルコは2022 年、日本は2021 年、オ
ーストラリアは 2020 年、アイスランドは2019 年）。 
4 格差問題については、当社の「第 226 回日本経済予測（改訂版）」（2025 年9 月8 日）などで検討した。 
30
31
32
33
34
35
36
37
38
39
40
10
11
12
13
14
15
16
17
18
19
20
85 90 95 00 05 10 15 20
相対的貧困率
貧困ギャップ（右軸）
（年）
（％）
↑格差大
（％）
貧困層の困窮度【上昇】
貧困割合
【低下】
0.18 
0.07 
0.15 
0.09 
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
0.25
0.30
全年齢 18～65歳
日本 OECD平均
再分配機能が高い
全年齢 ：OECD37カ国中14位
18～65歳 ： 同 31位
（市場所得ベースと可処分所得
ベースのジニ係数の差）

### Page 9

1

9 / 10

就業者負担軽減支援金の詳細は今後検討されるが、当面の課題は財源の確保だ。2026 年 9 月
15 日に閣議決定された「飲食料品消費税率の臨時的な引下げ及び就業者負担軽減支援金の導入
に関する大綱」 では、「特例公債に頼らず、補助金等及び租税特別措置の適正化その他の歳出
及び歳入全般の見直しにより恒久財源を確保する」とされている。だが、具体的な財源確保に
ついては「予算編成改革の具体化の状況も踏まえつつ、早期に結論を得る」との説明にとどま
っており、今後の議論が注目される。

教育支出で世帯間格差が拡大しており、人的資本形成などへの影響に留意 
今回の景気拡張期では、物価高を受けて生活必需品の消費が抑制される一方、株高などを背
景に高額消費が底堅く推移しており、 「消費の二極化」が進んでいる5。米国で見られるような
高所得層と低所得層の間での消費の二極化6が日本でも進んでいるかについては見方が分かれる
ものの、教育支出については格差が拡大している可能性がある。 
図表 6 は、総務省「家計調査」の世帯年収十分位階級別データを用いて、単身を含む勤労者
世帯の等価消費額（除く住居等）7から疑似的なジニ係数を算出したものだ。数値が高い（低い）
ほど消費額の世帯間格差が大きい（小さい）ことを表す。消費支出全体で見ると、ジニ係数は
緩やかな低下傾向にあり、多くの費目でも横ばいないし低下傾向で推移している。これに対し、
教育費のジニ係数は 2000 年代を通じて他の費目を大きく上回る水準にあり、2010 年代後半か
ら上昇傾向が続いている。教育支出における世帯間格差が拡大している可能性が示唆される。 
図表 6：消費支出（除く住居等）の費目別ジニ係数の推移

（注 1）単身を含む勤労者世帯ベース。世帯年収十分位階級のデータを用いて、等価消費額（世帯消費額を世帯
人員の平方根で除したもの）のジニ係数を算出。個票データではないため疑似的なジニ係数といえる。 
（注 2）「消費支出（除く住居等） 」は、消費支出から「住居」 「自動車等購入」 「贈与金」 「仕送り金」を除いた
もの（「交通・通信」は自動車等購入を、 「その他の消費支出」は贈与金と仕送り金をそれぞれ除く）。 
（出所）総務省より大和総研作成

5 「二極化進む消費、百貨店売り上げ堅調 リスクは株価」（日本経済新聞 電子版、2026 年7 月 27 日） 
6 米国の個人消費の二極化については、当社の「第 227 回日本経済予測（改訂版）」（2025 年 12 月8 日）の
第 2 章で取り上げた。 
7 世帯人員の影響を調整するため、世帯消費額を世帯人員の平方根で除したもの。 
0.0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
00 02 04 06 08 10 12 14 16 18 20 22 24
消費支出（除く住居等）
食料
光熱・水道
家具・家事用品
被服及び履物
保健医療
交通・通信
教育
教養娯楽
その他の消費支出
（ジニ係数）
（年）
消費額の格差拡大

### Page 10

1

10 / 10

教育支出は将来の所得や生産性を左右する人的資本への投資であり、その格差の拡大は 機会
格差や所得格差の固定化につながる可能性がある。政府は高校授業料の実質無償化などを進め
てきたが、平均的な負担軽減だけでなく、所得水準によって教育機会や教育の質に差が生じて
いないかを継続的に検証することも重要だ。人的資本の蓄積は、日本経済の潜在成長率を高め
る基盤でもある。消費の二極化が議論される中、教育支出に見られる格差の動向は 、中長期的
な成長力という観点からも注目される。

図表 7：日本経済見通し＜第 230 回日本経済予測 改訂版（2026 年 9 月 8 日）＞

（注）網掛け部分は大和総研予想。原油価格と為替レートは予測時点の水準で一定と想定 
（出所）各種統計より大和総研作成 
2028
4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3
実質GDP（年率、兆円） 594.6 592.4 594.0 596.8 599.0 597.3 598.2 599.2 600.9 602.6 604.0 605.3 589.3 594.5 598.7 603.6
  ＜前期比､％＞ 0.1 -0.4 0.3 0.5 0.4 -0.3 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.2
  ＜前期比年率､％＞ 0.5 -1.5 1.1 1.9 1.4 -1.1 0.6 0.7 1.2 1.1 0.9 0.9
  ＜前年同期比､％＞ 2.0 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.9 0.8 0.7 0.4 0.4 0.9 0.9 1.0 0.7 0.9 0.7 0.8
( 0.1) ( 1.2) ( 0.7) ( 0.7)
民間消費支出（前期比、％） 0.1 0.6 0.2 0.4 0.0 0.1 0.1 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.3 0.2 0.1 1.3 0.7 0.9
民間住宅投資（前期比、％） 0.6 -7.9 5.0 0.9 -0.6 -0.7 -0.8 -0.9 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -1.0 -0.4 -2.6 -0.7 -3.8
企業設備投資（前期比、％） 1.3 -0.2 1.3 -1.0 -0.9 0.8 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 1.8 2.2 -0.1 1.7
政府消費支出（前期比、％） 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.4 1.7 0.0 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.4 2.3 0.8 2.5 1.5
公共投資（前期比、％） 0.9 -1.1 -0.5 1.4 -0.5 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.2 0.1 -0.3 0.4 0.8
輸出（前期比、％） 1.7 -1.4 0.1 1.7 0.4 -0.9 0.4 0.6 0.6 0.7 0.5 0.5 2.7 2.0 1.1 2.0
輸入（前期比、％） 1.8 -0.6 -0.2 0.3 -1.7 2.4 1.0 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 0.7 4.0 2.5 0.8 3.5
名目GDP（前期比年率、％） 7.3 1.3 3.7 3.1 5.5 0.8 2.3 3.4 0.1 1.7 1.7 2.7 4.0 4.3 3.1 1.7
GDPデフレーター（前年同期比､％） 3.3 3.5 3.4 3.2 2.6 2.4 2.2 2.5 1.3 1.0 0.8 0.5 3.2 3.3 2.4 0.9
鉱工業生産（前期比､％） -0.5 -1.0 0.2 2.5 0.3 1.0 0.3 0.3 0.4 0.4 0.3 0.3 -1.5 -0.2 2.9 1.5
コアＣＰＩ（前年同期比､％） 3.5 2.9 2.7 1.7 1.5 1.9 2.4 3.2 1.9 1.7 1.1 0.7 2.7 2.7 2.2 1.3
失業率（％） 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.4 2.5 2.6 2.5 2.5
コールレート（期末値、％） 0.48 0.48 0.73 0.73 0.98 1.25 1.50 1.75 1.75 1.75 1.75 1.75 0.48 0.73 1.75 1.75
10年物国債利回り（％） 1.41 1.60 1.84 2.23 2.61 2.88 2.95 3.01 3.07 3.10 3.13 3.15 1.08 1.77 2.86 3.11
前提
原油価格(WTI、ドル/バレル) 63.7 65.0 59.1 72.7 92.7 84.4 91.5 91.5 91.5 91.5 91.5 91.5 74.4 65.1 90.0 91.5
為替レート(円/ドル) 144.6 147.5 154.1 156.9 159.4 159.3 156.3 156.3 156.3 156.3 156.3 156.3 152.5 150.7 157.8 156.3
2027
年度
(暦年)
2026
年度
(暦年)
2025
年度
(暦年)
2024
年度
(暦年)
2025 2026 2027

---
## Document 628: 沙特修复管道，红海原油出口“全量运行”，其出口量将决定油价走势

Source PDF: all report pdf/沙特修复管道，红海原油出口“全量运行”，其出口量将决定油价走势.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

沙特东西输油管道遭⽆⼈机袭击后完成修复，⽇输送量恢复⾄ 350 万桶，延布港重启装船作
业。与此同时，霍尔⽊兹海峡出⼝量已从 150 万桶骤升⾄ 650 万桶。两条出⼝通道能否同步
⾼位运转，将直接决定国际油价能否从⾼位回落，但胡塞武装的持续威胁仍是最⼤变数。
摘要：
沙特阿拉伯东西输油管道在遭受⽆⼈机袭击后完成修复并恢复出⼝，这⼀关键能源通道的重启
正在重塑全球原油供应格局，并对近期油价涨势构成压⼒。
周⼆，据《华尔街⽇报》援引知情⼈⼠消息透露，沙特国家⽯油公司沙特阿美已于周⽇开始通
过东西管道向红海港⼝延布装载原油，⽬前管道输送量约为每⽇ 350 万桶。与此同时，沙特在霍
尔⽊兹海峡的原油装载量此前已⼤幅攀升，两条出⼝通道同步运作的前景令市场密切关注。
消息公布后，国际基准布伦特原油价格周⼀涨幅有所收窄，但仍维持在每桶 105 美元上⽅。
分析⼈⼠指出，沙特能否在维持霍尔⽊兹海峡⾼位出⼝量的同时，同步恢复延布港的装运，将
是决定整体出⼝规模能否超越袭击前⽔平的关键变量，进⽽影响近期油价能否出现实质性回

落。
管道修复，关键能源动脉重启
东西输油管道全⻓ 750 英⾥，横贯沙特阿拉伯，连接波斯湾沿岸的主要产油区与红海港⼝延布，
是沙特绕开霍尔⽊兹海峡向外输送原油的核⼼替代通道。
该管道最⼤输送能⼒为每⽇ 700 万桶，其中约 200 万桶供应国内炼⼚，其余⽤于出⼝。据分析师
估计，在 9 ⽉ 10 ⽇遭受⽆⼈机袭击导致受损停运之前，管道⽇均输送量约为 400 万桶，约占全球
供应量的 4% 。
据知情⼈⼠向华尔街⽇报透露，沙特阿美已于周⽇启动延布港装船作业，⽬前管道运⾏吞吐量
约为每⽇ 350 万桶，部分流量将继续导⼊国内炼⼚。沙特阿美未就此置评。
霍尔⽊兹出⼝激增，双线并⾏考验运⼒
在东西管道停运期间，沙特阿美加⼤了经由波斯湾拉斯坦努拉港的原油装载⼒度，以弥补红海
通道中断造成的缺⼝。船舶追踪机构 Kpler 数据显⽰，拉斯坦努拉港的装载量近期已从 9 ⽉初的
每⽇ 150 万桶骤升⾄约 650 万桶。
这⼀转变背后，是沙特在霍尔⽊兹海峡⾯临的持续⻛险。为降低运输⻛险，沙特阿美曾要求部

分亚洲客⼾ —— 其最重要的原油买家 —— 在阿曼海岸附近的海峡外海域⾃⾏提货，据华尔街⽇
报此前报道。
与此同时，当胡塞武装在 7 ⽉加强对红海巴布曼德海峡附近沙特相关船只的袭击后，部分沙特原
油货物已被改道北上，经由苏伊⼠运河及苏美德管道系统转运。
出⼝量能否持续，决定油价⽅向
Capital Economics ⾼级经济学家 Hamad Hussain 表⽰，油市交易员当前最关注的核⼼问题，是
沙特能否在维持霍尔⽊兹海峡⾼位出⼝的同时，同步恢复延布港的装运规模。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
90 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
他指出，若波斯湾⾼位出⼝量保持稳定，叠加延布港运营逐步恢复，沙特整体原油出⼝量有望
超越袭击前⽔平，从⽽推动近期油价涨势出现逆转。
然⽽， Hussain 同时警告称， " 考虑到胡塞武装对能源基础设施构成的威胁，从延布出⼝的难度
已远⾼于冲突初期。 " 这意味着红海航线的安全⻛险仍是制约沙特出⼝恢复的重要变量，管道能
否⻓期维持⾼位运转，尚存不确定性。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 654: 真金白银表达信心！英伟达追加1500亿美元回购，规模创美企历史纪录

Source PDF: all report pdf/真金白银表达信心！英伟达追加1500亿美元回购，规模创美企历史纪录.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

英伟达宣布追加 1500 亿美元股票回购计划，刷新美国企业史上最⼤回购纪录，超越苹果此
前 1100 亿美元纪录。 CEO ⻩仁勋称此举彰显对 AI ⻓期机遇的信⼼。受此消息提振，英伟达
股价在周⼀盘前拉升⼀度涨 1.3% ，此前下跌近 1% 。
摘要：
随着持续从 AI 供应链的顶端地位中获取巨额利润，英伟达宣布推出追加规模达 1500 亿美元的股
票回购计划，创下美国企业历史上最⼤规模的回购纪录。
这家全球市值最⾼的公司于周⼀表⽰，其董事会已批准将回购计划额度增加 1500 亿美元。加上
已有计划，英伟达⽬前已获得授权，在 2028 年 1 ⽉前可投⼊最多 2350 亿美元⽤于回购股票。受
此消息提振，英伟达股价在周⼀盘前交易中⼀度上涨了 1.4% ，随后涨幅收窄。
英伟达联合创始⼈兼⾸席执⾏官⻩仁勋周⼀发表声明称，这项新计划反映了公司对 AI 领域 “ 未来
⻓期机遇的信⼼ ” 。他强调，由 AI 和加速计算驱动的平台转型带来了业务增⻓，公司强⼤的现⾦
流⽣成能⼒使其能够在投资推进技术转型的同时，向股东回馈资本。

这⼀巨额回购举措出台之际，正值英伟达股价的强劲上涨势头出现放缓迹象。随着越来越多投
资者开始质疑 AI 热潮的可持续性，此次创纪录的资本回馈不仅直接回应了市场的担忧，也凸显了
管理层对其核⼼业务变现能⼒的⾼度确信。
刷新美国企业资本回报纪录
英伟达此次 1500 亿美元的授权，打破了此前由苹果公司在 2024 年创下的 1100 亿美元美国企业最
⼤规模回购纪录。据彭博报道，在苹果宣布该项回购时，这家 iPhone 制造商包揽了美国企业最
⼤规模回购授权的前五名。
通常情况下，⼤规模的回购授权表明公司管理层认为其股票被低估，但这往往也与⼤型成熟企
业⾯临增⻓放缓有关。例如苹果在创下回购纪录时，其 iPhone 业务的增⻓正在放缓，主要依靠
其在智能⼿机市场的统治地位获取利润。
然⽽，英伟达的轨迹与此形成鲜明对⽐。该芯⽚制造商的销售额仍在快速攀升，预计其今年的
营收将实现约 90% 的增⻓。这表明英伟达在实施巨额股东回报的同时，其基本⾯依然处于⾼速
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
402 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
扩张阶段。
AI 基建投资维持强劲需求
英伟达利润的激增，根本原因在于整个科技⾏业仍在向 AI 基础设施注⼊巨额资⾦。据⾼盛预测，
今年全球 AI 领域的投资额将超过 1 万亿美元。
作为⽀撑 ChatGPT 、 Claude 和 Gemini 等⼤型语⾔模型运⾏的算⼒核⼼，英伟达的芯⽚产品在市
场上依然供不应求。在激烈的 AI 竞赛中，包括 OpenAI 、 Anthropic 和 SpaceX 在内的众多公司都
是其⼤客⼾。即使是拥有⾃主研发 AI 芯⽚系列的⾕歌，也是英伟达产品在其云计算部⻔的重要买
家。
充裕现⾦流⽀撑⻓期估值
超预期的财务数据为英伟达的巨额回购提供了坚实⽀撑。据标普全球旗下 Visible Alpha 的⼀致预
期数据，在截⾄今年 1 ⽉的最近⼀个财年中，英伟达创造了近 1000 亿美元的⾃由现⾦流。预计到

2028 财年，这⼀数字将增⻓两倍以上，达到 3290 亿美元。
在净利润⽅⾯，据 Visible Alpha 预测，英伟达本财年的净利润将翻倍⾄ 2450 亿美元，并在截⾄
2028 年 1 ⽉的下⼀个财年进⼀步升⾄ 3870 亿美元。
在⼆级市场表现上，⾃ OpenAI 于 2022 年底推出 ChatGPT 以来，英伟达的股价累计涨幅已超过
1200% 。但在 2026 年，该股的惊⼈涨势有所放缓，年内迄今涨幅约为 20% 。在市场对 AI 繁荣持
续性产⽣分歧的背景下，强劲的盈利预期与充裕的现⾦流，成为了英伟达稳定投资者信⼼的核
⼼⽀撑。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
MobileUser2857
16 ⼩时前 中国北京
怎么能投诉这种恶意回购？为什么不学习⾼位减持

### Page 3

0  回复

---
## Document 659: 管理AFC代理：模型治理与验证如何演变以适应具有自主行动能力的AI在金融犯罪合规领域的应用

Source PDF: all report pdf/管理AFC代理：模型治理与验证如何演变以适应具有自主行动能力的AI在金融犯罪合规领域的应用.pdf
Report source: 奥纬咨询公司
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 39
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

模型治理与验证如何演变以适应具有自主
行动能力的AI在金融犯罪合规领域的应用
管理AFC代
理

### Page 2

© Oliver Wyman
2

摘要
无论是内部开发还是向第三方采购，每个物料代理人都应连接到企业代理保证层，该层允许机构进行配
置、测试、观察、挑战、约束和停止系统，并保留用于监管的证据。
金融机构正开始在反金融犯罪（AFC）系统中部署具有自主性的AI，而监管环境仍在不断演变。
现有的
关于模型风险管理（MRM）的监管指南、如欧盟AI法案等新兴的横向AI治理框架以及行业在金融犯罪中
应用AI的原则，都提供了重要的治理原则。然而，这些都没有为具有自主性的AFC系统提供一个完整的
框架，后者的自主规划、工具使用、动态工作流程和授权决策带来了独特的治理问题。
全文中，我们以美国货币监理署（OCC）跨机构模型风险管理指南为例，因其提供了一个为许多合规和模
型风险团队所熟悉的治理生命周期，阐述了现有治理原则如何扩展应用于自主式自动柜员机（AFC）系统
。由此产生的建议旨在本身作为一个治理框架，适用于自主式自动柜员机系统，并可适用于不同的监管
和监管体系。
核心论点是，有效的监督必须从管理独立模型转向管理更广泛的代理系统。
该系统的固有物质性由业
务用例决定，但其残余风险以及其所需的相应治理和控制可以通过围绕自主性、工具权限、工作流约束
和运行时安全措施进行的工程选择来塑造。采用这种更广泛的治理视角的机构将能更好地部署安全、有
效且符合不断变化的监管预期的代理式人工智能。
本文提出了一种适用于机构当前应用的自主金融科技公司（AFC）系统的实用治理框架。
该框架并非取代
现有指导方针——包括跨机构模型风险管理指导、沃尔夫斯贝格人工智能原则以及金融行动特别工作组
（FATF）关于人工智能的工作——而是确定了在现有监管指导方针中仍然适用的治理原则，并引入了管
理在AFC环境中运行的自主系统所需的额外控制措施。

### Page 3

4

19

36
摘要2
10. 从框架到制度实践 35
11. 结论
4. 代理风险与基于风险的实质性框架 11
2. 定义代理式AFC系统 7
7. 治理、控制与权限 26
5. 代理开发与系统使用 16
3. 将现有治理原则应用于能动型AFC 9
内容
在专门的指导方针出台前，为AFC管理代理式人工智能
6. 代理验证与监控
8.
供应商和第三方代理解决方案：无责任转移的保障 28
9.
示例：一名反洗钱调查代理人员

### Page 4

© Oliver Wyman
4

这创造了一个实际的治理挑战。
机构必须运用并监督一种全新的技术，而所使用的监管框架是为上一代
分析和人工智能系统开发的。在网络安全、数据治理、身份与访问管理、隐私和运营风险等领域现有的
框架解决了这一挑战的重要部分；然而，它们通常不提供针对端到端智能体系统的集成治理模型，包括
其自主规划、工具使用、动态工作流程、授权委托以及与人类决策者的交互。在专门的治理框架出现之
前，机构需要一种实用的方法，将当今的监管原则应用于智能体人工智能，并加以扩展。
2020年反洗钱法（AMLA），该法案要求银行特定反洗钱报告“极具价值”，并确立了国家反洗钱/反恐怖融资优先事项；
后续
的FinCEN及跨机构材料进一步强化了以结果和有效性为导向的方法。
现有的模型风险指引为持续有效的治理原则和当前框架的界限提供了有用的说明。
2026年4月更新的美国
跨机构模型风险管理监管指南，废止并取代了长期有效的2011年指引（SR 11-7/OCC 2011-12）以及2021
年关于BSA/AML系统的跨机构声明。
反金融犯罪计划正进入一个注重实效的时代。
美国的方向——反洗钱法案强调对政府“高度有用”的信
息、转向结果导向的审查，以及监管姿态从重流程、对框框进行核查转向——正推动机构走向基于风险、
以结果而非活动来衡量成效的计划。在此背景下，金融机构正采用自主型人工智能用于调查及其他合规活
动中，以加强其反金融犯罪风险管理并提升其计划质量，且通常早于任何关于如何治理这些系统的正式指
导。这样做要求机构将问责、验证、监督和控制等既定原则转化为适用于能够规划、使用工具和行使授权
的系统所需的形态。
在专门的指导方针出台前，为A
FC管理代理式人工智能

### Page 5

© Oliver Wyman
5

代理机构（AFC）引入的基本治理挑战在于，对其核心中基础模型的训练过程缺乏影响力，也缺乏透
明度。
因此，治理必须围绕一个不透明的核心构建，利用机构能够直接管理的要素：代理机构的授权
和操作指令、其数据及工具的访问权限、其被允许采取的行动、需要人类批准的环节，以及用于审查
和重建其活动的记录。
本文以此为基础展开。
它并非取代现有的监管指南，而是识别出在当今框架下仍然适用的治理原则，
并引入了管理实际运行中的代理式自动交易系统所需的额外控制措施。
2 沃尔夫斯贝格集团，《在反洗钱合规中使用人工智能和机器学习的原则》（2022年12月）。
其五项要素为：合法目的；合理使用；
设计和专业技术；问责与监督；以及公开与透明。3 金融行动特别工作组，《前瞻性扫描：人工智能与深度伪造》（2025年12月22日
）——通过反洗钱/反恐怖融资/反制洗钱与恐怖融资的视角，对与人工智能相关的风险和趋势进行的前瞻性评估，包括生成式人工智
能和代理式人工智能。
生成式人工智能和代理式人工智能模型是新颖且快速发展
的。
因此，它们不属于本指南的适用范围。尽管如此，银
行机构的风险管理和治理实践应指导确定本文件未涵盖的
任何工具、流程或系统的适当治理和控制措施。
与此同时，它明确界定了自身的边界。
它将“模型”定义为一种复杂的定量方法，该方法应用统计、经
济或金融理论来产生定量估计，并随后明确指出生成式和具身式人工智能不在其范围内——同时明确说
明，这并非豁免控制：
机构可以借鉴既有的监管、风险管理及行业原则，但必须将这些原则转化为适用于更广泛能动性系统的
治理方法。
由于美国合规和模型风险团队最熟悉的是OCC跨机构模型风险指导提供的治理框架，我们将
其作为实用的组织参考，而非作为自身的治理框架。我们还借鉴了更广泛的行业指导，包括沃尔夫斯贝
格集团在金融犯罪合规中使用人工智能和机器学习的原则²，以及金融行动特别工作组（FATF）关于人
工智能和深度伪造的2025年12月展望扫描³，后者因通过反洗钱/反恐怖融资（AML/CFT）视角明确将能
动性人工智能列为新兴关注点而引人注目。

### Page 6

© Oliver Wyman
6

score/estimate
permissioned,
Actions/

代理系统
图1：从模型到工作流：治理单元的扩展
欧文咨询和霍肯分析。
整个系统是治理的单位
经典型号
该模型是治理的基本单位
输入
输出
模型
透明：输入、参数
逻辑是可检验的
治理边界
章程和提示
目标 — 范围 —
禁止行为
工具
最小权限
基础模型
不透明核心——无影响
或透明度用于培训
建议
受宪章约束
数据访问
批准来源
检索
人类升级
任何操作前请进行HITL标识确认。
后续行动
审计追踪——涵盖整个系统
治理边界
贯穿全文的核心转变在于治理单元从模型转向代理系统——也就是说，该模型与其驾驭系统（即协调和
调用工具的框架）、其可访问的数据、其可采取或推荐的行动、其升级求助的人类，以及其留下的审计
追踪。
管理该扩展单元依赖于一个企业代理保证层，该层允许代理——无论是内部开发还是第三方提供——进
行注册、测试、观察、控制和证明。
全文中，我们采用一致的三棱镜方法来审视现有的治理框架：(1) 哪些原则仍然直接适用；
(2) 代理
系统中出现哪些重要空白；(3) 解决这些空白所需的额外控制措施。

### Page 7

© Oliver Wyman
7

表1：传统人工智能、无自主能力的生成式人工智能与能动式人工智能的比较
维度
传统人工智能
代理型人工智能
生成式人工智能
无自主权
核心功能
预测，分类，和
结构化数据
创建内容
对提示的回应
制定并执行计划
执行步骤的顺序
达到目标
自主性与行动
低 — 遵循明确指示
逻辑，从不主动发起
低 — 对...有反应
提示，不采取
独立行动
高—分解
目标，选择工具，和
行为或推荐
决策速度
秒到分
毫秒 —— 为此而生
实时评分
决定论
高 — 相同输入
产生相同的输出
随机输出
可以不同
几分钟到几小时 —
精心策划了一场多
步骤工作流
随机与路径
依赖行为
可能因运行而异
治理对象
模型（输入，
参数，输出）
模型加
提示
整个工作流程：
模型 + 工具 + 数据
访问 + 行动 +
人类升级+
审计追踪
治理范围取决于被治理对象的定义。
在本论文中，AFC代理被定义为一种有边界、具备人工智能的系统
，该系统在批准的数据源和工具中追求调查或控制目标。AFC代理执行的活动可以包括，例如，收集和
交叉引用证据、总结警报、排序调查步骤、识别类型、建议升级、起草可疑活动描述，或质疑案例的逻
辑。我们互换使用“AFC代理”和“自主系统”这两个术语。两者均指这个复合系统——一个模型及其
工具、数据访问、编排和控制——而不是指单个模型。
2.
定义代理式AFC系统
AFC代理并非单一的大型语言模型，也非聊天机器人。
它更应被理解为一个组件系统，该系统组装起来
以模拟调查员的业务流程，并包含推理模型、用于调用外部系统和数据的一组工具、记忆层或检索层，
以及编排逻辑（该逻辑负责编排步骤）。这种构成方式正是为何代理不能作为单一模型进行管理的原因
：其行为源于各部分以自身节奏变化的交互。
值得将智能体与传统人工智能以及无决策自主权的生成式人工智能区分开来，因为这种差异决定了治理方
式：

### Page 8

© Oliver Wyman
8

hit/alert/case

AFC代理在警报和调查生命周期的使用案例——分析师审查之前、期间和之后
图2：调查全生命周期中AFC代理的使用场景范围
当前流程
交易
发生
批
处理
警报
生成
分析师
调查
代理式AI预分析师审查
识别
类型划分
收集
内部和
外部数据
总结
细节
推荐
或自动化
步骤
审查期间及审查后的能动式人工智能
指南
评论
文件
行为
草稿 SAR
叙事
进行问答
审阅列车
分析师
AFC代理涵盖广泛的应用场景和自主性——从调查副驾驶和欺诈分析师支持，到筛选处置、可疑活动报
告（SAR）撰写、类型分析、风险暴露映射和系统优化。
在设计驱动的自主性与对重大结果的内生邻近
性方面，这种范围内的重要性差异巨大。
随着时间的推移，这一谱系中的重复设计可能会逐渐稳定为少数几个原型（例如筛选-处置代理或SAR起
草者），每个原型都带有其特有的风险概况，并由此衍生出其特有的控制集。该学科仍在兴起，我们预
期当今的机构会对代理逐一进行评估和批准；然而，随着投资组合的扩大，识别这些原型能够让常见且
易于理解的设计基于共同基准进行验证并获得更快批准，同时稀缺的验证工作则集中于某个特定代理中
真正新颖或高风险的部分。

### Page 9

© Oliver Wyman
9

表2以OCC跨机构模型风险管理指南为例，说明了该方法。
OCC框架为许多金融机构提供了一个熟悉的治理
生命周期，使其成为展示现有原则如何应用于治理代理式AFC系统（以及必须在哪里加以改进）的有用参
考点。对于每个治理组件，该表格确定了：(1) 仍然直接适用的原则，(2) 代理系统引入的治理空白，
以及 (3) 解决这些空白所需的附加控制措施。
自主式 AFC 在现有治理原则的基础上构建，但需要超
越模型本身的控制机制。
这些机制应涵盖代理自主性、
工具使用、动态工作流、运行时监控以及对结果明确的
责任追究等方面。
现有的关于模型风险管理、横向人工智能治理框架以及行业原则的监管指南，都为人工智能系统提
供了宝贵的治理原则。
尽管它们在范围和目的上有所不同，但它们都包含共同的主题：基于风险的
治理、明确的责任、验证、持续监控、文档记录和独立监督。
3.
将现有治理原则应用于代理
型自动售货机
自主式AFC系统并未使这些原则失效，反而揭示了现有框架的不足之处。
自主规划、工具使用、动态工作
流程和授权决策带来了治理问题，这些问题在传统模型治理中基本缺失，在更广泛的AI治理框架中也仅
得到部分解决。因此，挑战并非要取代今天的治理框架，而是要扩展或增强它们，以涵盖更广泛的自主
式系统。

### Page 10

© Oliver Wyman
10

Similarity/applicability

implementation,

non-determinism,

Single-decision

authority)
accountability,

Vendor/

表2：应用和扩展OCC模型风险指引的代理AFC示例
如何弥补差距
OCC模型
风险组成部分
为主动
指导中的空白
为主动
模型开发
并且使用
定义代理权状：有界目标
自主性/实质性层级，授权
权威，升级逻辑，禁止行为
没有概念
授权
自主程度，或
系统可以采取的行动
取或推荐。
定义预期
使用，假设
目标，测试
以及使用限制
直接适用
代理人
概念上的合理性
将合规性审查扩展到章程。
指令/提示，工具权限
检索设计，以及编排逻辑。
仍然有必要
为了评估是否
潜在模型(式)
设计精良且合身
为特定目的而设计；
适用舞台评论。
假定单一
统计模型具有
稳定输入/输出
关键挑战在于
绕过
不透明的基础
模型——沉默不语
提示，工具选择
编排，数据
访问范围
持续监测
持续表现
监控和
流程验证
保持关键；漂移
检测适用。
运行时行为监控（路径和）
决策日志记录、将LLM作为裁判、护栏/
异常警报，由重新验证触发
材料配置或型号变更——不仅仅是
数据漂移
静态输入/输出
监控疏漏
行为漂移
并且提示/工具/
模型更新
在评论之间
结果分析
可解释性
思维链级别的可解释性；引文
时间戳记录的、防篡改的
源头的即时快照
已访问；工作流路径的可审计性
已采取，包括每一步的结果；
与AFC效能挂钩的结果指标
（例如提高搜救质量、降低误报率）
将输出与...进行比较
预期成果与
解释决定
核心；特性
可解释性水平
作为 SHAP — SHapley 值
附加说明)
仍然适用
任何贡献
统计模型。
分析不涵盖
多步推理
锁链，证据
传承、引文或
一个组合的人
AI审计追踪。内部
工作原理可解释性
例如 SHAP
不适用于
不透明的基础
模型本身。
治理，政策
以及控制（角色/）
董事会和高级管理层
管理
独立挑战
清晰的角色分工
完全适用。
不映射决策
人与人之间的权利
代理人，或定义
谁拥有代理人
跨AFC的行为
MRM 技术/供应商
定义人类决策权以及人-
闭环控制 (HITL) 控制；分配代理
所有权；使代理与人类意图保持一致；
向能动性发起独立挑战
工作流；偏差/公平性测试；常规
对数据鲁棒性测试
中毒攻击
模型库存
以及文件
保持
库存和
文档
适用。
代理/工作流清单捕捉
组件、版本、权限和
修改历史；将配置/提示视为
版本化的、有文档记录的工件。
库存设计
对于离散模型；
代理人结合
模型，工具，提示
以及数据连接
随着时间的推移而变化。
外部模型
供应商模式-
风险原则
验证，持续进行中
监控适用。
供应商代理验证与定制
控件；工具/合同的透明度
数据；持续联合监测；客户
保留激活和决策权。
有限的指导
验证供应商
代理机构，其
编排
部分不透明。

### Page 11

© Oliver Wyman
11

为了安全且大规模地部署代理系统，机构需要建立一个基于风险的实质性框架，该框架能够根据代理
活动的重要性来校准验证和监督。
这种方法要求区分两个核心概念：
• 材料性是指客观存在的外部重要性门槛。
某一事件、决策或产出具有材料性，如果其发生、未发生
或错报会影响到人类官员、审计师或监管者的决策。
4.
代理风险与基于风险的实质
性框架
• 风险是对不确定性的前瞻性衡量。
它是发生概率（系统故障、幻觉或执行错误的概率）和影响（该故
障带来的下游运营、财务或监管后果）的函数。
在一个授权环境中，重要性是主要的筛选标准。
通过首先评估业务流程的固有重要性，治理团队确立了
监管基准。该框架并非试图从随机模型中消除所有风险，而是使用重要性来确定技术 harness 所需的
稳健性。高重要性用例要求采用多层设计控制来降低残余风险，而低重要性用例则遵循简化的验证路径
。
基于风险的实质性应反映用例的固有风险敞口及其技
术控制的有效性。
这使机构能够进行与其相称的治理
，而无需将所有代理系统一视同仁。
在AFC领域，将统一治理模式应用于人工智能在操作上效率低下，甚至可能存在风险。
将低风险内部负
面媒体汇总工具与交易阻断代理置于相同的验证周期会导致资源瓶颈并延缓实施。相反，对交易性、高
影响代理实施宽松控制则会引入显著的合规和运营风险。

### Page 12

© Oliver Wyman
12

经典模型风险（基础）
核心生成式AI风险（认知核心）
4.1 代理系统的三分法风险分类
独立代理风险（行动层）
与传统的量化模型（静态且确定性）或独立的生成式人工智能工具（随机但交易性）不同，智能体式
人工智能系统引入了复合风险敞口。
尽管这三种人工智能类型之间的界限是流动的，但概念上可以将
它们分为三元风险分类法：
4.
2 双镜头物质性模型：固有属性与设
计控制
为建立一套有说服力的框架，机构必须通过双重视角模型来评估代理系统：
• 样本和数据偏差 • 过拟合与校准误
差 • 概念和数据漂移
新兴人工智能治理中一个常见的失败点在于将固有的物质性（或内在属性）与设计选择相混淆，也就是
说，问题与解决方案的混淆。
诸如“自主程度”或“工具访问权限”等因素并非用例的固有特征，而
是工程师配置的技术控制手段，用以管理风险。
• 随机性及幻觉 • 提示词漏洞（注入攻击和越狱） • 
上下文窗口退化
• 规划失败与目标漂移
• 工具使用与API执行错误
• 级联传播（多智能体向量）
• 无界爆炸半径与不可逆性

### Page 13

© Oliver Wyman
13

镜头1：纯粹的固有物质性（问题领域）
镜头2：设计控制因素（技术整合）
• 流程关键性（运营风险）。
流程对机构持续生存的重要性。核心支付路由的失败会立即停止银行业务
；而行政报告的失败 merely 仅会延迟一个内部周期。
• 环境波动与摩擦（可逆性领域）。
目标系统的物理特性。修改内部数据库是低摩擦且完全可逆的；
而写入公共账本或将文件提交给联邦金融情报单位则是高摩擦且实际上不可逆的。
第二个透镜评估技术 harness 如何限制风险敞口并降低残余风险。
严格的设计控制或许能支持在更严
格的参数下部署，但它们本身并不能改变问题领域的基本性质。这些是由开发团队（依据治理要求）强
加的架构边界，用以限制代理的影响。
首个视角在考虑技术或治理控制的有效性之前，确立了用例的固有物质性。
相关因素完全是外部的，在
代理被设计之前完全由业务用例和运营环境决定。它们无法通过编写代码、调整提示或添加护栏来改变：
通过内在物质性和设计控制因素这两个双重视角来评估代理性用例，使机构能够将系统映射到四
个不同的治理层级之一。
这种分类决定了后续章节中规定的具体控制集。
• 自主程度。
人机回路的设计配置，从辅助（“人在回路中”）转变为推荐（“人在回路外”）或自主
（“人机分离”）。
• 监管和法律密集度（合规风险）。
管理该领域的法规框架（例如BSA/AML申报义务、OFAC制裁合规、GD
PR或欧盟AI法案）。违规行为将面临固定的法律处罚和监管批评。
• 风险价值（金融风险敞口）。
指流程直接涉及的本金或交易量（例如，审核一笔100美元的零售交易，
与管理一笔5000万美元的机构财库流动）。
这种双镜分类法的关键启示在于，设计选择充当了一个操作杠杆，用以主动确定代理部署所需的验
证、监管、监控和控制水平，这也可以被描述为分配给代理的治理层。
虽然机构无法改变业务领域
的固有实质性，但可以通过有意的工程约束直接操纵剩余的治理层。

### Page 14

© Oliver Wyman
14

tier

friction.

(human-in-the-loop).

access.

(Analytical)
Customer ,

Autonomy:

(human-on-the-loop).

(Supervised)

matches).

friction.

telemetry.

(Autonomous)

Autonomy: 
(human-out-of-the-

表3：AFC代理机构的治理层级示例
治理
代表
AFC示例
固有轮廓
（问题空间）
设计边界
（解空间）
核心治理与
验证措施
一级
低（辅助）
负面媒体
摘要
（一个代理被用）
汇编和
总结
新闻文章用于
分析师评审)
• 低财务价值
处于危险中
• 非关键流程。
• 最小化监管
报告密度
• 低环境
自主性：辅助
动作空间：读
仅；无系统写入
断路器：基础
会话时长和
令牌大写
• 第五章（神）：已批准
提示模板；模型
版本锁定
• 第六章（估值）：中央库存
注册；用例
对齐检查
• 第7章（政府）：标准问答
输出采样
• 第8章（供应商）：标准第三方
派对安保评估
二级
中等
• 轻度经济/
运营影响
间接支持
监管流程
• 可完全逆转
环境 (人类)
审阅草稿。
反洗钱调查
SAR草稿
代理 (An agent)
聚合
了解你的
构建时间线
以及草稿
搜寻叙事
（用于签字确认）
推荐
操作空间：只读
或高度受限
内部
写入权限
断路器：
输入/输出提示
注射过滤器
• 第五章（开发）：强制性
书面代理章程；严格
RAG基础定位
• 第六章（价值）：黄金
数据集测试；覆盖
费率监控
• 第7章（政府）：四人联签
关于推荐；分配
老板
• 第8章（供应商）：验证
租户隔离
数据处理
三级：高
PEP筛查
处置
自动驾驶（一种）
代理
自主地
清除低风险
误报
并升级
• 交易量大
风险敞口
• 核心监管
合规流程
（例如，PEP/）
制裁筛查
• 适中的
环境的
自主性：受监督
行动（人-）
审批循环)
动作空间：中等
写入权限
自动化API调用
断路器：真实
时间交易率
以及容量限制。
• 第五章（草稿）：已编撰的政策
转换为顺序工作流；
严格保密管理
• 第六章（估值）：运行时执行
追踪；子群体偏差/公平
测试；红队演练
• 第7章（政府）：密码学
委托工作负荷标识
实时性能
• 第八章（供应商）
沙盒验证
独立代码审计
供应商逻辑
四级：关键
自动化
逃避制裁
阻断者（一种代理）
阻挡线
转移和
冻结资产
在交易中
发动机级别）
• 高经济价值
处于危险中
• 存在主义
关键流程
• 密集监管/
法律监督
• 不可逆转
环境
（立即冻结）
自主
循环；异常
仅升级）
动作空间：
交易写入
阻止权限
断路器：
自动化的，硬件的
隔离式杀开关
• 第五章（开发）：隔离执行
沙盒；独立评论家
代理验证
• 第 6 章（估值）：持续的“大语言模型即服务”
“审判”审计；数据中毒
韧性测试
• 第 7 章（治理）：董事会批准；
正式事件管控与
回滚剧本
• 第8章（供应商）：实时
联合监控；合同约定
责任担保

### Page 15

© Oliver Wyman
15

例如，反洗钱调查代理人在一个合规要求极高的环境中运作。
然而，通过严格设计系统采用推荐自主
模型（二级），并拒绝其直接的交易写入访问权限（限制其行为范围），工程师们可以降低残余风险
，并支持一种更受约束的部署态势。该系统遵循二级指南进行管理，避免了为四级系统保留的密集的
、董事会级别的隔离开销。
治理强度应随着代理人的剩余风险增加，而不仅仅
取决于其用例。
更强的设计边界可以支持低风险
部署，而扩展的自主权、外部访问或不可逆操作则
需要更严格的监管。
因此，模型风险管理及合规团队必须将代理设计不仅视为一项工程任务，更应将其看作一个动态的治理
旋钮。
通过调整自主性、限制API工具集以及嵌入硬编码的断路器，机构可以有意减轻高度复杂用例的验
证负担，实现速度与安全的平衡。
相反，如果一个最初风险等级较低的Tier 1负面媒体摘要器被授予写入权限，能够自主向外部客户关
联方发送电子邮件或更改客户关系管理（CRM）记录，那么其设计边界就发生了变化。这种设计扩展会
立即将该代理推向Tier 3，从而触发强制性的严格验证要求（例如执行追踪、偏见测试和加密委托身
份）。

### Page 16

© Oliver Wyman
16

现有的监管指南始终强调，人工智能系统在部署前应明确其目的、预期用途、已记录的限制，并经过适
当测试。
美国货币监理署的指南通过其期望来体现这些原则，即模型开发需与目的和用途保持一致，预
期用途和限制需得到说明，且模型在首次使用前需经过测试。这些原则同样适用于代理式自动柜员机系
统。
然而，治理应要求发展达成既定目标集，而非强制指定特定的系统构建方式。
机构必须能够证明其代
理满足这些目标；其实现方式是一种工程选择，这种选择会因具体应用场景、供应商以及机构的风险
偏好而有所不同。由于低代码平台越来越多地允许几乎任何人构建接触敏感数据并执行操作的代理，
因此构建过程本身需要与代理的重要性层级相匹配的监管措施。构建者从批准列表中选择模型、工具
和数据；常见设计以模板形式提供；只有特定角色才能构建特定类型的代理；并且代理的权限属于代
理本身，而非其构建者——因此，即使其创建者拥有写入权限，该代理也可以是只读的。
5.
代理开发与系统使用
在实际操作中，许多此类控制需要通过机构更广泛的AI工厂内的企业代理保证层来提供。
该层包含用
于在机构范围内注册、测试、部署、监控、变更、暂停和证明代理所使用的共享技术和治理能力。其
实施将取决于机构的云环境、代理 harness、评估工具、可观察性平台和现有的控制架构。这些选择
可能会有所不同，但所需的结果不应如此：每个重要的代理都应该是可测试的、可观察的、版本受控
的、可中断的，并且能够为独立审查提供证据。AFC应配置特定领域的策略、测试、阈值和决策权，同
时依赖保证层来提供通用能力。

### Page 17

© Oliver Wyman
17

2
Conﬁgurability.
3
1

1
5
结果的可重复性。
三个目标处于代理发展的核心。
章程是必要的，但不是充分的。
实现目标取决于在共同决定代理人行为的各个要素中做出审慎的
、有记录的选择：
记忆与状态。
智能体在调查过程中保留的内部和跨调查信息，以及施加于该记忆的控制。
系统提示和指令。
代理人的角色、运行人格、行为约束以及它在每一步都必须遵守的既定
规则。
6 配置与控制流。
步骤如何排序，以及智能体被允许为自己规划多少，与遵循固定路径多少。
相同的输入和配置会产生相似且
可解释的结果，因此事后可以重
建并辩护该决策，而不是将其视
为一次性生成。
该机构而非模型决定了代理的行为
：策略、阈值、工具、数据源以及
自主程度均由外部设定，并在控制
下可更改，无需重建系统。
基础文件是一份代理权章程：一份说明代理目标、其权责范围、被授予的授权以及被明确禁止采取的
行动的书面声明。
章程使得“预期用途和限制”对可行动的系统具有意义，并且它是所有后续控制（
验证范围、决策权、监控）的参照依据。
3 工具与权限。
代理可调用的具体工具，其读写范围设置为最小权限，以便一个被攻破或操作失误的
代理所能造成的损害有限。
模型选择与版本锁定。
指使用哪个基础模型，以及固定其版本和解码参数的规范，以便能够一致地测试
行为，并将结果的变化归因于已知的配置变更。
人类与智能体意图的统一
第四，数据访问与检索。
智能体可能使用的数据来源，以及使其基于已验证的当前信息进行检索的设计
方案。
该代理机构追求机构所持有的目
标，仅在其限定的范围内行事，
不会偏离代理目标或采取超出其
职责范围的行为。

### Page 18

© Oliver Wyman
18

Source: Hawk.
9
附件3：不良媒体和开源情报筛选工作流定义示例
部署前的测试则评估各个独立组件（底层模型、检索质量、每个工具）以及集成工作流的端到端行为，
评估方式是使用具有代表性的案例——包括边缘案例、模糊输入，以及旨在让代理偏离其职责范围的输
入。
采用工作流方法是将这些要素整合起来的有效方式。
在这种方法中，机构的标准操作规程和政策被整合
到代理人的工作流中。这是一个规定了代理人在每个步骤中必须或可以选择使用的工具、命名所需和可
选的数据源、设置读写能力以及选择自主程度的一系列流程。
将代理约束为显式、基于策略的序列，可同时实现三个目标：意图直接编码在步骤中（对齐），允许的
执行路径受到限制，且运行间的差异可追溯（可重复性和可审计性），以及每个步骤的工具、数据和自
主性均可单独调优（可配置性）。代理严格在那些边界内运行，且在需要最终审核或判断的地方精确插
入人工介入检查点。基于规划、更自主的设计也是可能的，并且可能适合低重要性场景，在这些场景中
，目标保持不变，但保证负担更多地从设计时约束转移到运行时监控。
七道安全屏障：输入和输出验证、提示注入防御措施，以及内容和个人身份信息（PII）过滤器，
这些措施均应始终有效，无论模型生成何种内容。
10 日志记录与可观察性。
在构建时捕获的仪器配置，它使后续的监控和审计成为可能（第6章）
。
8 人机交互检查点和决策权。
在代理采取行动之前，必须有人进行审查或批准。
评估和质量保证。
测试框架和评估数据集，以及在必要时，用于在人类查看之前检查主要代理
工作的质量保证代理或“评论家”代理。

### Page 19

© Oliver Wyman
19

6.1 验证范围
4 OCC 2026-13a, 第五部分。
模型验证的组成部分包括：概念合理性评估、结果分析以及持续监测。
6.
代理验证与监控
以OCC框架为说明参考，三个熟悉的有效性原则尤其具有相关性：概念上的合理性、结果分析与可解释性
，以及持续监控。
每一项都必须扩展，以反映代理系统所特有的不透明性、非确定性、编排和授权。
1.
概念上的合理性。现有的监管指南强调从模型设计、关键选择、假设和开发证据等方面评估量化组件
。对于自主系统，评估范围扩展到设计和编排的合理性，包括其章程、指令和提示、工具权限、检索设计
以及编排逻辑。由于基础模型不透明，评估应侧重于可测试和控制的内容，包括输出质量、基于可靠来源
的支撑、基准性能以及周边控制的有效性。
既定的验证原则仍然为自主式AFC系统提供了有用的基础，但需要将其应用于更广泛、更动态的对象。
重
点不再仅仅在于一个离散模型的性能；它还必须考虑智能体的设计方式、其使用工具和数据的方式、
其在多步骤工作流程中的行为方式，以及这些行为随时间的变化。
验证从未局限于模型本身。
它还包括影响系统运行方式的数据、处理步骤、接口和控制。对于自主系
统而言，该范围更广，因为代理可能依赖多个数据源、调用工具或服务并启动操作。因此，验证应涵
盖用例和章程；数据和工具访问；指令和检索设计；输出质量与证据溯源；升级和人工审批点；以及
变更管理、监控和结果。任何可能实质性影响代理行为或结果的组件都应纳入验证范围。
6.
2 将既有的验证原则扩展应用于代理式自动售检
票系统

### Page 20

© Oliver Wyman
20

6.3 偏见与公平
代理系统能够通过基础模型的固有偏差、它们的提示、它们检索的数据或它们进行调查研究的方式编
码或放大偏见。
因此，公平性测试应该是明确且可衡量的。有用的指标包括针对受保护属性和代理属
性（例如性别、年龄、种族或民族、国籍）以及代理（例如地理或基于姓名的民族推断）的子群体假
阳性率和假阴性率——此外还有差异化影响率、人口统计均等性差异、平等机会/平等化几率差距、预
测均等性（跨群体的平衡精确度）、组内校准以及平均几率差异。使用受保护属性或代理进行公平性
测试应获得法律、隐私和方法论的批准，仅限于评估目的，并由足够可靠的数据支持。
3.
持续监控。性能监控和漂移检测仍然至关重要，但静态的输入/输出监控会遗漏行为漂移、非确定性
以及正式评审之间发生的提示、工具或模型更新。因此，监控变得需要关注运行时和行为——记录路径
和决策，对护栏违规和异常发出警报，并使用校准的自动化评估，辅以人工抽样，以识别不受支持的声
明和错误的引用支持。任何实质性配置或模型变更都会触发重新验证。
2.
结果分析与可解释性。将输出与预期结果进行比较仍然是核心。单一决策分析无法捕捉的是代理人的
多步决策和执行路径。对于代理而言，可解释性需要对其采取的步骤、调用的工具、参考的来源、应用
的决策标准、产生的输出、置信度指标以及人类干预进行操作追踪。这些共同构成了“人类+AI”的联合
审计追踪记录。结果指标应与AFC（自动化决策支持系统）的有效性挂钩，例如SAR（社会风险分析）质
量提升和误报率降低，而不仅仅是任务完成。代理人相关的具体指标及其与单一模型指标的差异，在§6
.6中详述。
没有单一指标是绝对准确的，而且多个指标无法同时满足。
针对某一公平性定义（例如，人口统计
学均等）进行优化可能会损害另一个（例如，均衡机会），因此机构应选择并记录适用于特定应用
场景的公平性定义。这些指标在部署前使用经过筛选的“黄金”数据集进行评估，并在部署后进行
持续监控，数据质量下降被视为重新验证的触发条件和升级事件。

### Page 21

© Oliver Wyman
21

6.4 对抗鲁棒性与安全测试
6.5 可观察性与追踪
所有以上内容都取决于能够看清代理实际做了什么。
可观测性是指系统地捕获每个运行中代理的完整执
行轨迹的能力，包括每个提示和模型响应、中间推理步骤、每个工具调用及其结果、检索的来源以及延
迟、token成本和错误等操作信号。在此上下文中，轨迹是针对每个决策的粒度记录，而指标则是从许
多轨迹中得出的聚合值。
这些控制措施应在部署前进行测试，并在部署后定期进行。
机构应评估系统的攻击面，并开展旨在诱导
超出范围行为、未经授权访问、数据窃取或工具误用的对抗性测试和渗透测试。发现的问题应进行严重
性评级、修复并跟踪至关闭。事件响应程序应涵盖检测、遏制、暂停或回滚、根本原因分析、恢复以及
任何必要的通知或披露。
在实践中，这由一个专门的可观测性层提供——即新兴的LLM追踪平台——该平台将追踪信息写入一个
结构化、可查询且防篡改的存储库，并依据该机构的记录保存义务进行保留。
这一层将一个不透明、
非确定性的系统转变为可监督的系统。它支撑着思维链审计追踪和运行时监控、漂移与质量指标，以及
事后事件根本原因分析。没有它，代理的行为无法事后重建；有了它，每个决策都可以一步步回放。
代理系统可能处理不可信信息并调用外部工具或服务，从而产生需要特定控制的 security risks。
Prom
pt 注入发生在内容包含旨在改变代理行为的指令时。控制措施应包括将检索到的内容与系统指令分离、
验证输入和输出、限制对批准来源的访问、集中管理操作指令、对数据和工具应用最小权限访问，并筛选
传入内容和建议的操作。数据中毒发生在源数据或参考数据被故意操纵时。缓解措施包括使用批准和经过
验证的来源、维护数据溯源和完整性控制、监控源数据的变化，以及防止代理范围的无控制适应或扩展。
为避免在每个用例中重新创建可观察性，机构应在企业代理保障层中定义一个适用于云、代理平台和供
应商解决方案的通用追踪和证据标准。
AFC特定的指标应输入该层用于追踪捕获、访问控制、保留、监控
和事件调查的通用功能。

### Page 22

© Oliver Wyman
22

6.6 持续测量与漂移
6.8 持续确保证书，而非一次性批准
6.
7 推广：领先者/挑战者与分阶段部署
新工作流、提示和模型版本不应全局启用。
采用“领先者/挑战者”方法，在相同案例上，将所提议的
变更（挑战者）与现有方案（领先者）进行对比，并在推广前比较结果。这通过影子运行或并行运行、
试点到生产路径以及在黄金数据集上进行回测来加强，每个阶段都有明确的审批关卡。其结果是可控、
可逆的发布，其中变更可以根据证据进行推广或回滚，而不会造成中断。
一套实用的AFC代理监控方案结合了模型质量、数据及业务信号：精确率和召回率（通过已裁决样本、已
知结果或验证性回顾测试进行估算；
或通过分析师覆盖与代理正面及负面评估的对比进行评估）；误报
率、任务成功率、引用准确率、偏差与公平性指标，以及人工覆盖率；数据漂移和概念漂移（“可疑”
定义的变动）；以及调查解决时间等业务信号。每个指标都有阈值和警报，持续违规将触发审查、重新
校准或回滚。对于代理而言，覆盖率特别有用：上升的覆盖率是早期信号，提示或节点表现不佳需要关
注。反之，异常低或下降的覆盖率可能表明人工审查不足。
综合来看，这些实践将验证从一次性的批准事件转变为持续的保证。
相对于经典的模型验证，有两个
元素是真正新颖的——对抗性/红队测试和运行时行为监控——它们都直接源于智能体会行动、读取不
可信输入并以非确定性方式行事这一事实。经典的检测人工智能的可解释性原则得以延续，但它们已
从解释单个决策扩展到解释整个调查链。

### Page 23

© Oliver Wyman
23

Source: Hawk.

图4：代理工作流审计追踪（白盒可解释性）
对于自主型AFC系统，其验证不仅限于部署前测试。
机构
需要证据，证明在整个智能体生命周期中，决策、工具使
用、数据来源和人为干预均可被追踪、审查和质疑。
一个完成的调查视图，显示工作流路径、每步状态、参考的数据来源、应用的决策标准/风险因素、
置信度指示、引用/思维链，以及人类+AI联合的审计追踪；
包含一个用于单步的带结构化验证叙述
的悬停/详情面板。

### Page 24

© Oliver Wyman
24

图5：监控与漂移看板
一个监控面板概念，展示指标集（6.
6：精确率/召回率、FPR、告警至SAR比率、覆盖率、引用准
确率、数据/概念漂移、解决时间）及其阈值和告警状态。

### Page 25

© Oliver Wyman
25
Source: Hawk.

持续的监控应将模型、数据、运营和业务风险信号与明确
的阈值和升级措施联系起来。
这使得验证从一次性批准转
变为在代理运行和演进过程中的持续保证。

### Page 26

© Oliver Wyman
26

角色、职责和人机协同决策权限必须明确：谁有权授权哪些代理行为，以及在何种重要性级别下授权。
对
于调查反洗钱（AML）用例，应确保合格人员批准目标系统中任何具有后果的行动。其他允许有限自主行
为的AFC用例应被视为关键级系统，并需接受最严格的授权、监控、隔离和干预控制。
现有的模型库存实践可以自然地扩展到代理/工作流库存，该库存捕获每个代理的组件、版本、权限和
变更历史，并将配置和提示视为可版本控制的、有文档记录的工件，而非非正式设置。文档记录和审计
追踪将保持可供审计的状态，以支持独立挑战、内部治理和监管审查。
自主系统同样引发了身份和权限的问题，而经典模型则从未涉及这些问题。
一个自主体应始终持有其自
身的非人类身份。当它代表某人行动时，应使用委托的、代表他人行使的权限（授权而非伪装）；当它
处于会话之外运行时，应使用其自身的、有期限的、范围受限的凭证（客户端凭证/工作负载身份）。在
所有情况下，其可触及的范围都受限于自主体的章程，因此权限和预期用途保持一致。
治理也必须通过企业代理保证层进行扩展，该层位于任何个人AFC用例之上。
企业人工智能或技术应提供
通用注册、评估、追溯存储、监控和发布控制，而AFC拥有代理宪章、域策略、测试、指标、阈值和人类
决策权。上述控制对少数代理是可行的，但机构很快将运行数百个代理，可能无法从头开始验证每个代理
或全面审查其活动。这不会改变上述特定层级的决策权；它要求周边的保证流程进行扩展。当许多代理共
享共同能力时，该能力只需验证一次，并重用证据，而新增的审查则专注于增量风险，同时基于信号的监
控会暴露偏差，而不是将注意力均匀分散到每个代理。
现有的监管指南始终强调人工智能系统需要清晰的治理架构、明确的问责机制、独立的质疑环节、资产
清单以及文档记录。
以OCC框架为例，这些治理原则通过类比仍适用于代理式AFC系统，但已超越底层
模型，扩展至更广泛的代理式工作流程。政策与治理框架覆盖整个工作流程；角色、职责与问责机制超
越底层模型，涵盖更广泛的代理式系统，并且独立的质疑环节适用于代理式工作流程，而不仅限于嵌入
式模型。
7.
治理、控制及权限

### Page 27

© Oliver Wyman
27

tier

Low

High

Low High

图6：治理运营模式与决策权阶梯
欧文咨询和霍肯分析。
表4：按重要性层级划分的决策权梯级
物质性
代理
自主权
所需人力
批准
独立挑战
以及监督
标准问答采样
人类决定
一切
辅助—草稿和
总结；人类
作者的决定
中等
推荐 — 提出
一种有道理的性情
人工审核和
批准每个输出
定期审查；双人复核
样本
受控行动——作用于
日常案件，人类
在循环中
人类批准
例外；能够
干预或覆盖
实时监控；全面审计
小径；辅以定期的
独立验证和
定向审查
关键
章程内的自主权
—行为升级
仅例外
预先授权于
界限；强制性的
异常升级
持续保证，
独立挑战，击杀
切换
设计控制暴露（镜头2）
自主
监督
推荐
辅助
固有实质性（第一视角）
风险价值/流程关键性/监管密度/摩擦
二级 — 中等
（反洗钱调查及制裁令草拟代理人推荐）
四级 — 关键
自主执行（自动化制裁规避阻止器）
最后，治理负责在前一章中引入的跨职能控制：公平性结果及其监控、稳健性/数据中毒测试的日程安
排和所有权，以及事件机制——检测、遏制、回滚和披露——并明确界定跨AFC、MRM、技术、法律、审
计和供应商利益相关者的升级路径。
一级 — 低辅助（负面媒体摘要器）  
三级 — 高监督（PEP筛查处置自动驾驶
）

### Page 28

© Oliver Wyman
28

各机构在构建、采购或整合代理型AFC系统组件方面将有所不同。
内部开发可能提供更大的控制力、定
制化能力，并能更紧密地与机构特定的数据、工作流程和治理要求保持一致，而第三方解决方案则可
能提供在更广泛的类型、数据环境、部署模式、代币成本优化和监管预期方面积累的经验。外部供应
商也可能提供特定领域的 workflows、预构建的集成、专业知识和经过验证的控制措施，从而可以加
速实施和保障。
承担义务的主体必须能够验证配置的代理，在生产环境中监控它，评估供应商和模型变更，调查故障，
重新验证材料更新，并应对独立或监督性的挑战。
这些义务的适用性与系统是自行构建还是购买无关。
采购方式决定了该机构履行这些义务的能力如何。当供应商提供提示、组件版本、工具路径行为、运行
时跟踪、故障记录和变更历史——并附带与之协作的工具——这可以加速机构的保证活动，并支持更一
致的证据。
8.
供应商和第三方代理解
决方案：无需转移责任的
责任保障
第5号运营手册2026-13a，第七节（供应商及其他第三方产品）：即使组件是专有的，供应商模式风险管理原则仍然适用。
然而，第三方采购并不能转移治理责任。
虽然一个有能力的供应商可以通过提供成熟的测试工具、标
准化的证据和可重用的控制组件来减轻机构的保证负担，但内部开发可能提供更直接的系统行为、配置
和证据的访问途径。在任一模式下，验证、持续监控、结果分析以及干预的能力仍然是机构的责任。5 
配置好的代理必须根据机构自身的政策、数据、权限、流程和风险偏好进行评估。供应商通过提供机构
进行高效评估所需的配置透明度、测试工具和标准化证据来支持这一点。

### Page 29

© Oliver Wyman
29

Institution-specific

保障能力 最低要求
表5：第三方代理系统的最低保障访问权限
客户
可配置性
机构可以定义或批准章程、政策、工具权限、数据访问。
自主程度、升级逻辑和人工审批点
可检验性
一个沙盒、测试租户或等效机制支持黄金数据集、回归测试。
边缘情况，以及使用代表性机构场景进行对抗性测试
运行时
可观测性
运行级别证据涵盖工作流步骤、模型和工具交互、源数据血缘关系
行使的权限、错误、人工干预以及生效的版本
证据
便携性
痕迹、检测结果、监控数据和相关记录可以被导出到
该机构的自身证据、风险或档案保存环境
改变
管理
该机构收到关于实质性模型、提示、编排、工具或
控制变更，并且可以在部署前或部署后立即进行回归测试
独立
挑战
该机构及其独立的控制功能可以测试结果、审查相关
控制证据，获取访问失败信息，并质疑供应商的结论
干预
并退出
该机构可以暂停服务、撤销代理权限、降低自主性、回滚
调整背景材料，保留历史证据，并有序撤离
数据和安全
控件
租户隔离、数据驻留、子处理者透明度、保留控制以及
使用客户数据进行基础模型训练的禁令已有记载。
并且可执行
因此，确保访问权限应被视为既是采购标准，也是部署门槛。
在批准第三方代理之前，机构应确定其能
否配置代理以符合自身政策；在机构特定的代表性、边缘性和对抗性案例上对其进行测试；重建并导出
其执行轨迹；识别当前生效的模型、工具、提示和配置；接收重大变更的通知；进行独立挑战；使用自
身阈值监控结果；并在必要时暂停、限制或回滚代理。如果提供方展示了并合同上支持这些能力，评估
可以侧重于确认并记录其针对特定部署的充分性；否则，可能需要额外的权利或补偿性控制。
技术可以外部采购；
保证结果仍是机构的责任。供应商可以提供企业代理保证层的大量组件——越来越
像是一种产品化能力而非定制化让步——但机构必须保留对管理已部署系统所需的证据和干预权的直接
或合同强制执行访问权限。技术可以外部采购，而保证结果仍是机构的责任。
这些要求是结果导向的。
根据重要性，可以通过架构文档、版本清单、受控测试、可追溯导出、独立
保证报告、合同审计权以及联合监控来提供充分保证。

### Page 30

© Oliver Wyman
30

要求应与材料性相匹配。
机构与供应商应在初期就商定拟议层级所需的证据和干预权，并确认平台
能提供这些内容。若某项能力尚不存在，可行的路径是制定联合路线图：最初在较低自主权层级部署
，在平台周围添加独立控制，或缩小范围直至该能力可用。如果这些措施未能提供与拟议层级相称的
保证，机构就不应在该层级部署。
通用保证标准或平台级认证最终可通过证实组件清单、追溯模式、评估方法、变更通知、安全控制和审
计员访问的基本标准来减少重复评估。
它们不会取代针对特定机构的配置代理的验证。
第三方采购可以加速部署，但这并不转移责任。
机构应
保留管理代理人所需的相关证据、访问权限、干预权利和
独立保证，以确保根据其重要性对其进行管理。

### Page 31

© Oliver Wyman
31

附件7：受监管的AML调查工作流程的示例实施
使用合成数据进行鹰式示例。
顶部：针对人类（HITL）的警报摘要、评估和行动建议。中部：遵循FI标
准操作程序（SOP）的代理工作流程路径审计追踪。底部：类型评估和潜在风险评估。
受监管的代理机构可在保持人类问责制的同时加速反洗钱
调查。
其章程、风险等级、权限边界、验证证据和升级路
径必须确定其可执行的操作，以及人类批准仍然必需的环
节。
为使框架具体化，可考虑一个AML调查代理，该代理负责对一级警报进行研究和草拟。
它不监控实时交
易流；一旦该机构的主要检测系统发出警报，该代理就会在机构配置的工作流程中对该特定警报进行深
入调查。
9.
示例：反洗钱调查代理

### Page 32

© Oliver Wyman
32

### Page 33

© Oliver Wyman
33
Source: Hawk.

验证、检查点、监控和证据。
在部署前，代理程序会在典型案例和对抗性案例上进行端到端测试；任何
处置决定前都必须进行人工介入检查点；运行时监控会追踪第6章设定的指标；并且每个发现都由可解释
性要素支撑——路径、来源、标准、置信度和引用。这是一个具体的工作流程：首先触发结构化警报，
代理程序并行收集KYC信息和交易历史，构建时间线，筛选负面媒体，识别候选类型，并生成包含建议处
置方案和初步叙述的结构化摘要。分析师随后对输出结果进行质询，接受或修正，并做出最终决定。
授权与重要性。
代理人的授权仅限于调查和草拟：整合内部和外部数据、总结案例背景、识别相关类型
、建议后续步骤、并准备SAR叙述草稿——始终保留审计追踪，且绝不冻结账户、终止客户关系或向金融
情报单位报告。在第四章的重要性矩阵中，此项属于中高重要性，因为其输出结果将用于监管决策，但
它未达到最高级别，正是因为其无法采取行动。这一分类决定了控制集的设置。在中高重要性级别下，
它会调用决策权等级第七章的建议层级——要求对每项处置进行人工强制审批、对样本进行独立挑战，
并对推理链进行完整运行时监控和记录——而不是仅保留给被授权采取行动的代理人使用的实时监督、
仅限异常的升级和强制停止功能。一旦机构允许代理在目标系统中采取任何行动，所需的治理层级将提
升至最高级别，并引入最全面的控制集。

### Page 34

© Oliver Wyman
34

Institution-specific

具体而言，供应商可以如此支持在第8章建立的保障能力：
保障能力
最低期望
供应商支持示例
客户可配置性
机构可以制定或批准章程。
工作流管理器：该机构将其
策略、工具权限、数据访问、自主制定策略和标准操作程序，并将其整合为能动型工作流程
级别、升级逻辑、以及人工审批点，并独立配置每个节点——工具，
数据来源，自主性，升级逻辑
以及人类审批点。工作流是
按领域分类（反洗钱、欺诈、筛查、）
SAR叙述)并与独立的
提示和案例-动作语义。类型学
管理层允许该机构进行策展、版本控制。
并为其自身类型分类以依附于个体
工作流步骤
可检验性
沙盒、测试租户或等效机制
支持 golden-dataset、回归、边缘案例
并且使用有代表性的对抗性测试
制度场景
机构专用沙盒租户
专项测试，并与历史数据回测
该机构自身的黄金数据集——正在运行
机构自行服务或联合服务
供应商
运行时可观察性
运行级别证据涵盖工作流步骤、模型，每次调查均按运行记录。
以及工具交互、来源追溯、权限 工作流运行视图 — 执行的工作流步骤
已执行、错误、人工干预以及所调用的工具和数据源、模型输出
生效版本
类型匹配，以及分析师干预
在流程版本生效的情况下。代理式
绩效衡量增加了定量的
决策质量报告，基准测试
代理人的决策与分析师的结果相悖，
文档政策
证据可移植性
痕迹、检测结果、监控数据以及相关的运行记录、决策依据和案例审计
记录可导出到机构的自有轨迹中，按租户保留，并可访问。
证据、风险或记录保存环境制度以供其出口自己的证据
记录保存环境
变革管理
该机构收到适当的通知
材料模型、提示、编排、工具，或
控制更改并可以执行回归
部署前或部署后立即进行测试
材料平台的变更已传达
通过发布说明，该机构可以
在它的沙盒中对其代理进行回归测试
在领养之前。工作流程和类型
版本已置顶：一个更新版本
以通知形式出现，并并排显示
仅在明确制度中采用差异。
批准——从不默默进行。
独立挑战
沙盒测试代表性变更
回测
该机构及其独立控制
功能可以测试结果，审阅相关
控制证据，获取访问失败信息
并质疑供应商的结论
干预与退出
该机构可以暂停服务，撤销
代理权限，降低自主性，回滚
实质性变更，保留历史证据
并执行有序退出
完全自助控制：该机构可以
激活、暂停或停用代理，修改
或撤销工作流步骤和工具权限
减少自主权，禁用连接器
来源，并更改运行计划——而没有
供应商参与。历史运行证据
当代理被暂停时，会保留。
工作流已停用。
数据和安全控制
租户隔离，数据驻留，子处理器 严格租户隔离，并有文档记录的租户
透明度、保留控制及禁止架构；数据驻留、分包商
使用客户数据来训练基础模型
并且留存期限已记录在案。
模型已文档化且可执行
合同约定。客户数据并非
用于训练或改进基础模型。

### Page 35

© Oliver Wyman
35

第二阶段：标准化可重用控件和证据
第一阶段：建立可见性、所有权和边界
第三阶段：将保障嵌入平台
• 定义允许的操作边界：为每个代理建立一份章程，涵盖其目标、范围、授权权限、禁止行为、数据与
工具访问权限，以及所需的人为决策和升级节点。
• 开发可复用的代理原型和控制模式：为常见的重复使用场景定义通用设计，并辅以相称的审批要求
、人工监督模型、授权模式、评估标准及证据预期。
• 迈向持续保证：尽可能自动化控制检查和发布关卡，监控运行时行为和结果，并将异常连接到
事件管理、独立挑战和定期治理审查。
• 实施企业代理保障层：将通用注册、身份识别、策略执行、测试、发布控制、追踪、监控、暂停和
证据保留等功能应用于机构的AI工厂、代理平台和第三方解决方案。
• 制定采购要求：要求第三方解决方案支持机构特定测试、追溯与证据导出、配置透明、物料变更通知
、独立挑战、干预权以及有序退出。
机构不太可能一步到位达到目标状态。
一个务实的实施路径始于建立可见性、所有权和边界明确的
权限；然后标准化可重用的控制措施和证据；最终将保证和执行嵌入到机构的技术平台中。
• 库存代理活动：识别已在使用或处于试点阶段的AFC代理和类似代理的工作流程，指派负责的负责人
，并使用第四章框架对每个进行分类。
• 明确治理主页：更新模型和非模型治理边界，以便在AFC、MRM或AI风险、技术、网络、数据、隐私、
法律、审计和第三方风险方面，使能动式工作流具有明确的生命周期、审批路径和所有权模型。
• 建立通用的验证和证据标准：要求端到端测试、证据溯源、执行追踪、变更记录、监控阈值和再验证
触发器，并在适当情况下重用适用于通用能力的基线保证证据，同时每个配置的代理仍需接受端到端、
机构特定的验证。
这种排序不应被理解为严格线性。
机构可以并行发展不同的能力，但进程很重要：可见性和权
威提供了控制基础；标准化使治理可扩展；平台层面的执行使其可持续。
10.
从框架到制度实践

### Page 36

© Oliver Wyman
36

11. 结论
金融机构无需等待专门的代理式人工智能监管，即可在金融科技领域部署代理式系统。
现有的监管指南
和行业框架已提供可类推适用的有用原则，尽管它们并未为代理式人工智能建立一套完整的治理标准。
挑战并非要取代这些原则，而是要将它们从治理单个模型扩展到治理更广泛的代理式系统——包括其编
排、工具、数据访问、授权委托、人工监督和审计追踪。无论是内部构建还是向第三方采购，每个实质
性代理都应连接到企业代理保障层，以便机构能够对其进行测试、观察、质疑、约束和停止。
这一更广泛的视角的一个重要启示是，设计选择可以在不影响用例固有重要性的前提下，实质性影响
残余风险和部署条件。
虽然用例的固有重要性无法改变，但可以通过围绕自主性、工具权限、工作流
约束、护栏和人工监督等方面的工程选择来有意塑造代理系统的残余风险。因此，治理不仅是一门合
规学科，也是一门架构学科。
最终，治理问题已从“每个模型组件是否适用？”扩展到“AI支持的调查行为是否具有边界、基于证
据、可审计、可质疑、可监控、可解释，并与机构的AFC风险画像保持一致？”能够用证据回答第二
个问题的机构，将更有信心地采用自主AFC。

### Page 37

© Oliver Wyman
37

附录A——主要参考文献
• 美国货币监理署公告2026-13及跨机构《模型风险管理监督指南》（美国货币监理署2026-13a），美国
货币监理署/美联储/联邦存款保险公司，2026年4月17日。 • 沃尔夫斯贝格集团，《在金融犯罪合规中
使用人工智能和机器学习的原则》，2022年12月。 • 金融行动特别工作组，《前瞻扫描：人工智能与深
度伪造》，2025年12月22日。 • 美国国会，《反洗钱法2020》，公共法第116-283第F部分，2021年1月1
日。

### Page 38

© Oliver Wyman
38

### Page 39

+1 212 541 8100 +44 20 7333 8333 +65 6510 9700 +971 (0) 4 425 7000

---
## Document 696: 聯邦銀行卓越金融洞察(週)_20260907

Source PDF: all report pdf/聯邦銀行卓越金融洞察(週)_20260907.pdf
Report source: YesFund
Date: 2026-09-07
Pages: 22
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
聯邦銀行
卓越金融洞察
2026.09.07聯絡專線：02-25163168
高資產財富顧問中心
黃瀚鋐、葉宏洋

### Page 2

全球市場策略與展望
經濟數據回顧&行事曆
指數表現
總經專欄
股市專欄

### Page 3

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
全球市場
策略與展望
 上週美國市場概況：
上週末美伊再度開打 ，海峽局勢升溫與地緣緊張引發通膨預期 ，同時美股整週在利率預期多空交錯
下徘徊。原先週三 (9/2) 發布的 8 月 ADP 新增就業僅 3.8 萬人創年內新低，市場升息預期降溫，加
上油價漲勢暫歇 ，戴爾等硬體股強彈帶動科技板塊回血 ，道指、標普終結連跌 。週四(9/3) 美股全
面大漲，聯準會理事沃勒釋出鴿派信號表示通膨趨緩傾向利率按兵不動 ，美債殖利率下挫提振科技
股；此外輝達協議以近 130 億美元收購 Hugging Face，加上 Snowflake 財報超預期暴漲 26%，
大幅提振 AI 板塊情緒。直至週五盤前消息，8 月非農數據大幅升至 16.2 萬人，打擊市場降息預期，

升息預期升溫引發股指跳水 ，此也引發川普再度威脅聯準會降息 ，將全面切斷與所有對美貿易逆差
國家的經貿往來；然盤前消息傳出美光科技 HBM 產能預計年底前翻倍，追趕三星與 SK 海力士步
伐；同時鎧俠傳出計畫以升級版 NAND 替代部分 DRAM，盤中半導體板塊與記憶體族群逆勢走強，
費城半導體指數漲超 3%。另一方面在軟體、消費型電子類股承壓，且特斯拉 Cybercab 落地不如
預期跌超 6%，壓制納指表現下跌 0.29%。最終整週三大指數漲跌互見，標普 500 上漲 0.09% 至
7718.60，納斯達克指數上漲 0.4% 至 26506.99，道瓊工業指下跌 0.27% 至 53414.25。
 本週重點關注：
本週全球市場聚焦通膨與政策動向，週一 (9/7) 美加股市逢勞動節休市，同日公佈歐元區 Q2 GDP
終值；週二 (9/8) 美國 8 月 NFIB 小型企業信心指數、紐約聯儲 1 年通膨預期；週三 (9/9) 中國 8
月 CPI；週四(9/10) 美國 8 月 PPI 與初領失業金人數、歐洲央行利率決議，同日也迎來蘋果秋季發

表會、台積電 8 月營收；週五 (9/11) 美國 8 月 CPI。
8 月非農強勁反彈，升息預期仍強勁
關注本週美國 8 月 CPI 與歐洲央行利率決議
資料來源：聯邦整理
3
美股11大產業 一個月漲幅(%) 三個月漲幅(%)
科技 0.9 -0.42 1.68
通訊服務 -0.8 0.66 0.82
健護 0.2 3.39 12.40
金融 0.0 0.71 11.80
核心消費 -1.1 -0.90 1.87
非核心消費 -2.1 -4.26 -0.42
工業 -1.1 -5.48 0.93
公用事業 0.7 -1.68 -1.03
原物料 -1.5 -1.08 5.00
能源 2.2 10.98 9.99
房地產 -1.3 -2.53 -0.16
一週漲幅(%)

### Page 4

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
3
平衡型 積極型
9月資產配置 關注成長機會與風險並行
成長型
投資组合 3個月報酬 6個月報酬 一年報酬 最大跌幅
(一年) 最大漲幅(一年) 標準差(一年) sharp ratio sortino ratio
平衡型 0.65% 4.50% 12.26% 6.53% 13.74% 8.85 1.01 0.99
成長型 1.08% 6.72% 15.96% 7.70% 17.90% 10.82 1.19 1.17
積極型 1.38% 8.15% 18.51% 8.55% 20.75% 12.25 1.27 1.26
投資組合基準日期 ( 2026-08-31）
資料來源：Bloomberg –基準日2026.08.31、聯邦整理

美國股市
25%
日本股市
6%
歐洲股市
5%
亞洲排除日本
4%新興市場債
10%
非投資等級債
20%
投資等級債
30%
股票
40%債券
60%
美國股市
40%
日本股市
9%
歐洲股市
6%
亞洲排除日本
5%
新興市場債
8%
非投資等級債
10%
投資等級債
22%
股票
60%
債券
40%
美國股市
50%
日本股市
12%
歐洲股市
7%
亞洲排除日本
6%
新興市場債
2%
非投資等級債
5%
投資等級債
18%
股票
75%
債券
25%

### Page 5

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
4
全球股市展望
美國
歐洲
日本
中國
台灣
印度
新興市場
全球債市展望
美國公債
全球
投等債
全球
非投等債
新興市場債
美國各產業展望
科技
核心消費
非核心消費
通訊
工業
金融
健護
公用事業
房地產
 市場正在持續關注大型科技類股資本支出及其營收的效率 ，科技雖仍是未來股市上漲的主要動能，不宜看空已錯過行情，但資金仍有部分流往防
禦價值等類股，同時新任聯準會主席華許的上任，其在 Jackson Hole 的鷹派結果，使美國公債殖利率仍有走高之壓力，同步美國與日本債務的隱
憂持續共振全球債市的走高。 9 月 FOMC 將是關鍵。因此建議此時適度佈局具備防禦性質之醫療、核心消費族群。雖股市未明顯走跌仍在高檔震

盪，但此時可同步降低成長、循環型類股部位抑或是降低買入力道，以作為提前預防風險的到來。
 非美市場方面，歐洲近期各國的通膨進一步走高，市場升息預期存續；日本由於近期因實施電費與燃氣等補貼，然而薪資通膨以及日圓貶勢未反
轉下，通膨風險仍大，日圓在 9 月初仍跌回 160 元的大關，10 年期國債殖利率將突破 3%，同步升息預期仍有強勁的預期，總體而言日、歐股市
在短線上謹慎中性看待，長線仍看好。債券方面，目前公司債信用利差走高有限，代表信用風險仍然可控，適合長期鎖利率布局投資等級公司債；
採取中長天期搭配短天期的配置。總結以上，第一，需慎選財報優異且敘事穩定的族群；第二 ，適度配置防禦型類股，並且配合短期敘事的優勢
類股；第三，布局投資等級債來進行長期配置。
9月投資展望 順勢調整，靈活佈局

### Page 6

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
5
P14
總經專欄
高資產財富顧問中心

### Page 7

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
6
觀察面向 2026 年 7 月褐皮書 2026 年 8 月褐皮書
整體經濟 輕微至溫和擴張；11 區成長，受世足賽與觀光提振 微幅增長；10 區成長，高油價與地緣衝突使前景分歧
勞動市場 大致上升；5 區適度至穩固增長，製造與營造技術工短缺 極微幅上升；3 區溫和增長，零售餐飲疲軟且 AI 擠壓初階職缺
物價通膨 溫和成長；9 區溫和，中東局勢與關稅推升原物料及能源成本 溫和成長；8 區溫和，石化金屬成本高企且大眾比價限制轉嫁
消費支出 微幅成長；高油價壓抑非必要支出，消費者轉買平價替代品 微幅成長；高階消費穩健但大眾防禦性降級，車市大多疲弱
製造與基建 微幅至溫和成長；AI 資料中心、機械與國防訂單領跑 多數回升；資料中心與軍工訂單強勁，但供應鏈緊張與交期拉長

房產營造 整體微幅提升；資料中心興建活躍，高房貸利率壓抑成屋 住宅營造下滑；非住宅營造增加，動能高度集中於資料中心專案
金融信貸 總體平穩；商業與消費貸款微增，消費端信貸品質小幅轉弱 略有改善；多數轄區的放款量維持穩健或增加
美國專欄 8 月聯準會經濟褐皮書
資料來源：FED、聯邦整理
 從 7 月邁入 8 月，聯準會褐皮書顯示美國經濟有些微收斂，8 月成長區域由 11 區下調至 10 區，但整體動能仍維持微幅成長。然而隨著世足賽等
短期觀光效益消退，各產業也對能源價格與地緣衝突、政策的前景預期亦更加分歧。同時在勞動力市場方面，企業仍廣泛處於「低招聘、低解僱」
模式，且 AI 應用已從原先的招聘輔助演變為對行政初階職缺的實質擠壓。
 消費支出方面，儘管仍有持續成長，但從 7 月大眾消費端早已受影響，且在 8 月出現明顯降級，拖累平價零售與汽車銷售，奢侈消費與機票需求依
然韌性。住宅房市與傳統消費品製造在高利率環境下實質走弱，唯有 AI 資料中心基礎建設與國防訂單持續擴張。金融狀況 7 月定調為整體保持平

穩，商業貸款與消費貸款規模皆呈微幅增長，且商業貸款資產品質維持穩定，僅消費端貸款資產品質出現小幅轉弱；邁入 8 月報告後，受多數轄區
放款總量維持穩健或有所增加帶動，聯準會將金融狀況的評價上調為「略有改善」。

### Page 8

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
7
美國專欄 8 月 ISM 服務業 PMI 持續擴張；製造業 PMI 小幅走降
54.6
55.4
40
45
50
55
60
65
70
2017/3
2017/9
2018/3
2018/9
2019/3
2019/9
2020/3
2020/9
2021/3
2021/9
2022/3
2022/9
2023/3
2023/9
2024/3
2024/9
2025/3
2025/9
2026/3
ISM製造業指數 ISM服務業指數
前值變動 8月 7月 6月 5月 4月 3月 2月 1月 12月
商業活動 61.7 59.1 55.4 57.7 55.9 53.9 59.9 57.4 55.2
新訂單 60.9 57.2 55.1 57.3 53.5 60.6 58.6 53.1 56.5

雇傭指數 47.8 47.4 51.2 47.9 48.0 45.2 51.8 50.3 51.7
供應商交貨 51.3 52.8 54.4 55.2 56.8 56.2 53.9 54.2 51.8
庫存 56.7 51.4 51.2 62.5 53.1 54.8 56.4 45.1 54.2
原物料價格 72.6 70.3 67.7 71.3 70.7 70.7 63.0 66.6 65.1
未完成訂單 55.6 50.9 54.9 51.3 53.0 53.6 55.9 44.0 42.6
新出口訂單 56.3 52.0 50.4 50.0 52.1 50.7 57.2 45.0 54.2
原物料進口 56.3 51.8 49.4 51.1 54.7 55.2 51.8 48.2 50.3
庫存景氣 54.1 52.5 52.6 55.2 55.1 54.3 55.3 54.3 54.1
細項 非製造業指數2025~2026年
前值變動 8月 7月 6月 5月 4月 3月 2月 1月 12月

生產 58.3 58.5 52.0 54.3 53.4 55.1 53.5 55.9 50.7
新訂單 53.7 56.7 56.0 56.8 54.1 53.5 55.8 57.1 47.4
雇傭指數 51.2 52.8 49.7 48.6 46.4 48.7 48.8 48.1 44.8
供應商交貨 59.3 58.9 57.4 60.6 60.6 58.9 55.1 54.4 50.8
庫存 50.6 51.2 51.4 49.9 49.0 47.1 48.8 47.6 45.7
物價 71.1 71.1 73.0 82.1 84.6 78.3 70.5 59.0 58.5
客戶端庫存 42.8 40.7 42.3 42.7 39.1 40.1 38.8 38.7 43.3
出口 53.2 53.0 48.5 50.6 47.9 49.9 50.3 50.2 46.8
進口 52.5 55.7 52.9 53.0 50.3 52.6 54.9 50.0 44.6
未完成訂單 51.8 55.0 50.5 52.2 51.4 54.4 56.6 51.6 45.8

細項 製造業指數2025~2026年
8月ISM採購經理人指數
資料來源：ISM、聯邦整理
(指數)
指數50以上擴張
指數50以下緊縮
 8 月 ISM 非製造業 PMI 進一步由 54.1 升至 55.4，其中商業活動與新訂單創下多年新高，分
別來到 61.7 與 60.9 ，同時庫存在 8 月也出現較明顯得回補、未完成訂單來到 6 個月新高，
供應商交貨指數顯已連續四個月下降改善，產業發展強勁。然而物價與就業的問題仍未解，
物價指數進一步由 70.3 走高至 72.6，雇傭指數僅小幅恢復 0.4 至 47.8，雖招聘意願仍並不
高，但由於展業強勁表現 ，仍能視為一個潛在增僱可能 。另外，報告受訪的多數產業 ，焦點
多在關稅(301)、地緣政治導致的零組件、原物料價格問題，以及高利率陡議題上做評論，上
述因素正壓縮企業利潤的主因。
 8 月 ISM 製造業 PMI 由 55.6 降至 54.6，其中雖生產與新訂單分別走降來到 58.3、53.7，
但仍維持在 50 以上，仍處擴張區間。並且無論是本身還是客戶庫存仍然處於低位 ，未完成

訂單也大幅由 55 走降 51.8，同時供應鏈交貨狀態也無明顯緩解，指數達59.3，整體與非製
造業呈現反差。另外，物價與就業也是製造業面臨的問題 ，價格指數維持在 71.1 的高檔，
雇傭指數再度由 52.8 反轉下滑至 51.2。8月份中有近58%的負面評論，多提及價格波動、伊
朗戰爭、交貨時間延長以及關稅等議題。

### Page 9

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
162
4.1
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
私人商品製造 私人服務業 政府= 聯邦+州+地方
新增非農就業 U3失業率
8
美國專欄
 8 月新增 16.2 萬人，遠超預期 5.6 萬人；前兩個月累計大幅上修 5.5 萬人。U3失業率持平於 4.1% 的歷史低位；勞動參與率超預期回升 0.2% 至 61.6%，主要
由本土 25~34 歲及 55~64 歲族群帶動，且總計 68.5 萬人回流至勞動市場，同時因經濟而從事間職工人數走降 41.4 萬至 439 萬人，邊際勞工也走降10.1萬人
至170.4萬人，顯信心正在修復。另外，每小時時薪月增由 0.2% 升至 0.3%，年增放緩至 3.1%；每週工時微升至 34.4 小時。整體來看此次新增非農就業人數

的強勁表現，持續提振了聯準會的升息預期，然而也側面反映勞動市場仍然具備韌性，仍無衰退之疑慮。
 觀察產業表現，成長來自先前偏弱的休閒酒店業月增 6.2 萬人，其次是地方政府大增 5 萬人，而教育及保健服務也新增 2.9 萬人。另外，整體產業集中在私人
服務，增加 8.6 萬人，創四月以來新高，但零售與運輸倉儲明顯較上月放緩，僅新增 1.4 千人及 5 千人，資訊業與金融就業仍偏弱勢，分別減少 2.3 萬人及 1.1
萬人；商品部門方面則增加 4.1 萬人其中製造、建築、採礦皆微幅成長，但創今年1月以來新高；政府部門在上月的顯著回落 5 萬人後，8 月也回升3.5萬人。
2026-08 2026-07 2026-06 2026-05 2026-04 2026-03 2026-02 2026-01 2025-12
162 21 31 63 148 214 -156 160 -17
41 29 14 3 6 33 -21 45 -21
3 -3 -2 3 4 3 -1 -2 -1
22 18 3 2 3 15 -21 45 -7

16 14 13 -2 -1 15 1 2 -13
15 24 13 14 1 13 8 6 -5
1 -10 0 -16 -2 2 -7 -4 -8
86.7 41.7 12.1 58.1 143.5 169.5 -126.8 134.6 13.6
7.8 5.3 4.6 2.5 0.6 -1.7 8.4 2.1 -5.7
1.4 13.2 9.6 5 23.5 9.6 -0.3 12.7 -23.6
5 13.8 -10.3 0.8 39.4 25.1 -45.5 22.6 -4.8
2.5 1.4 0.2 0.8 1 -0.5 1.6 0.2 0.7
-23 5 -19 -5 -6 1 -23 -27 -6
-11 -11 2 -20 -6 -17 2 -39 1
10 15 36 6 20 28 4 36 -19
29 12 50 24 67 95 -49 119 38
62 -21 -54 42 -7 44 -31 5 25
3 8 -7 2 11 -14 6 3 8
35 -50 5 2 -2 12 -8 -20 -10

-5 -6 0 4 -1 -7 4 -37 -11
-10 18 -5 -2 0 -4 -6 3 -5
50 -62 10 0 -1 23 -6 14 6地方政府
資訊業
金融活動
專業及商務服務
教育和保健服務
休閒酒店業
其他服務業
耐久財
新增非農就業
政府部門
聯邦政府
州政府
非耐久財
批發業
零售業
運輸和倉儲業
公用事業
私人服務業
產業 (千人)
採礦業
建築業
製造業
私人商品製造業
8 月非農新增 16.2 萬人，U3 失業率維持在 4.1%
資料來源：BLS、聯邦整理
(千人)
8 月非農就業大幅超預期，提振聯準會升息預期
(%)

### Page 10

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
9
569
115
61.6
60.5
61
61.5
62
62.5
63
-1500
-1000
-500
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
2022/8
2022/10
2022/12
2023/2
2023/4
2023/6
2023/8
2023/10
2023/12
2024/2
2024/4
2024/6
2024/8
2024/10
2024/12
2025/2
2025/4
2025/6
2025/8
2025/10
2025/12
2026/2
2026/4
2026/6
2026/8
家庭調查就業人口數_月變動 家庭調查失業人口數_月變動 勞動參與率
每小時薪資年增由3.2%降至3.1%，平均工時走升0.1至34.4小時

美國專欄 8月 BLS 非農就業數據報告相關圖表
(%)(千人)
8 月邊際勞工與因經濟從事兼職工作人數皆走降
8 月勞參率走升 0.2% 至 61.6%，勞動力人口流入 65.8 萬人 8 月新增失業人口以「自願離職」及「永久性失業」為主要貢獻
資料來源：BLS、聯邦整理
3.1
34.40
34.0
34.2
34.4
34.6
34.8
35.0
35.2
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2018/4
2018/9
2019/2
2019/7
2019/12
2020/5
2020/10
2021/3
2021/8
2022/1
2022/6
2022/11
2023/4
2023/9
2024/2
2024/7
2024/12
2025/5
2025/10
2026/3
2026/8
美國每小時薪資(YoY)(左) 美國每週平均工時(右)(%) (小時)
1806
1704
4804
4390
3500
4000
4500
5000
5500
6000
6500
1100
1200

1300
1400
1500
1600
1700
1800
1900
邊際勞工 經濟因素而從事兼職工作 (千人)(千人)
-500
-400
-300
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
2024/12
2025/1
2025/2
2025/3
2025/4
2025/5
2025/6
2025/7
2025/8
2025/9
2025/10
2025/11
2025/12
2026/1
2026/2
2026/3
2026/4
2026/5
2026/6
2026/7
2026/8
新進入勞動市場 重返勞動市場 自願離職 永久性失業者 暫時性失業(千人)
勞動力人口變動：新增 56.9+11.5=68.5萬人

### Page 11

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
3.5
3.7
3.9
4.1
4.3
4.5
4.7
4.9
5.1
5.3
5.5
1M 6W 2M 3M 4M 6M 1Y 2Y 3Y 5Y 7Y 10Y 20Y 30Y
美債殖利率曲線 2026/9/4 美債殖利率曲線 2026/8/28
美債殖利率曲線 2026/8/21
會議時間 325-350 350-375 375-400 400-425
2026/9/16 0.0% 40.6% 59.4% 0.0%
2026/10/28 0.0% 29.8% 54.4% 15.8%
2026/12/9 0.0% 14.0% 41.4% 36.3%
2027/1/27 0.0% 10.8% 35.1% 37.4%
2027/3/17 6.1% 6.6% 25.6% 36.5%

10
油價高檔震盪，升息預期升溫，政策利率預計 Higher for longer美債專欄
美債殖利率曲線高檔震盪，中天期拉抬較明顯
資料來源：Bloomberg、CME、聯邦整理
(%)
 債市回顧：上週美債市場先受美伊衝突升溫影響，油價突破 90 美元，避險情緒推動殖利率在高檔走強，2 年期一度升至 4.35%、10 年期至 4.76%。隨後，聯
準會理事沃勒釋出偏鴿訊號，加上高於預期的 8 月非農新增就業，使利率指引出現大幅搖擺。然而，利率期貨截至 9 月 4 日仍 9 月升息一碼的機率來到 59.4%，
較上週走升。週五收盤，殖利率曲線整體上移，呈現「熊市陡峭化」格局，中天期漲幅最為顯著，7 年期殖利率上升 6bps，漲幅約 1.39%，而長天期相對溫和。
 短期展望：目前國際油價仍維持在 90 美元每桶以上，後續通膨仍有反彈的擔憂，同步非農的強勁表現壓縮聯準會寬鬆的空間 ，後續將使美債殖利率在高檔震
盪的格局。短期指標將留意本週美國 8 月 CPI，後續重點將放置下週的 FOMC (9/17)；即便後續如預期升息一碼，對股債市場影響預計有限，債市的殖利率拉

抬仍有部分反映，殖利率大幅走高空間有限，同時預計政策利率將呈現 Higher for longer 的格局，未出現需連續升息的理由；事件方面，考量到中期選舉初
選接近尾聲，同步川普民調的持續下滑，預計美伊仍會出現階段性的停火，安撫市場，使債市壓力再度緩解。
收盤殖利率 與上週變動 上週變動率
3M 3.8445 0.04 1.06%
2Y 4.3661 0.02 0.52%
7Y 4.6534 0.06 1.39%
10Y 4.7821 0.06 1.36%
20Y 5.2469 0.04 0.84%
30Y 5.2423 0.04 0.70%
截止至9/4，市場定價9月升息機率較高，也較上週走升
(2026/8/28)
會議時間 325-350 350-375 375-400 400-425
2026/9/16 0.0% 43.0% 57.0% 0.0%
2026/10/28 0.0% 29.7% 52.7% 17.7%
2026/12/9 0.0% 11.1% 38.3% 39.5%

2027/1/27 0.0% 8.1% 30.8% 39.2%
2027/3/17 0.0% 5.1% 22.4% 36.1%
(2026/9/4) (目前利率區間)
(目前利率區間)

### Page 12

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
11
P14
股市專欄
高資產財富顧問中心

### Page 13

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
-2.995 -2.895-5
0
5
10
15
20
2025 Q3 2025 Q4 2026 Q1 2026 Q2 2026 Q3 2026 Q4 2027 Q1
自由現金流 資本支出 研發費用
29.59
35
25 27
0
0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
2025 Q3 2025 Q4 2026 Q1 2026 Q2 2026 Q3 2026 Q4 2027 Q1
營收 毛利 調整後每股盈餘(右)
12
AVGO 博通營收符合預期，ASIC 持續放量
資料來源：Bloomberg、博通、聯邦整理
博通研發費用維持不變，自由現金流持續成長

 博通營收年增 85%，各客戶 ASIC 開始逐步出貨
博通 (AVGO) 2026 3Q 營收年增 85.5% 至 295.9 億美元，符合市場預期的 294.4 億美元；Non-GAAP 毛利率 75% 略優
於預期；Non-GAAP 稀釋後 EPS 年增 96.4% 至 3.22 美元。整體營運表現符合市場的預期。而半導體解決方案中的 AI 晶
片營收來到 167 億美元，略優於上季 160 億美元的指引。其中約 73% 屬於 AI ASIC，27% 來自 Networking 產品。整體
半導體解決方案營收為 208.4 億美元，年增 127%，而軟體業務營收則是 87.5 億美元，年增 29%。整體 AI 業務如預期爆
發性成長帶動獲利。
整體 2026 年度 ASIC 進度：Google (GOOGL) 大量出貨 Ironwood TPU v7，並開始量產 TPU v8i，Anthropic 部署 1GW
Ironwood，OpenAI 首代 Jalapeno 開始出貨，Meta (META) 將於第四季量產自用的 MTIA 400/450。

博通本季營收增速加快，下季預計再增加
(十億美元) (十億美元)(美元)
(預期) (預期) (預期) (預期)
半導體解決方案
208.4
基礎設施軟體
87.5
博通 AI 半導體成長加速
(億美元)
年增
127%
年增
29%

### Page 14

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
 博通未來兩年 AI 營收預計翻倍兩次，但因指引計算保守，尚未給市場帶來驚喜
博通給出下季營收展望預計年增 93% 至 348 億美元，營業利益率約 66%。其中 AI 半導體收入預計年增 236% 至 217 億美元。而 2027 會計年預計 AI 營收將
突破 1150 億美元、2028 年預計再翻倍至 2300 億美元。整體指引優異且並未納入「未確保供應鏈的部分」，而市場原先對 2027 年的預期為 1200 億美元。
也因此在財報公布後股價未有鮮明反饋。另一方面，博通當前成長大幅度依賴 Alphabet 的 TPU。根據彭博供應鏈調查，來自 Alphabet 的營收便占博通整體
營收之約 18%，因此市場在訂單有更高幅度的兌現之前可能仍會採取較謹慎的態度。

整體而言，博通截至上季 (本季未公布) 的待履約訂單數額為 1646 億美元，結合本季營收成長與確保供應鏈的指引，仍有相當程度之營收能見度。此外，管理
層表示未來毛利率可能因記憶體而受影響，但因整體營收成長加速，可產生正向營運槓桿覆蓋過記憶體價格影響，毛利率可維持穩定。
13
AVGO 指引雖高但略低於市場預期；客戶目前高度集中於 Google TPU
資料來源：Bloomberg、博通、聯邦整理
博通主要 ASIC 客戶出貨進度
客戶 2026
出貨
2027
展望
2028
展望 補充說明
Google
TPUv7
Ironwood 已大
量出貨，TPU v8i
開始量產
長期合約確保
每年數百億美
元供應
持續導入後續
世代 TPU，出
貨規模延續
已簽訂多年LTA
Anthropic 部署 1GW
Ironwood
部署 5GW
TPUv8i，成為
最大 XPU 客戶
再新增 10GW
TPUv8i，持
續擴張
預計 2028 年成
為最大 AI ASIC
客戶
OpenAI 首代 Jalapeño

出貨
部署 1.3 GW
的 Jalapeño
Jalapeño +
下一代 XPU
超過 5GW
與博通合作新一
代 ASIC
Meta
第四季量產
MTIA 400/450
(推論用)
三代 MTIA 至
2027 年底前全
面導入
2028 年約出
貨 3GW
合作研發自研推
論用晶片
博通毛利率可能因記憶體而略降，但總營收體量增加應可覆蓋毛利影響
73.0 72.7
66.2 66.2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2024
1Q
2024
2Q
2024
3Q
2024
4Q
2025
1Q
2025
2Q
2025
3Q
2025
4Q
2026
1Q
2026
2Q
2026
3Q
2026
4Q
2027
1Q
毛利率 營利率
(%)
(預期) (預期)

### Page 15

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
14
P14
指數與經濟數據表現
高資產財富顧問中心

### Page 16

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
區域、國家表現
15
資料來源：Bloomberg，基準日：2026.9.4
0.4 0.1
-0.3
0.4
-0.8
-2.0 -1.3
0.4
-0.6
0.8
-1.0
1.5
0.5 0.3
-0.4 -0.5 -1.2 -0.7 -1.6 -0.9
0.7
4.1
-0.3
0.3
-2.5
10.6
5.3
-0.1
4.9 4.2
5.2
2.2
4.4
-2.4
3.9
0.5
-2.4
1.4
3.1
-15.2
3.3 2.8
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
MSCI全球 標普500 道瓊工業 納斯達克
道瓊歐洲
600
日經225 東證
MSCI
新興市場
上證綜合 香港H股
印度

SENSEX
韓國
KOSPI
台灣
加權指數
香港恆生
一週漲幅(%) 0.4 0.1 -0.3 0.4 -0.8 -2.0 -1.3 0.4 -0.6 0.8 -1.0 1.5 0.5 0.3
一個月漲幅(%) -0.4 -0.5 -1.2 -0.7 -1.6 -0.9 0.7 4.1 -0.3 0.3 -2.5 10.6 5.3 -0.1
三個月漲幅(%) 4.9 4.2 5.2 2.2 4.4 -2.4 3.9 0.5 -2.4 1.4 3.1 -15.2 3.3 2.8
一週漲幅(%) 一個月漲幅(%) 三個月漲幅(%)

### Page 17

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
16
產業、原物料表現
資料來源：Bloomberg，基準日：2026.9.4
0.7 1.3 0.6 1.2
-0.5 -1.4
-0.3
0.6 1.0 0.4
7.1 7.5
-1.0 -0.3-0.4 -0.7
2.2
0.9
-2.0
-3.8 -4.0
-2.0
6.5
8.3
15.9
17.9
11.0
1.9
5.0
-3.2
9.7
12.6
1.3 1.7 1.4
-2.5
10.0
8.0
4.1
1.8
23.7
2.2
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
科技 通訊服務 健護 金融 核心消費
非核心消
費
工業 公用事業 天然資源 能源
布蘭特原
油期貨
西德州原
油期貨
費城金銀 黃金現貨

一週漲幅(%) 0.7 1.3 0.6 1.2 -0.5 -1.4 -0.3 0.6 1.0 0.4 7.1 7.5 -1.0 -0.3
一個月漲幅(%) -0.4 -0.7 2.2 0.9 -2.0 -3.8 -4.0 -2.0 6.5 8.3 15.9 17.9 11.0 1.9
三個月漲幅(%) 5.0 -3.2 9.7 12.6 1.3 1.7 1.4 -2.5 10.0 8.0 4.1 1.8 23.7 2.2
一週漲幅(%) 一個月漲幅(%) 三個月漲幅(%)

### Page 18

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
17
固定收益表現
資料來源：Bloomberg，基準日：2026.9.4
-0.1
-0.3 -0.2 -0.1 -0.2
-0.3
0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1
-0.2
-0.6
-0.4
-1.0
0.1
-0.2
0.5
-0.2 -0.1
0.1
-0.1
-1.2
-0.7
-0.8
1.3
0.5
1.9
0.1
0.0
0.3
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
美國公債
全球
投資級債
美國高收益債 歐洲高收益債 亞洲高收益債
新興美元
複合債
新興亞洲
信用債
新興美元
公司債
新興本幣公債 全球債指數
一週漲幅(%) -0.1 -0.3 -0.2 -0.1 -0.2 -0.3 0.0 -0.1 -0.1 -0.1

一個月漲幅(%) -0.2 -0.6 -0.4 -1.0 0.1 -0.2 0.5 -0.2 -0.1 0.1
三個月漲幅(%) -0.1 -1.2 -0.7 -0.8 1.3 0.5 1.9 0.1 0.0 0.3
一週漲幅(%) 一個月漲幅(%) 三個月漲幅(%)

### Page 19

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
上週主要市場重要經濟數據 (8/31~9/4)
日期 國家 經濟指標 數據
期間 實際值 市場
預期值 前值
8月31日 美國 3個月國債拍賣利率 - 3.770% - 3.715%
8月31日 美國 6個月國債拍賣利率 - 3.885% - 3.790%
8月31日 美國 芝加哥PMI 8月 47.1 57.8 57.6
8月31日 美國 達拉斯聯儲製造企業活動指數 8/28 11.6 - 1.3
9月01日 美國 標普全球製造業PMI 8月 53.9 53.2 53.9
9月01日 美國 ISM製造業PMI 8月 54.6 55.2 55.6
9月01日 美國 JOLTS職位空缺數 7月 7.271M 7.330M 7.182M

9月01日 美國 建造開支 7月 -0.5% 0.0% 0.0%
9月02日 美國 ADP新增就業人數 8月 38K 47K 46K
9月02日 美國 原油庫存 9/4 -4.450M -0.400M 0.095M
9月03日 美國 挑戰者企業裁員 8月 52.881K - 33.429K
9月03日 美國 初領失業金人數 8/29 206K 205K 204K
9月03日 美國 續領失業金人數 8/22 1,779K - 1,771K
9月03日 美國 非農生產率(季增年率) 第二季 56.5 56.8 54.6
9月03日 美國 單位勞動成本(季增年率) 第二季 56.0 56.0 54.5
9月03日 美國 貿易收支 7月 -88.60B -89.40B -71.20B
9月03日 美國 標普全球服務業PMI 8月 56.5 56.8 54.6
9月03日 美國 標普全球綜合PMI 8月 56.0 56.0 54.5
9月03日 美國 ISM非製造業PMI 8月 55.4 54.1 54.1

9月04日 美國 亞特蘭大聯儲 GDPNow 第三季 4.8% 4.6% 4.6%
9月04日 美國 新增非農就業人數 8月 162K 55K 21K
9月04日 美國 失業率 8月 4.1% 4.1% 4.1%
18

### Page 20

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
19
上週主要市場重要經濟數據 (8/31~9/4)
日期 國家 經濟指標 數據
期間 實際值 市場
預期值 前值
8月31日 日本 工業生產指數(月增) 7月 0.1% -0.7% 1.9%
9月01日 日本 標普全球製造業PMI 8月 54.9 55.1 54.5
9月01日 日本 企業資本支出(年增) 第二季 1.4% - 1.2%
9月03日 日本 標普全球服務業PMI 8月 52.5 52.3 51.2
9月03日 日本 標普全球綜合PMI 8月 53.50 53.40 52.70
9月04日 日本 家庭消費支出 7月 0.5% 2.6% -6.4%
日期 國家 經濟指標 數據
期間 實際值 市場
預期值 前值

9月01日 歐元區 標普全球製造業PMI 8月 52.7 52.8 51.9
9月01日 歐元區 HICP(年增) 8月 3.3% 3.3% 2.9%
9月01日 歐元區 失業率 8月 6.4% 6.3% 6.4%
9月03日 歐元區 標普全球服務業PMI 8月 51.6 51.7 51.7
9月03日 歐元區 標普全球綜合PMI 8月 52.0 52.1 52.0
9月03日 歐元區 PPI(年增) 8月 5.8% - 4.6%
日期 國家 經濟指標 數據
期間 實際值 市場
預期值 前值
8月31日 中國 官方全球製造業PMI 8月 49.8 49.5 49.2
8月31日 中國 官方全球服務業PMI 8月 49.0 49.5 49.0
8月31日 中國 官方全球綜合PMI 8月 49.5 - 49.3
9月01日 中國 標普全球製造業PMI 8月 51.5 51.0 50.9
9月03日 中國 標普全球服務業PMI 8月 51.4 50.6 50.4

### Page 21

本報告僅供參考，不構成任何銷售之要約、推薦或誘使。本行當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。
高資產財富顧問中心
20
9/7 (週一) 9/8 (週二) 9/9 (週三)
(13:00)【日本】領先指標(7月)
(16:30)【歐元區】Sentix投資者信心指數(9月)
(17:00)【歐元區】GDP(第二季修正值)(季增率)
(全天) 【美國】勞動節
(07:50)【日本】GDP(第二季修正值)(季增年率)
(10:34)【中國】貿易收支(8月)
(18:00)【美國】NFIB小型企業信心指數(8月)
(23:00)【美國】紐約聯儲1年通膨預期(8月)
(23:30)【美國】3個月國債拍賣
(23:30)【美國】6個月國債拍賣
(01:00)【美國】3年期國債拍賣
(09:30)【中國】CPI (8月) (年增率)
(20:15)【美國】ADP 就業變化週報

9/10(週四) 9/11 (週五) 9/12 (週六)
(01:00)【美國】EIA短期能源展望
(01:00)【美國】10年期國債拍賣
(18:00)【美國】OPEC 月報
(20:15)【歐元區】利率決議
(20:30)【美國】初領、續領失業金人數
(20:30)【美國】PPI (年增) (8月)
(22:00)【美國】成屋銷售(8月)
(23:30)【美國】亞特蘭大聯儲 GDPNow (第三季)
(00:00)【美國】原油庫存
(01:01)【美國】30年期國債拍賣
(17:00)【美國】IEA月報
(20:30)【美國】CPI (8月) (年增率)
(22:00)【美國】密大消費者信心(9月)
(22:00)【美國】密大一年期通膨預期(9月)
(01:00)【美國】美國農業部供需預測報告
(01:00)【美國】貝克休斯鑽井平台數
(01:00)【美國】貝克休斯鑽機總數
(17:00)【美國】新增貸款(8月)
(17:00)【美國】M2貨幣供給量(年增)
9/13 (週日)
(18:00)【美國】OPEC 月會

重要行事曆（2026/9/7~ 9/13）台北時間

### Page 22

當盡力提供正確之資訊，但對其完整性、即時性和正確性不做
任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行不負任何法律責任。任何人
因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，須自行承擔結果，本
行並不負責任何個人或機構的投資結果。投資須注意相關風險
及己身承受度而為，過去績效不代表未來收益之保證。
21

---
## Document 711: 談股論金：亞洲製造實力領先全球，機器人產業進入成長期

Source PDF: all report pdf/談股論金：亞洲製造實力領先全球，機器人產業進入成長期.pdf
Report source: Fubon
Date: 2026-09-04
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026

02-8751-6665 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號

亞洲製造實力領先全球，機器人產業進入成長期

亞洲硬體零組件供應商及設備製造商憑藉深厚的製造能力、工程技術與完整供
應鏈優勢，可望在機器人產業快速發展過程中取得有利地位並獲評價支撐。

出刊日：2026/9/4 
296 期

### Page 2

2026

02-8751-6665 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號 
談股論金

本期內容： 
1. 中國機器人今年出
貨動量增 20% 
2. 日本機器人企業基
本面領先亞太 
3. 亞洲廠製造能力為
機器人發展關鍵

重點摘要 
■ 小摩預期今年中國工業機器人出貨量
年增 20%，至 2030 年全球人形機器
人出貨量年複合成長率為 150%至
175 萬台，中國受益於成熟的製造技
術和政府推動發展將囊括 50%出貨量。

■ 日本機器人產業受惠於高價值自動化
軟體應用增加， 帶動機器人企業銷售
成長和獲利性 表現在亞太國家中相對
具有較佳的基本面。

■ 隨 AI 發展逐漸轉向到具商業價值、可
大規模拓展的實體領域，亞洲市場具
製造能力，成為發展機器人產業的關
鍵 ， 小摩預期未來實體AI 的 ChatGPT
時刻仍值得期待。

圖一：Global X 機器人與人工智慧 ETF 走勢                                    
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/8/27

重點摘要 
亞洲製造實力領先全球，機器人產業進入成長期

### Page 3

2026

02-8751-6665 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號

▋ 中國貢獻全球機器人出貨來源 
近期中國舉行機器人大會，展館涵蓋核心零
部件 、 整機裝備 、 行業解決方案和消費級產
品等產業鏈，中國積極將機器人從技術展品
導入各行各業，因 此多元場景應用成為這次
展出亮點，例 如家庭場景中 ， 自變量機器人
（X Square Robot ）的量子 2 號具清理客
廳和貓砂等家務能力，愛餐集團 H22 炒菜
機器人外觀類似冰箱 ， 將廚藝數位化的全自
動智慧烹飪設備等。中國電子學會數據顯示，
今年上半年中國各行業機器人產量逾 4 萬
台，全年可望超過 10 萬台。(圖二)

人形機器人亦為大會焦點之一，首形科技研
發的人形機器人「精靈￭璇」，不同於傳統
金屬或科技感設計 ， 仿生擬真的臉部、皮膚
觸感，因表情自然 、 友善而成展場熱門打卡
點。近期上證科創板上市的中國人形機器人
龍頭宇樹科技，展示包含曾入選時代周刊年
度最佳發明的 R1 雙足人形機器人等全系產
品，宇樹科技在硬體本體設計與小腦運動控
制技術上領先行業且自主研發率超過 90%，
去年宇樹科技人形機器人出貨量超過5,500
台，位居全球第一。(圖三)

小摩預期 2026 年中國工業機器人出貨量
年增 20%，而至 2030 年全球人形機器人
出貨量年複合成長率為 150%至 175 萬 台，
其中中國受益於成熟的製造技術和政府推
動發展下囊括全球 50%出貨量 。 小摩認為
人工智慧模型、特地場景資料或從模擬環
境導入至現實世界的挑戰，仍限制人形機
器人的自主性，而目前擁有強大製造和工
程能力的硬體零組件和設備製造廠將較獲
市場青睞，並使股價較具支撐力。(圖四)

圖二：中國機器人大會家庭場景機器人 
資料來源：公司官網，2026/8/27

圖二：中國機器人大會人形機器人成焦點

資料來源：公司官網，2026/8/27

圖二：小摩預測人形機器人市場規模成長 
資料來源：JPM，2026/6/25 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2025 2026 2027 2028 2029 2030
千台
中國 非中國

### Page 4

2026

02-8751-6665 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號

▋ 目前日廠基本面仍最具實力 
韓國工廠自動化程度高 ， 根據IFR 資 料，韓
國製造業每 1 萬名員工約配置 1,220 台工
業機器人，遠高於全球平均的 132 台，其
中電子業是韓國機器人使用最密集的產業
之一，三星電子、海力士、LG 顯示、LG 電
子等企業的機器人需求 ， 主要在自動化產線 、
搬運模組、機器視覺、控制器、工業軟體及
智慧工廠方案領域應用。韓國政府目標
2030 年成為全球前三大 AI 與機器人強國 ，
規劃至 2030 年累計部署 100 萬台智慧機
器人，並將零組件國產化率提高至超過
80%同時擴大機器人的應用範圍，韓國機器
人製造商斗山機器人等指標企業 ， 預計將在
2028 年推出工業用人形機器人。

相比中國受 到價格競爭和產能過剩使廠商
獲利承壓，韓國廠商甫將 AI 收益投入機器
人領域 ，而使商業化初期研發成本拖累獲利
表現，彭 博 研 究 指 出，近5 年日本機器人產
業受惠於高價值自動化軟體應用增加，帶動
機器人企業營收和 獲利性表現在 亞太國家
中相對較佳。(圖五)

此外，日本政府針對 AI 控制機器人、工廠
自動化設備與相關平台規劃在 2040 年前
投入 10.5 兆日圓 ，以打造日本實體 AI 與機
器人數據平台 ， 成為下一階段經濟成長核心，
加上持續受惠於人口老化 、 勞動力短缺和亞
洲推動再工業 化，以及機器人技術應用範圍
從工廠擴展到物流 、 醫療保健和服務等領域 ，
強勁出口動能可望支撐發那科 、 安川電機和
其他日本機器人製造商的發展。(圖六) 
圖五：日本是亞太機器人產業的獲利支柱 
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/8/12

圖六：日本機器人出口額趨勢成長 
資料來源：GS，2026/8/27

▋ 結論 
隨 AI 發展逐漸轉向到具商業價值、可大規
模拓展的實體領 域，彭博分析因亞洲市場具
備高端半導體 、 自動化設備和精密零組件生
產以及數位基礎設施等製造能力，成為發展
機器人產業鏈如感測(光 達、觸 覺 感 測 器、攝
影機與視覺感知晶片)、執行(馬達、軸承、
螺桿和減速器)、線束和鋰離子電池等技術
的關 鍵，目前日本機器人產業基本面，相 較
中國 、 韓國更為強勁，小摩預期未來實體 AI
的 ChatGPT 時刻仍值得期待。

*所列個股為舉例說明，並非個股推薦 
-10
0
10
20
30
40
亞太 中國 日本 韓國
%
平均銷售成長率 平均毛利率 平均淨利率
0
10
20
30
1/2024 1/2025 1/2026
10億日圓
中國 美國 盧森堡 韓國 印度 德國
台灣 泰國 新加坡 香港 其他

### Page 5

2026

---
## Document 718: 貿易統計26年8月－原油輸入は数量・価格ともに前年を上回り、貿易収支の悪化要因に

Source PDF: all report pdf/貿易統計26年8月－原油輸入は数量・価格ともに前年を上回り、貿易収支の悪化要因に.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-16
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1． 米国からの原油輸入の急増が継続 
財務省が9 月 16 日に公表した貿易統計によると、26 年 8 月の貿易収支は▲11,056 億円の赤字と
なり、赤字幅は事前の市場予想（QUICK 集計：▲10,525 億円の赤字、 当社予想は▲10,585 億円の赤
字）を上回った。輸出が前年比19.3％（7 月：同23.2％）、 輸入が前年比28.0％（7 月：同 27.8％）
となり、輸入の伸びが輸出の伸びを上回ったため、貿易収支は前年に比べ▲8,115 億円の悪化とな
った。 
輸出の内訳を数量、価格に分けてみると、輸出数量が前年比 2.5％（7 月：同 5.2％） 、輸出価格
が前年比 16.4％（7 月：同 17.1％） 、輸入の内訳は、輸入数量が前年比 2.7％（7 月：同 1.2％）、
輸入価格が前年比24.7％（7 月：同26.3％）であった。 
▲1,500
▲1,000
▲500
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
▲30%
▲20%
▲10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
貿易収支・前年差（右目盛）
輸出金額
輸入金額
貿易収支の推移
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」
（前年差、10億円）（前年比）
（年・月）

-25,000
-20,000
-15,000
-10,000
-5,000
0
5,000
10,000
15,000
▲2,500
▲2,000
▲1,500
▲1,000
▲500
0
500
1,000
1,500
1901 1907 2001 2007 2101 2107 2201 2207 2301 2307 2401 2407 2501 2507 2601 2607
貿易収支（季節調整値,左目盛）
(10億円）
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」
貿易収支（季節調整値）の推移
（年・月）
(10億円）
輸出(右目盛）
輸入（右目盛）  
▲10%
▲5%
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
数量要因
価格要因
輸出金額の要因分解（前年比）
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」 （年・月）
輸出金額

▲20%
▲10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
数量要因
価格要因
輸入金額の要因分解（前年比）
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」 （年・月）
輸入金額

季節調整済の貿易収支は▲8,406 億円（7 月：▲6,812 億円）と4 ヵ月連続の赤字となり、 前月か
ら赤字幅が拡大した。輸出が前月比0.3％、輸入が同1.7％となった。 
ニッセイ基礎研究所

2026-09-16

貿易統計 26 年8 月－原油輸入は数量・
価格ともに前年を上回り、貿易収支の悪化
要因に

### Page 2

26 年8 月の通関（入着）ベースの原油価格は1 バレル＝101.8 ドル（当研究所による試算値）と
7 月の 114.5 ドルから低下した。 
原油価格（ドバイ原油）は、6～8 月には 100 ド
ルを大きく割り込む水準で推移していたが、中東か
らの原油供給の停滞が長期化するとの懸念が高ま
ったことから、足もとでは120 ドル台まで急上昇し
ている。指標価格に上乗せされる調整金、 運賃、 保
険料などを含めた通関ベースの原油価格は 9 月に
再び上昇し、10 月以降は中東情勢緊迫化後の高値
（6 月の117.4 ドル）を上回る可能性がある。 
8 月の原油の輸入金額は前年比58.7％（7 月 ： 同87.8％） 、 輸入数量は前年比3.6％（7 月：同5.5％） 、
輸入価格は前年比 53.1％（7 月：同 78.0％）であった。うち、中東からの原油輸入金額は前年比
3.7％（7 月：同20.7％） 、 輸入数量は前年比▲30.9％（7 月 ： 同▲32.8％） 、 輸入価格は前年比50.0％
（7 月：同79.6％）であった。原油輸入全体では数量・価格ともに前年を上回り、貿易収支の悪化
要因となっている。 
ホルムズ海峡封鎖を受けて中東以外からの代替調達が進んでおり、8 月の米国からの原油輸入 （数
量ベース）は前年比603.5％（7 月：同814.5％） と急増が続いている。 原油輸入に占める中東の割
合 （数量ベース） は25 年時点で94.0％だったが、 足もとでは60％台まで低下し、 米国の割合が25
年の 3.8％から30％台まで上昇している。

▲80%
▲60%
▲40%
▲20%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
原油輸入の推移
輸入数量 輸入価格
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」
（前年比）
（年・月）
輸入金額

▲80%
▲60%
▲40%
▲20%
0%
20%
40%
60%
2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
地域別原油輸入（数量）の推移
中東 その他 世界
（前年比）
（年・月）（資料）財務省「貿易統計」  
94.0% 85.8% 83.9%
64.6% 59.3% 62.6%
3.8% 10.2% 12.2%
30.9% 36.3% 31.6%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
2025年 2026年4月 2026年5月 2026年6月 2026年7月 2026年8月
地域別原油輸入割合（数量ベース）
中東 米国 アジア その他
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」

60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
地域別・原油輸入価格の推移
世界 中東 米国
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」
（ドル／バレル）
（年・月）  
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2201 2204 2207 2210 2301 2304 2307 2310 2401 2404 2407 2410 2501 2504 2507 2510 2601 2604 2607
ドバイ原油
入着ベース
原油価格（ドバイと入着ベース）の推移（   /    ）
（注）入着    は円/      を   /    に換算したもの。ドバイ原油の26年9月は9/1～9/15の平均
（資料）財務省「貿易統計」
（年・月）

### Page 3

2． 原油を中心に輸入数量が増加 
26 年 8 の輸出数量指数を地域別に見ると、米国向けが前年比19.7％（7 月：同20.4％）、EU 向け
が前年比 2.0％（7 月：同 6.8％） 、アジア向けが前年比1.1％（7 月：同 4.6％）、うち中国向けが
前年比▲1.2％（7 月：同3.2％）となった。 
26 年 8 月の地域別輸出数量指数を季節調整値（当研究所による試算値） でみると、 米国向けが前
月比 0.0％（7 月：同2.0％） 、EU 向けが前月比▲0.3％（7 月：同▲0.9％） 、アジア向けが前月比▲
0.6％（7 月 ： 同1.3％） 、 うち中国向けが前月比▲1.1％（7 月 ： 同10.0％） 、 全体では前月比▲0.9％
（7 月：同1.0％）となった。 
26 年 7、8 月の平均を26 年 4-6 月期と比較すると、EU 向けは▲1.1％低いが、米国向けは2.9％、
アジア向けは 0.7％、中国向けは 7.9％、全体は
0.4％高い。EU 向けはやや弱いが、 低迷が続いて
いた中国向けが持ち直すなど、 輸出は総じて堅調
となっている。 
ただし、原油輸入量の増加を主因として 7、8
月平均の輸入数量（当研究所による季節調整値）
は 4-6 月期を 3.3％上回っている。7-9 月期のＧ
ＤＰ統計の外需寄与度は輸入の大幅増加を主因
としてマイナスに転じる可能性が高い。

---
## Document 720: 資金循環統計（26年4-6月期）～個人金融資産は2519兆円と初の2500兆円突破、前年比251兆円の大幅増を記録

Source PDF: all report pdf/資金循環統計（26年4-6月期）～個人金融資産は2519兆円と初の2500兆円突破、前年比251兆円の大幅増を記録.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-17
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1． 個人金融資産（26 年 6 月末）：前年比 251 兆円増、前期末比 113 兆円増  
2026 年 6 月末の個人金融資産残高は、前年比 251 兆円増（11.0％増）の 2519 兆円となった1。残高は
過去最高であった 3 月末（改定後）を上回り、過去最高を大きく更新した。年間で見た場合、資金の純流入
が 25 兆円あったのに加え、株高・円安が進んだことで時価変動2の影響がプラス 226 兆円（うち国内株式等
がプラス 160 兆円、投資信託がプラス 38 兆円）発生し、資産残高を大きく押し上げた。 
 次に四半期ベースで見ると、個人金融資産は前期末（3 月末）比で 113 兆円増と大きく増加した。例年、
4-6 月期は一般的な賞与支給月を含むことから資金の純流入が進みやすい傾向があり、今回も 15 兆円の
純流入があった。さらに、堅調な企業業績を背景に、株価が急騰したことで、時価変動の影響がプラス 98
兆円（うち国内株式等がプラス 61 兆円、投資信託がプラス 24 兆円）発生し、資産残高の急増に繋がった
（図表 1～4）。

2208 2227 
2406 
2237 2197 2247 2227 2269 2318 
2392 2406 
2519 
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
15
16
17
18
19
20
21
22
23
24
25
24/2Q
24/3Q
24/4Q
25/1Q
25/2Q
25/3Q
25/4Q
26/1Q
26/2Q
その他
保険・年金・定額保証
株式等
投資信託
債務証券
現金・預金
（図表1） 家計の金融資産残高(グロス）（兆円）
（資料）日本銀行
(年末）
（四半期末）

10
1
24
-15
15
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
24/2Q 24/3Q 24/4Q 25/1Q 25/2Q 25/3Q 25/4Q 26/1Q 26/2Q
現金・預金 債務証券 投資信託 株式等 保険・年金・定額保証 その他
（図表２） 家計の金融資産増減(フローの動き）（兆円）
（資料）日本銀行 （四半期）  
32 
48 49
30
98
-40
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
24/2Q 24/3Q 24/4Q 25/1Q 25/2Q 25/3Q 25/4Q 26/1Q 26/2Q
現金・預金 債務証券 投資信託
株式等 保険・年金・定額保証 その他
（図表３） 家計の金融資産残高(時価変動）（兆円）
（資料）日本銀行 （四半期）

130
135
140
145
150
155
160
165
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
24/10 25/1 4 7 10 26/1 4 7
東証株価指数 第一部総合（TOPIX）
ドル円レート（右メモリ）
（円/ドル）
（資料）日本銀行、東京証券取引所
（図表４） 株価と円相場の推移（月次終値）
（年/月）
26年
4-6月
（注）直近は2026年9月16日時点

1 今回、2025 年 4～6 月期以降の計数が遡及改定されている。 
2 統計上の表現は 「調整額」 （フローとストックの差額） だが、 本稿ではわかりやすさを重視し、 「時価 （変動） 」 と表記。 
ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-09-17 
資金循環統計（26 年 4-6 月期） 
～個人金融資産は 2519 兆円と初の 2500 兆円突
破、前年比 251 兆円の大幅増を記録

### Page 2

また、家計の金融資産（グロス）は、既述のとおり 4-6
月期に 113 兆円増加したが、この間に金融負債が 2 兆
円増加したため、金融資産から負債を控除した純資産
残高は 3 月末比で 111 兆円増の 2103 兆円となってい
る（図表 6）。

足元の 7-9 月期については、一般的な賞与支給月
を含まないことから、例年、資金の純流入が停滞する傾
向がある。さらに、足元の株価（TOPIX）は 6 月末から伸
び悩み、円高がやや進んだことから （図表 4）、時価変
動の影響も限られると推測される。 
従って、今月末にかけて市場が安定的に推移した場合、9 月末時点の個人金融資産残高は6 月末時点
と大差ない水準で着地するとみられる。

２．家計の資金流出入の詳細： 流動性預金の純流入は低迷、投信・国債へのシフトが目立つ 
4-6 月期の個人金融資産への資金流出入について詳細を 確認すると（図表 7）、例年同様、季節要因
（賞与の有無等）によって現預金が純流入（5.9 兆円）となった。ただし、4-6 月期としての純流入の規模は
年々鈍化傾向にある。 
現預金の内訳では、例年同様、流動性預金(普通預金など)が純流入となったが、その規模は 5.5 兆円
に留まった（図表 8）。一昨年までは、4-6 月期において10 兆円を優に超える純流入があったが、昨年以降
は鈍化が鮮明になっている。実質金利の低い資産であるだけに、 インフレによる価値の目減り懸念が 影響
しているとみられる。 
一方、定期性預金（定期預金など）は 0.7 兆円の純流入となり、3 四半期ぶりに純流入に転じた。普通預
金と比べた金利水準の高さが訴求力に繋がったとみられる。ただし、流入額は前年同期（2.2 兆円）を下回
っており、加速感はみられない。他資産との競合が影響していると考えられる。

次に、リスク性資産等への投資フロー（時価の変動は含まない）を確認すると（図表 7）、まず代表格であ
る株式等が 0.2 兆円の純流出となった。純流出は 5 四半期連続となる。もともと個人投資家は逆張り志向が
強いことから、株価の高騰を受けて、利益確定売りが進んだと推測される。 
一方、投資信託は 4.0 兆円の純流入となり、1-3 月期（4.7 兆円の純流入）に続いて大幅な純流入となっ
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
21/1Q 3Q 22/1Q 3Q 23/1Q 3Q 24/1Q 3Q 25/1Q 3Q 26/1Q
（前年比：％）
（年/四半期）
（図表５）家計 金融資産残高の伸び率（名目・実質）
名目 実質
（資料）日本銀行よりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（注）実質化には、CPI（帰属家賃を除く総合）を使用

200
250
300
350
400
450
500
1400
1600
1800
2000
2200
2400
2600
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（兆円）（兆円）
（年）
（図表６）家計の金融資産と金融純資産
純資産 資産 負債（右軸）
（資料）日本銀行

### Page 3

-5
0
5
10
15
家計資産計
現金・預金
債務証券
投資信託受益証券
株式等
保険・年金・定額保証
その他
（兆円） （図表７）家計資産のフロー（各年4-6月期）
2024年 2025年 2026年
（資料）日本銀行
内訳

-5
0
5
10
15
現金・預金
現金
流動性預金
定期性預金
譲渡性預金
外貨預金
（兆円） （図表８）現・預金のフロー（各年4-6月期）
2024年 2025年 2026年
（資料）日本銀行
内訳  
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
21/1Q
3Q
22/1Q
3Q
23/1Q
3Q
24/1Q
3Q
25/1Q
3Q
26/1Q
（兆円）
（年/四半期）
（図表９）家計資産のフロー（４四半期累計フロー）
現金 流動性預金 定期性預金 投資信託 株式 その他 金融資産計
（資料）日本銀行「資金循環統計」よりニッセイ基礎研究所作成

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
21 22 23 24 25 26
（％）
（年）
（図表10）現預金の個人金融資産に占める割合
現金ほか 定期性預金 流動性預金 現預金計
（資料）日本銀行

その他資産では、国内預金に対する金利面での優位性が高まっている国債（1.9 兆円の純流入）や事業
債（0.3 兆円の純流入）への資金流入が目立つ。 
全体を俯瞰すると、インフレによる資産の目減り圧力が続く中、リスク許容度に応じて、「新 NISA を活用し
て高いリターンが狙える投資信託等」や、「低リスク資産の中で金利が相対的に高い国債・定期預金等」へ
のシフトが進んでいる。

なお、現預金が個人金融資産全体に占める割合は、6 月末で 44.9％（3 月末は 46.8％）と引き続き低下し
た（図表 10）。同比率の低下は7 四半期連続となる。近年、株高・円安が進み、時価の上昇を通じて資産残
高が大きく押し上げられたことが主因だ。また、インフレなどを受けて現預金への資金流入が伸び悩み、投
資信託等へのシフトが発生したことも影響している。

３．その他注目点： 企業の資金余剰は高止まり、日銀の国債保有割合はさらに低下 
4-6 月期の資金過不足（季節調整値）を主要部門別にみると（図表 11）、AI 関連需要や価格転嫁等に伴
う好調な収益を背景として、民間非金融法人（企業）の資金余剰が 7.7 兆円（前期は 9.1 兆円）と高止まりし
た。一方、家計は 3.8 兆円の資金余剰（前期は 4.5 兆円の資金不足）と 2 四半期ぶりに余剰に転じたが、
前期と合わせて考えると、余剰感は乏しい。 
なお、政府部門は 4.4 兆円の資金不足となり（前期は 1.7 兆円の資金余剰）、2 四半期ぶりに不足に転じ
た。海外部門は 7.6 兆円の資金不足（前期は 9.7 兆円の資金不足）と引き続き大幅な資金不足であった。

### Page 4

5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
45
50
55
21 22 23 24 25 26
（％）
（年）
（図表12）国債保有シェア
預金取扱機関 日銀 海外 保険・年金基金 日銀（国庫短期証券除く）
（資料）日本銀行 （注）国債は、国庫短期証券と国債・財投債の合計

6 月末における国債（国庫短期証券を含む時価ベース）の発行残高は 1142 兆円と、3 月末から 8 兆円
減少した。国債利回りの上昇によって、時価が 14 兆円目減りしたためだ。 
最大の保有者である日銀の国債保有高は 6 月末時点で 470 兆円と 3 月末から 15 兆円減少した。日銀
が段階的に長期国債の買入れ減額を進めているほか、金利上昇による時価の目減りが3 兆円発生したこと
も押し下げに働いた。 
この結果、日銀の国債保有シェアは 41.2％と 3 月末（42.2％）をやや下回った（図表 12）。日銀の保有シ
ェアは 2023 年末をピークとして緩やかな低下が続いている。また、1 年超の長期国債に限った場合も、日
銀の保有シェアは 46.7％（3 月末は 47.9％）と緩やかに低下している。 
日銀が長期国債の半分近くを保有する圧倒的な存在である点に変わりはないが、その存在感は徐々に
後退しつつある。そして、これまで日銀の保有額減少を肩代わり してきたのは、主に預金取扱機関や海外
投資家、公的年金という構図になっている。

本誌記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本誌は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。
