# Financial Report Source 17

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 114: 260915_ubs_powertech

Source PDF: all report pdf/260915_ubs_powertech.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 12
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

ab 15 September 2026
Global Research
First Read
Powertech T echnology
2026 T aiwan Summit: FOPLP to see more
revenue contribution from 2027F
FOPLP business supported by AMD and Broadcom
PTI attended our T aiwan Summit on Sep 14th. Management noted its  FOPLP capacity in
T aiwan will be at 6K substrate/month (3K in 2026 and add another 3K in 2027 with full
ramp in 2028) with panel substrate size of 510 mm x 515 mm. Management noted  most
of the capacity in T aiwan is allocated to AMD, which it will start from the  game-console

products and then target to enter server CPU. For the Broadcom business, PTI has
previously announced a JV with Broadcom in Singapore, where it will invest US$400mn
into the JV for 30% stake, after receiving regulatory approvals in Q426. The JV will focus
on Broadcom's next generation networking products and will help it to enter into optical
communication field.  It has not disclosed the total investment amount and planned
capacity for the Singapore JV fab, but we believe the planned capacity  could be 2-3x

versus its scale in T aiwan. The JV is expected to start mass production from 2028 and PTI
will be in charged of the fab operations. Nevertheless, PTI also acknowledges that
TSMC's CoPoS will not only lead to potential competition, but could  also have some
impact on the equipment supply schedule.
Memory-backed price hike should continue
PTI's August sales of NT$8,558mn was up 3.5% MoM and 24.5% YoY. QTD sales is
tracking to 69%/68% of UBSe/Street estimates of +5%/+6% QoQ. Management noted

its  back-end loading is already at 90% and it has been selective on customer programs
for better ASP products. Management also expects back-end ASP should continue to
increase, driven primarily by higher labor costs and rising component prices. At the same
time, the pressure to lower its ASPs and  share the profit from yield improvement has
eased. Relative to peers, PTI noted it has been less aggressive in implementing price
increases, but has increased the frequency of price negotiation with its customer. As a

result, its gross margin for  memory packaging and test should continue to trend higher
in the coming quarters.
Capex will remain elevated in 2026-27F
Management reiterate its 2026F capex guidance of NT$50bn and believes its capex in
2027F will remain elevated. It aims to use its internal cash flow and bank loans to
support the capex, and remains committed to keep its  dividend payout at ~60%. Full
year  revenue for 2026F is likely to surpass its prior peak in 2022 (i.e. NT$83.9bn),

although it believes  market expectation of NT$100bn in 2026E could be too stretched.
Valuation: Retain NEUTRAL with PT of NT$260
We retain NEUTRAL on PTI with PT of NT$260, based on 17x 2027 PE. We will continue
to monitor its progress on FOPLP/CPO and price improvement sustainability.
Highlights (NT$m) 12/23 12/24 12/25 12/26E 12/27E 12/28E 12/29E 12/30E
Revenues 70,441 73,315 74,929 93,254 103,336 113,425 119,285 125,212
EBIT (UBS) 8,154 9,382 8,132 14,204 17,028 19,599 21,151 22,443

Net earnings (UBS) 8,009 6,789 5,536 9,298 11,259 13,159 14,453 15,632
EPS (UBS, diluted) (NT$) 10.72 9.08 7.47 12.58 15.24 17.81 19.56 21.16
DPS (net) (NT$) 8.81 8.20 8.43 4.60 6.29 7.62 8.91 9.78
Net (debt) / cash (2,751) 3,510 (13,741) (39,950) (53,160) (54,987) (47,076) (37,277)
Profitability/valuation 12/23 12/24 12/25 12/26E 12/27E 12/28E 12/29E 12/30E
EBIT (UBS) margin % 11.6 12.8 10.9 15.2 16.5 17.3 17.7 17.9
ROIC (EBIT) % 14.0 13.6 10.8 14.1 13.1 13.3 13.7 14.4

EV/EBITDA (UBS core) x 3.7 5.9 5.9 8.8 7.8 6.8 6.4 6.0
P/E (UBS, diluted) x 9.4 17.0 18.0 21.6 17.8 15.2 13.9 12.8
Equity FCF (UBS) yield % 14.2 10.0 (8.9) (12.1) (5.4) 0.6 5.8 7.0
Dividend yield (net) % 8.7 5.3 6.3 1.7 2.3 2.8 3.3 3.6
Source: Company accounts, LSEG Eikon, UBS estimates. Metrics marked as (UBS) have had analyst adjustments applied. Valuations: based on an average share price that year, (E): based on a share
price of NT$ 271.50 on 14-Sep-2026 22:34:06 CST

Equities
T aiwan
Semiconductors
12-month rating Neutral
12m price target NT$260.00
Price (14 Sep 2026) NT$271.50
RIC: 6239.TW BBG: 6239 TT
Trading data and key metrics
52-wk range NT$379.00-140.00
Market cap. NT$206b/US$6.48b
Shares o/s 759m (ORD)
Free float 90%
Avg. daily volume ('000) 21,958
Avg. daily value (m) NT$6,654.3
Common s/h equity (12/26E) NT$62.5b
P/BV (12/26E) 3.2x
Net debt to EBITDA (12/26E) 1.4x
UBS Cons.
EPS (UBS, diluted) (NT$)
12/26E 12.58 12.57

12/27E 15.24 17.94
12/28E 17.81 20.75
Jerry Su
Analyst
jerry.su@ubs.com
+886-28-722 7306
Annie Chen
Associate Analyst
annie.chen@ubs.com
+886-2-8722 7281

### Page 2

Forecast returns
Forecast price appreciation -4.2%
Forecast dividend yield 1.7%
Forecast stock return -2.6%
Market return assumption 6.3%
Forecast excess return -8.9%
Company Description
Powertech is a semiconductor back-end supplier with 75-80% of its sales from DRAM and
NAND packaging and testing and has been growing its logic back-end business.
Valuation Method and Risk Statement
Powertech: We value Powertech using PE methodology.
Upside/downside risks: 1) A stronger/weaker pricing environment; 2) slower-than expected

tech end demand and memory market recovery; and 3) faster/slower ramp of FOPLP and CPO
businesses.

### Page 3

Quantitative Research Review
UBS Global Research publishes a quantitative assessment of its analysts' responses to certain questions about the likelihood of an occurrence
of a number of short term factors in a product known as the 'Quantitative Research Review'.  The views for this month can be found below.
Views contained in this assessment on a particular stock reflect only the views on those short term factors which are a different timeframe to

the 12-month timeframe reflected in any equity rating set out in this note.  For previous responses please make reference to (i) previous UBS
Global Research reports; and (ii) where no applicable research report was published that month, the Quantitative Research Review which can
be found at https://neo.ubs.com/quantitative, or contact your UBS sales representative for access to the report or the Quantitative Research
T eam on ubs-quant-answers@ubs.com. A consolidated report which contains all responses is also available and again you should contact your

UBS sales representative for details and pricing or the Quantitative Research T eam on the email above.
Powertech Technology
Question Response
1. Is the industry structure facing the firm likely to improve or deteriorate over the
next six months? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting worse, 3 = no change, 5 =
getting better, N/A = no view)
3
2. Is the regulatory/government environment facing the firm likely to improve or
deteriorate over the next six months? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting tougher

3 = no change, 5 = getting better, N/A = no view)
3
3. Over the last 3-6 months in broad terms have things been improving/no
change/getting worse for this stock? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting a lot
worse, 3 = not much change, 5 = getting a lot better, N/A = no view)
3
4. Relative to the current CONSENSUS EPS forecast, is the next company EPS
update likely to lead to:  (1 = negative surprise vs consensus, 3 = in-line with
consensus, 5 = positive surprise vs consensus expectations, N/A = no view)

3
5. What’s driving the difference?
6. Relative to YOUR current earnings forecast, is there relatively greater risk at the
next earnings result of:(1 = downside skew risk to earnings, 3 = equal upside or
downside risk to earnings, 5 = upside skew risk to earnings, N/A = no view)
3
7. What’s driving the difference?
8. Is there an upcoming catalyst for the company over the next three months?                                     No Catalyst
9. Is there an actual or approximate date for the catalyst?

10. Is the catalyst date an actual or approximate date?                                     N/A
11. What is the catalyst?

### Page 4

reliable indicator of future results. Additional information will be made available upon request. UBS Securities Co. Limited is licensed to
conduct securities investment consultancy businesses by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. UBS acts or may act as principal
in the debt securities (or in related derivatives) that may be the subject of this report. This recommendation was finalized on: 14
September 2026 04:24 PM GMT . UBS has designated certain UBS Global Research department members as Derivatives Research

Analysts where those department members publish research principally on the analysis of the price or market for a derivative, and
provide information reasonably sufficient upon which to base a decision to enter into a derivatives transaction. Where Derivatives
Research Analysts co-author research reports with Equity Research Analysts or Economists, the Derivatives Research Analyst is
responsible for the derivatives investment views, forecasts, and/or recommendations. Quantitative Research Review: UBS Global

Research publishes a quantitative assessment of its analysts' responses to certain questions about the likelihood of an occurrence of a
number of short term factors in a product known as the 'Quantitative Research Review'. Views contained in this assessment on a
particular stock reflect only the views on those short term factors which are a different timeframe to the 12-month timeframe reflected
in any equity rating set out in this note. For the latest responses, please see the Quantitative Research Review Addendum at the back of

this report, where applicable. For previous responses please make reference to (i) previous UBS Global Research reports; and (ii) where
no applicable research report was published that month, the Quantitative Research Review which can be found at https://
neo.ubs.com/quantitative, or contact your UBS sales representative for access to the report or the Quantitative Research T eam on ubs-
quant-answers@ubs.com.  A consolidated report which contains all responses is also available and again you should contact your UBS

Each research analyst primarily responsible for the content of this research report, in whole or in part, certifies that with respect to each
security or issuer that the analyst covered in this report: (1) all of the views expressed accurately reflect his or her personal views about
those securities or issuers and were prepared in an independent manner, including with respect to UBS, and (2) no part of his or her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to the specific recommendations or views expressed by that research

analyst in the research report.
UBS Global Research: Global Equity Rating Definitions
12-Month Rating Definition Coverage1 IB Services2
Buy FSR is > 6% above the MRA. 55% 24%
Neutral FSR is between -6% and 6% of the MRA. 40% 21%
Sell FSR is > 6% below the MRA. 6% 21%
Source: UBS. Rating allocations are as of 30 June 2026.
1:Percentage of companies under coverage globally within the 12-month rating category.
2:Percentage of companies within the 12-month rating category for which investment banking (IB) services were provided within the

past 12 months.
KEY DEFINITIONS:Forecast Stock Return (FSR) is defined as expected percentage price appreciation plus gross dividend yield over
the next 12 months. In some cases, this yield may be based on accrued dividends. Market Return Assumption (MRA) is defined as
the one-year local market interest rate plus 5% (a proxy for, and not a forecast of, the equity risk premium). Under Review (UR)
Stocks may be flagged as UR by the analyst, indicating that the stock's price target and/or rating are subject to possible change in the

near term, usually in response to an event that may affect the investment case or valuation. Equity Price Targets have an investment
horizon of 12 months.
EXCEPTIONS AND SPECIAL CASES:UK and European Investment Fund ratings and definitions are: Buy:  Positive on factors
such as structure, management, performance record, discount; Neutral: Neutral on factors such as structure, management,
performance record, discount; Sell: Negative on factors such as structure, management, performance record, discount. Core

### Page 5

Company Name Reuters 12-month rating Price Price date
Powertech Technology 6239.TW Neutral NT$271.50 14 Sep 2026
Source: UBS Global Research; LSEG Eikon. All prices as of local market close. Ratings in this table are the most current
published ratings prior to this report. They may be more recent than the stock pricing date.
Unless otherwise indicated, please refer to the Valuation and Risk sections within the body of this report. For a complete set of

contact UBS Securities LLC, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, USA, Attention: Investment Research.
Powertech Technology (NT$)
Price Target (NT$) Stock Price (NT$)
0
80
160
240
320
400
Neutral
Sell
No Rating
Date Stock Price (NT$) Price Target (NT$) Rating
2023-06-14 101.50 - No Rating
2023-11-16 108.50 111.00 Neutral
2024-01-05 133.00 123.00 Sell
2024-01-30 148.50 128.50 Sell
2024-04-22 169.00 132.00 Sell
2024-07-29 173.50 120.00 Sell
2024-10-27 135.00 109.00 Sell

2026-01-30 254.00 275.00 Neutral
2026-04-28 218.50 240.00 Neutral
2026-07-28 251.50 260.00 Neutral
Source: UBS Global Research; LSEG Eikon as of 14-Sep-2026. All prices as of local market close. Ratings as of date shown.
Additional Prices: Broadcom Inc., US$361.99 (11 Sep 2026); T aiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, NT$2380.00 (14 Sep 2026);
Advanced Micro Devices Inc, US$516.13 (11 Sep 2026); Source: UBS. All prices as of local market close.

### Page 6

former Credit Suisse AG and its subsidiaries, branches and affiliates are referred to herein as "UBS".
Any opinions expressed in this document may change without notice and are only current as of the date of publication. Different areas, groups, and personnel
within UBS may produce and distribute separate research products independently of each other. For example, research publications from UBS CIO are produced
by UBS Global Wealth Management. UBS Global Research is produced by UBS Investment Bank. Research methodologies and rating systems of each separate

research organization may differ, for example, in terms of investment recommendations, investment horizon, model assumptions, and valuation methods. As a
consequence, except for certain economic forecasts (for which UBS CIO and UBS Global Research may collaborate), investment recommendations, ratings, price
targets, and valuations provided by each of the separate research organizations may be different, or inconsistent. You should refer to each relevant research

product for the details as to their methodologies and rating system. Not all clients may have access to all products from every organization. Each research product
is subject to the policies and procedures of the organization that produces it.
This document is provided solely to recipients who are expressly authorized by UBS to receive it. If you are not so authorized you must
immediately destroy the document.
UBS Global Research is provided to our clients through UBS Neo, and in certain instances, UBS.com and any other system or distribution method specifically

identified in one or more communications distributed through UBS Neo or UBS.com (each a system) as an approved means for distributing UBS Global Research.
It may also be made available through third party vendors and distributed by UBS and/or third parties via e-mail or alternative electronic means.
All UBS Global Research is available on UBS Neo. Please contact your UBS sales representative if you wish to discuss your access to UBS Neo. Where UBS Global

Research refers to "UBS Evidence Lab Inside" or has made use of data provided by UBS Evidence Lab and you would like to access that data please contact your
UBS sales representative. UBS Evidence Lab data is available on UBS Neo. The level and types of services provided by UBS Global Research and UBS Evidence Lab to
a client may vary depending upon various factors such as a client's individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communications, a client's

risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g., market wide, sector specific, long-term, short-term, etc.), the size and scope of the overall client
relationship with UBS Global Research and UBS Evidence Lab and legal and regulatory constraints. UBS HOLT and UBS Pharma Values are offerings of UBS Global
Research. HOLT Lens is a corporate performance platform offering that provides an objective accounting-led framework for comparing and valuing companies

and is available to clients of UBS Global Research; for further details and pricing please contact your UBS Sales representative. In particular, HOLT has a variety of
warranted prices based on the scenario chosen; please mail UBS Securities LLC, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, USA, Attention: Investment Research,
if you are interested in the warranted price on a particular company, again subject to commercial considerations. UBS Pharma Values is an analytical tool that

and to the UBS Neo Platform Use Agreement (the "Neo T erms") together with any other relevant terms of use governing the applicable System.
When you receive UBS Global Research via a third party vendor, e-mail or other electronic means, you agree that use shall be subject to this UBS Global Research
Disclaimer, the Neo T erms and where applicable the UBS Investment Bank terms of business (https://www.ubs.com/global/en/investment-bank/regulatory.html)

and using cookies in accordance with our Privacy Statement (https://www.ubs.com/global/en/legalinfo2/privacy.html) and cookie notice (https://www.ubs.com/
global/en/legal/privacy/users.html).
If you receive UBS Global Research, whether through a System or by any other means, you agree that you shall not copy, revise, amend, create a
derivative work, provide to any third party, or in any way commercially exploit any UBS research provided via UBS Global Research or otherwise,

not be treated as a “client” of UBS for any legal or regulatory purpose; (iii) the UBS Global Research must not be relied on or acted upon for any purpose; and (iv)
such content is subject to the relevant disclaimers that follow.
This document is for distribution only as may be permitted by law. It is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen
or resident of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or

regulation or would subject UBS to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction.
This document is a general communication and is educational in nature; it is not an advertisement nor is it a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any financial
instruments or to participate in any particular trading strategy. Nothing in this document constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or
recommendation is suitable or appropriate to an investor’s individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. By providing this

document, none of UBS or its representatives has any responsibility or authority to provide or have provided investment advice in a fiduciary capacity or otherwise.
Investments involve risks, and investors should exercise prudence and their own judgment in making their investment decisions. None of UBS or its representatives
is suggesting that the recipient or any other person take a specific course of action or any action at all. The recipient should carefully read this document in its

entirety and not draw inferences or conclusions from the rating alone. By receiving this document, the recipient acknowledges and agrees with the intended
purpose described above and further disclaims any expectation or belief that the information constitutes investment advice to the recipient or otherwise purports
to meet the investment objectives of the recipient. The financial instruments described in the document may not be eligible for sale in all jurisdictions or to certain

categories of investors.
Options, structured derivative products and futures (including OTC derivatives) are not suitable for all investors. Trading in these instruments is considered risky
and may be appropriate only for sophisticated investors. Prior to buying or selling an option, and for the complete risks relating to options, you must receive a
copy of "The Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options." You may read the document at https://www.theocc.com/publications/risks/riskchap1.jsp or ask

future results. Transaction costs may be significant in option strategies calling for multiple purchases and sales of options, such as spreads and straddles. Because
of the importance of tax considerations to many options transactions, the investor considering options should consult with his/her tax advisor as to how taxes
affect the outcome of contemplated options transactions.
Mortgage and asset-backed securities may involve a high degree of risk and may be highly volatile in response to fluctuations in interest rates or other market

conditions. Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect the value, price or income of any security or related instrument referred to in the document.
For investment advice, trade execution or other enquiries, clients should contact their local sales representative.
UBS notes that no globally accepted framework or definition (legal, regulatory or otherwise) currently exists, nor is there a market consensus as to what
constitutes an “ESG” (Environmental, Social or Governance) or an equivalent-label, or as to what precise attributes are required for the Information (as defined

below) to be defined as ESG or equivalently-labelled. Any information, data or other content including from a third party source contained, referred to herein or
used for whatsoever purpose by UBS or a third party (“Information”), in relation to any actual or potential ESG objective, issue or consideration is not intended to
be relied upon for ESG classification, regulatory regime or industry initiative purposes (“ESG Regimes”). Nothing in these materials is intended to convey, suggest

or indicate that UBS considers or represents any product, service, person or body mentioned in these materials as meeting or qualifying for any ESG classification,
labelling or similar standards that may exist under the ESG Regimes. UBS has not conducted any assessment of compliance with ESG Regimes. Parties are
reminded to make their own assessments for these purposes.
The value of any investment or income may go down as well as up, and investors may not get back the full (or any) amount invested. Past performance is not

necessarily a guide to future performance. Neither UBS nor any of its directors, employees or agents accepts any liability for any loss (including investment loss) or
damage arising out of the use of all or any of the Information.
Prior to making any investment or financial decisions, any recipient of this document or the information should take steps to understand the risk and return of the
investment and seek individualized advice from his or her personal financial, legal, tax and other professional advisors that takes into account all the particular

materials to which this document relates (the "Information"), except with respect to Information concerning UBS. The Information is not intended to be a

### Page 7

complete statement or summary of the securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. UBS does not undertake to update or keep current the
Information. Any statements contained in this report attributed to a third party represent UBS's interpretation of the data, information and/or opinions provided
by that third party either publicly or through a subscription service, and such use and interpretation have not been reviewed by the third party. In no circumstances

may this document or any of the Information (including any forecast, value, index or other calculated amount ("Values")) be used for any of the following
purposes:
(i) valuation or accounting purposes;
(ii) to determine the amounts due or payable, the price or the value of any financial instrument or financial contract; or
(iii) to measure the performance of any financial instrument including, without limitation, for the purpose of tracking the return or performance of any Value or of

defining the asset allocation of portfolio or of computing performance fees.
By receiving this document and the Information you will be deemed to represent and warrant to UBS that you will not use this document or any of the Information
for any of the above purposes or otherwise rely upon this document or any of the Information.
UBS has policies and procedures, which include, without limitation, independence policies and permanent information barriers, that are intended, and upon

which UBS relies, to manage potential conflicts of interest and control the flow of information within divisions of UBS and among its subsidiaries, branches and
affiliates. UBS does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may have a
conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should consider this report as only a single factor in making their investment decision.

UBS Global Research will initiate, update and cease coverage solely at the discretion of UBS Global Research Management, which will also have sole discretion on
the timing and frequency of any published research product. The analysis contained in this document is based on numerous assumptions. All material information
in relation to published research reports, such as valuation methodology, risk statements, underlying assumptions (including sensitivity analysis of those

assumptions), ratings history etc. as required by the Market Abuse Regulation, can be found on UBS Neo. Different assumptions could result in materially different
results.
UBS Global Research may utilise artificial intelligence tools (“AI T ools”) in the preparation of this document. Notwithstanding any such use of AI T ools, this
document has undergone human review.
The analyst(s) responsible for the preparation of this document may interact with trading desk personnel, sales personnel and other parties for the purpose of

gathering, applying and interpreting market information. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow of information contained in one or more areas
within UBS into other areas, units, groups or affiliates of UBS. The compensation of the analyst who prepared this document is determined exclusively by UBS
Global Research management and senior management (not including investment banking). Analyst compensation is not based on investment banking revenues;

however, compensation may relate to the revenues of UBS and/or its divisions as a whole, of which investment banking, sales and trading are a part, and UBS as
a whole.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on an EU regulated market: UBS (excluding UBS Securities LLC) acts as a market maker or liquidity provider (in
accordance with the interpretation of these terms under English law or, if not carried out by UBS in the UK the law of the relevant jurisdiction in which UBS

determines it carries out the activity) in the financial instruments of the issuer save that where the activity of liquidity provider is carried out in accordance with the
definition given to it by the laws and regulations of any other EU jurisdictions, such information is separately disclosed in this document. For financial instruments
admitted to trading on a non-EU regulated market: UBS may act as a market maker save that where this activity is carried out in the US in accordance with the

definition given to it by the relevant laws and regulations, such activity will be specifically disclosed in this document. UBS may have issued a warrant the value of
which is based on one or more of the financial instruments referred to in the document. UBS and its affiliates and employees may have long or short positions,
trade as principal and buy and sell in instruments or derivatives identified herein; such transactions or positions may be inconsistent with the opinions expressed in

this document.
Within the past 12 months UBS may have received or provided investment services and activities or ancillary services as per MiFID II which may have given rise to
a payment or promise of a payment in relation to these services from or to this company.
Please note that all transactions conducted by UBS are consistent with sanctions regulations imposed by Switzerland, the European Union, the United Nations, the
United Kingdom and the United States, per UBS' global sanctions policy. UBS opinion as to future investment worthiness assumes no new sanctions are imposed.

US persons are prohibited from purchasing or selling securities of certain companies designated as being associated with the Chinese Military in accordance with
the amended US Presidential Executive Order 13959.
United Kingdom: This material is distributed by UBS AG, London Branch to persons who are eligible counterparties or professional clients. UBS AG, London
Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential

Regulation Authority. Europe: Except as otherwise specified herein, these materials are distributed by UBS Europe SE, a subsidiary of UBS AG, to persons who are
eligible counterparties or professional clients (as detailed in the Bundesanstalt fur Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) Rules and according to MIFID) and are only
available to such persons. The information does not apply to, and should not be relied upon by, retail clients. UBS Europe SE is authorised by the European Central

contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE. In all cases it is distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS AG,
London Branch. Turkey: Distributed by UBS AG, London Branch. No information in this document is provided for the purpose of offering, marketing and sale by
any means of any capital market instruments and services in the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, this document may not be considered as an offer made or to be

made to residents of the Republic of Turkey. UBS AG, London Branch is not licensed by the Turkish Capital Market Board under the provisions of the Capital
Market Law (Law No. 6362). Accordingly, neither this document nor any other offering material related to the instruments/services may be utilized in connection
with providing any capital market services to persons within the Republic of Turkey without the prior approval of the Capital Market Board. However, according to

article 15 (d) (ii) of the Decree No. 32, there is no restriction on the purchase or sale of the securities abroad by residents of the Republic of Turkey. Poland:
Distributed by UBS Europe SE (spolka z ograniczona odpowiedzialnoscia) Oddzial w Polsce. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE (spolka z ograniczona
odpowiedzialnoscia) Oddzial w Polsce has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE (spolka z

Recommendation for the purpose of the Russian Law - Federal Law #39-FZ ON THE SECURITIES MARKET Articles 6.1-6.2.Switzerland: Distributed by UBS AG to
persons who are institutional investors only. UBS AG is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA). Italy: Prepared by UBS Europe SE
and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch has contributed to this document, the

document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch. France: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS
Europe SE, France Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, France Branch has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been
prepared by UBS Europe SE, France Branch.  Spain: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch. Where an

analyst of UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch.
Sweden: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch
has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch. South Africa: Distributed by UBS

South Africa (Pty) Limited (Registration No. 1995/011140/07), an authorised user of the JSE and an authorised Financial Services Provider (FSP 7328). Saudi
Arabia: This document has been issued by UBS AG (and/or any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates), a public company limited by shares, incorporated in
Switzerland with its registered offices at Aeschenvorstadt 1, CH-4051 Basel and Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH-8001 Zurich. This publication has been approved by UBS

Saudi Arabia (a subsidiary of UBS AG), a Saudi closed joint stock company incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia under commercial register number
1010257812 having its registered office at T atweer T owers, P .O. Box 75724, Riyadh 11588, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. UBS Saudi Arabia is authorized and
regulated by the Capital Market Authority to conduct securities business under license number 08113-37. UAE / Dubai: The information distributed by UBS AG

Dubai Branch is only intended for Professional Clients and/or Market Counterparties, as classified under the DFSA rulebook. No other person should act upon this
material/communication. The information is not for further distribution within the United Arab Emirates. UBS AG Dubai Branch is regulated by the DFSA in the
DIFC. UBS is not licensed to provide banking services in the UAE by the Central Bank of the UAE, nor is it licensed by the UAE Securities and Commodities

Authority.  Israel: This Material is distributed by UBS AG, London Branch. UBS Securities Israel Ltd is a licensed Investment Marketer that is supervised by the Israel
Securities Authority (ISA). UBS AG, London Branch and its affiliates incorporated outside Israel are not licensed under the Israeli Advisory Law. UBS may engage
among others in issuance of Financial Assets or in distribution of Financial Assets of other issuers for fees or other benefits. UBS AG, London Branch and its

affiliates may prefer various Financial Assets to which they have or may have an Affiliation (as such term is defined under the Israeli Advisory Law). Nothing in this
Material should be considered as investment advice under the Israeli Advisory Law. This Material is being issued only to and/or is directed only at persons who are
Eligible Clients within the meaning of the Israeli Advisory Law, and this Material must not be furnished to, relied on or acted upon by any other persons. United

States: Distributed to US persons by either UBS Securities LLC or by UBS Financial Services Inc., subsidiaries of UBS AG; or by a group, subsidiary or affiliate of UBS
AG that is not registered as a US broker-dealer (a ‘non-US affiliate’) to major US institutional investors only. UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial Services Inc.
accepts responsibility for the content of a report prepared by another non-US affiliate when distributed to US persons by UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial

Services Inc. All transactions by a US person in the securities mentioned in this report must be effected through UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial Services Inc.,
and not through a non-US affiliate. UBS Securities LLC is not acting as a municipal advisor to any municipal entity or obligated person within the meaning of
Section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Municipal Advisor Rule"), and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not

constitute, advice within the meaning of the Municipal Advisor Rule. Canada: Distributed by UBS Securities Canada Inc., a registered investment dealer in Canada

### Page 8

and a Member-Canadian Investor Protection Fund, or by another affiliate of UBS AG that is registered to conduct business in Canada or is otherwise exempt from
registration. Brazil: Except as otherwise specified herein, this Material is prepared by UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. (UBS BB
CCTVM) to persons who are eligible investors residing in Brazil, which are considered to be Professional Investors (Investidores Profissionais), as designated by the

applicable regulation, mainly the CVM Resolution No. 30 from the 11th of May 2021 (determines the duty to verify the suitability of products, services and
transactions with regards to the client´s profile). UBS BB CCTVM is a subsidiary of UBS BB Servicos de Assessoria Financeira e Participacoes S.A. (“UBS BB”). UBS BB
is an association between UBS AG and Banco do Brasil (through its subsidiary BB – Banco de Investimentos S.A.), of which UBS AG is the majority owner and

de Valores Mobiliarios (CVM) and by the Central Bank of Brazil. Ombudsman: 0800-940-0266/ https://www.ubs.com/br/pt/ubsbb-investment-bank/
ombudsman.html. UBS may hold relevant financial and commercial interest in relation to the company subject to this Research report. Hong Kong: Distributed
by UBS Securities Asia Limited. Please contact local licensed persons of UBS Securities Asia Limited in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with,

the analysis or document Singapore: Distributed by UBS Securities Pte. Ltd. [Co. Reg. No.: 198500648C] or UBS AG, Singapore Branch. Please contact UBS
Securities Pte. Ltd., an exempt financial adviser under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110); or UBS AG, Singapore Branch, an exempt financial adviser
under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110) and a wholesale bank licensed under the Singapore Banking Act (Cap. 19) regulated by the Monetary

Ltd. is the author, publisher and distributor of the report. Distributed by UBS AG, T okyo Branch to Professional Investors (except as otherwise permitted) in relation
to foreign exchange and other banking businesses when relevant. Australia: Recipients through a superannuation fund: Distributed by UBS AG, Australia Branch
(ABN 47 088 129 613 and holder of Australian Financial Service Licence No. 231087). For all other recipients: Distributed by UBS Securities Australia Limited (ABN

62 008 586 481 and holder of Australian Financial Services Licence No. 231098). This document contains general information and/or general advice only and
does not constitute personal financial product advice. As such, the Information in this document has been prepared without taking into account any investor’s
objectives, financial situation or needs, and investors should, before acting on the Information, consider the appropriateness of the Information, having regard to

New Zealand: Distributed by UBS New Zealand Ltd. UBS New Zealand Ltd is not a registered bank in New Zealand. You are being provided with this publication
or material because you have indicated to UBS that you are a “wholesale client” within the meaning of clause 4 of schedule 5 of the Financial Markets Conduct
Act 2013 of New Zealand (Permitted Client). This publication or material is not intended for clients who are not Permitted Clients (non-permitted Clients). If you

are a non-permitted Client you must not rely on this publication or material. If despite this warning you nevertheless rely on this publication or material, you
hereby (i) acknowledge that you may not rely on the content of this publication or material and that any recommendations or opinions in such this publication or
material are not made or provided to you, and (ii) to the maximum extent permitted by law (a) indemnify UBS and its associates or related entities (and their

respective Directors, officers, agents and Advisors) (each a ‘Relevant Person’) for any loss, damage, liability or claim any of them may incur or suffer as a result of,
or in connection with, your unauthorised reliance on this publication or material and (b) waive any rights or remedies you may have against any Relevant Person
for (or in respect of) any loss, damage, liability or claim you may incur or suffer as a result of, or in connection with, your unauthorised reliance on this publication

or material. Korea: Distributed in Korea by UBS Securities Pte. Ltd., Seoul Branch. This report may have been edited or contributed to from time to time by
affiliates of UBS Securities Pte. Ltd., Seoul Branch. This material is intended for professional/institutional clients only and not for distribution to any retail clients.
Malaysia: This material is authorized to be distributed in Malaysia by UBS Securities Malaysia Sdn. Bhd (Capital Markets Services License No.: CMSL/

A0063/2007). This material is intended for professional/institutional clients only and not for distribution to any retail clients. India: Distributed by UBS Securities
India Private Ltd. (Corporate Identity Number U67120MH1996PTC097299) Unit 2901, Level 29 Altimus, Pandurang Budhkar Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018. It
provides brokerage services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INZ000259830; Merchant Banking services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INM000013101;

and Research Analyst services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INH000001204. Name of Compliance Officer Mr. Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone :
+912261556151, Email : parameshwaran.s@ubs.com, Name of Grievance Officer Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone : +912261556151, Email: ol-ubs-
sec-compliance@ubs.com Registration granted by SEBI, and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or provide any
assurance of returns to investors. UBS may have debt holdings or positions in the subject Indian company/companies. UBS may have financial interests (e.g. loan/

derivative products, rights to or interests in investments, etc.) in the subject Indian company / companies from time to time. Within the past 12 months, UBS may
have received compensation for non-investment banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services from the subject Indian company/companies.
The subject company/companies may have been a client/clients of UBS during the 12 months preceding the date of distribution of the research report with

respect to investment banking and/or non-investment banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services. With regard to information on associates,
please refer to the Annual Report at: https://www.ubs.com/global/en/about_ubs/investor_relations/annualreporting.html The Research Annual Compliance
Report for UBS Securities India Private Limited is available on www.ubs.com/ubssi under Research tab. Taiwan: Except as otherwise specified herein, this material

distributed by UBS Securities Pte. LTD., T aipei Branch to professional institutional investors and/or persons permitted under applicable regulation. Unless permitted
by applicable T aiwan laws and regulations, this material is for reference and information only and should not constitute "recommendation" to clients or recipients
in T aiwan for the covered companies or any companies mentioned in this document. No portion of the document may be reprinted, reproduced or quoted by the

press or any other person without authorisation from UBS. Indonesia: This report is being distributed by PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia and is delivered by its
licensed employee(s), including marketing/sales person, to its client. PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia, having its registered office at Sequis T ower Level 22 unit 22-
1,Jl.Jend. Sudirman, kav.71, SCBD lot 11B, Jakarta 12190. Indonesia, is a subsidiary company of UBS AG and licensed under Capital Market Law no. 8 year 1995,

a holder of broker-dealer and underwriter licenses issued by the Capital Market and Financial Institution Supervisory Agency (now Otoritas Jasa Keuangan/OJK).
PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia is also a member of Indonesia Stock Exchange and supervised by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK). Neither this report nor any copy hereof
may be distributed in Indonesia or to any Indonesian citizens except in compliance with applicable Indonesian capital market laws and regulations. This report is

English law.
UBS specifically prohibits the redistribution of this document in whole or in part without the written permission of UBS and in any event UBS accepts no liability
whatsoever for any redistribution of this document or its contents or the actions of third parties in this respect. Images may depict objects or elements that are
protected by third party copyright, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. © UBS 2026. The key symbol and UBS are among the registered and

FINMA in Switzerland) or its affiliates ("UBS") with whom you have a banking relationship with. The full name of the distributing affiliate and its competent authority can be
found in the country-specific disclaimer at the end of this document. UBS may utilise artificial intelligence tools (“AI Tools”) in the preparation of this document.
Notwithstanding any such use of AI Tools, this document has undergone human review.
The date and time of the first dissemination of this publication is the same as the date and time of its publication.

Risk information:
You agree that you shall not copy, revise, amend, create a derivative work, provide to any third party, or in any way commercially exploit any UBS research, and that you shall
not extract data from any research or estimates, without the prior written consent of UBS.
This document is for distribution only as may be permitted by law. It is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident

of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or would subject
UBS to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction.
This document is for your information only; it is not an advertisement nor is it a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any financial instruments or to participate in any
particular trading strategy. Nothing in this document constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or recommendation is suitable or appropriate to an investor’s

individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. By providing this document, none of UBS or its representatives has any responsibility or
authority to provide or have provided investment advice in a fiduciary capacity or otherwise. Investments involve risks, and investors should exercise prudence and their own
judgment in making their investment decisions. None of UBS or its representatives is suggesting that the recipient or any other person take a specific course of action or any

action at all. By receiving this document, the recipient acknowledges and agrees with the intended purpose described above and further disclaims any expectation or belief
that the information constitutes investment advice to the recipient or otherwise purports to meet the investment objectives of the recipient. The financial instruments
described in the document may not be eligible for sale in all jurisdictions or to certain categories of investors.

Options, derivative products and futures are not suitable for all investors, and trading in these instruments is considered risky. Mortgage and asset-backed securities may
involve a high degree of risk and may be highly volatile in response to fluctuations in interest rates or other market conditions. Foreign currency rates of exchange may

### Page 9

guide to future performance. Neither UBS nor any of its directors, employees or agents accepts any liability for any loss (including investment loss) or damage arising out of
the use of all or any of the information (as defined below).
Prior to making any investment or financial decisions, any recipient of this document or the information should take steps to understand the risk and return of the investment
and seek individualized advice from his or her personal financial, legal, tax and other professional advisors that takes into account all the particular facts and circumstances of

which this document relates (the "Information"), except with respect to Information concerning UBS. The Information is not intended to be a complete statement or
summary of the securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. UBS does not undertake to update or keep current the Information. Any opinions expressed
in this document may change without notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by other business areas or groups, personnel or other representative of UBS.

Any statements contained in this report attributed to a third party represent UBS's interpretation of the data, information and/or opinions provided by that third party either
publicly or through a subscription service, and such use and interpretation have not been reviewed by the third party. In no circumstances may this document or any of the
Information (including any forecast, value, index or other calculated amount ("Values")) be used for any of the following purposes: (i) valuation or accounting purposes; (ii) to

determine the amounts due or payable, the price or the value of any financial instrument or financial contract; or (iii) to measure the performance of any financial instrument
including, without limitation, for the purpose of tracking the return or performance of any Value or of defining the asset allocation of portfolio or of computing performance
fees.
By receiving this document and the Information you will be deemed to represent and warrant to UBS that you will not use this document or any of the Information for any of

the above purposes or otherwise rely upon this document or any of the Information.
UBS has policies and procedures, which include, without limitation, independence policies and permanent information barriers, that are intended, and upon which UBS
relies, to manage potential conflicts of interest and control the flow of information within divisions of UBS (including between Global Wealth Management and UBS Global
Research) and among its subsidiaries, branches and affiliates. For further information on the ways in which UBS manages conflicts and maintains independence of its research

methodology.
Research will initiate, update and cease coverage solely at the discretion of research management, which will also have sole discretion on the timing and frequency of any
published research product. The analysis contained in this document is based on numerous assumptions. Different assumptions could result in materially different results.
The analyst(s) responsible for the preparation of this document may interact with trading desk personnel, sales personnel and other parties for the purpose of gathering,

applying and interpreting market information. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow of information contained in one or more areas within UBS into other
areas, units, groups or affiliates of UBS. The compensation of the analyst who prepared this document is determined exclusively by research management and senior
management (not including investment banking). Analyst compensation is not based on investment banking revenues; however, compensation may relate to the revenues of

UBS and/or its divisions as a whole, of which investment banking, sales and trading are a part, and UBS's subsidiaries, branches and affiliates as a whole.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on an EU regulated market: UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries (excluding UBS Securities LLC) acts as a market maker or
liquidity provider (in accordance with the interpretation of these terms in the UK) in the financial instruments of the issuer save that where the activity of liquidity provider is

carried out in accordance with the definition given to it by the laws and regulations of any other EU jurisdictions, such information is separately disclosed in this document.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on a non-EU regulated market: UBS may act as a market maker save that where this activity is carried out in the US in accordance
with the definition given to it by the relevant laws and regulations, such activity will be specifically disclosed in this document. UBS may have issued a warrant the value of

which is based on one or more of the financial instruments referred to in the document. UBS and its affiliates and employees may have long or short positions, trade as
principal and buy and sell in instruments or derivatives identified herein; such transactions or positions may be inconsistent with the opinions expressed in this document.
Options and futures are not suitable for all investors, and trading in these instruments is considered risky and may be appropriate only for sophisticated investors. Prior to

buying or selling an option, and for the complete risks relating to options, you must receive a copy of "Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options". You may read the
document at  https://www.theocc.com/about/publications/character-risks.jsp  or ask your financial advisor for a copy.
Investing in structured investments involves significant risks. For a detailed discussion of the risks involved in investing in any particular structured investment, you must read

the relevant offering materials for that investment. Structured investments are unsecured obligations of a particular issuer with returns linked to the performance of an
underlying asset. Depending on the terms of the investment, investors could lose all or a substantial portion of their investment based on the performance of the underlying
asset. Investors could also lose their entire investment if the issuer becomes insolvent. UBS does not guarantee in any way the obligations or the financial condition of any

issuer or the accuracy of any financial information provided by any issuer. Structured investments are not traditional investments and investing in a structured investment is
not equivalent to investing directly in the underlying asset. Structured investments may have limited or no liquidity, and investors should be prepared to hold their investment
to maturity. The return of structured investments may be limited by a maximum gain, participation rate or other feature. Structured investments may include call features and,

if a structured investment is called early, investors would not earn any further return and may not be able to reinvest in similar investments with similar terms. Structured
investments include costs and fees which are generally embedded in the price of the investment. The tax treatment of a structured investment may be complex and may differ
from a direct investment in the underlying asset. UBS and its employees do not provide tax advice. Investors should consult their own tax advisor about their own tax situation

before investing in any securities.
Important Information About Sustainable Investing Strategies: Sustainable investing strategies aim to consider and incorporate environmental, social and governance
(ESG) factors into investment process and portfolio construction. Strategies across geographies approach ESG analysis and incorporate the findings in a variety of ways.
Incorporating ESG factors or sustainable investing considerations may inhibit the portfolio manager’s ability to participate in certain investment opportunities that otherwise

would be consistent with its investment objective and other principal investment strategies. The returns on a portfolio incorporating ESG factors or sustainable investing
considerations may be lower or higher than portfolios where ESG factors, exclusions, or other sustainability issues are not considered by the portfolio manager, and the
investment opportunities available to such portfolios may differ.
Within the past 12 months UBS Switzerland AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have received or provided investment services and activities or ancillary services as per MiFID

External Asset Managers / External Financial Consultants : In case this research or publication is provided to an External Asset Manager or an External Financial
Consultant, UBS expressly prohibits that it is redistributed by the External Asset Manager or the External Financial Consultant and is made available to their clients and/or third
parties.
Argentina: All securities that will be offered to you by UBS are not authorized by the Argentine Securities and Exchange Commission (CNV) and are not subject to its

reporting, periodic information requirements, or oversight. Furthermore, the CNV has not reviewed or endorsed the information provided in any securities offering
document, nor the accuracy of any accounting, financial, economic data, or any other information disclosed therein, which remains the sole responsibility of the respective
issuer and the other parties involved. Australia: This document is provided by UBS Switzerland AG. UBS Switzerland AG does not hold an Australian Financial Services

Licence (AFSL) and relies on an exemption to provide financial services to persons in Australia. This document is intended only for distribution to wholesale clients under the
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). UBS Switzerland AG is a related body corporate of UBS AG, Australia Branch and UBS Securities Australia Limited. This document may be
distributed to clients by those entities, but it is provided by UBS Switzerland AG and is not provided under any of the other entities’ AFSL. The information in this document

is general in nature and is not intended to address the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular individual or entity. Each recipient should consider their own
objectives, financial situation or needs before acting on the advice and obtain the relevant Product Disclosure Statement (if required) before making any decision whether to
acquire any product. In Australia, UBS entities, other than UBS AG, Australia Branch, are not authorized deposit-taking institutions for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959

(Cth.) and their obligations do not represent deposits or other liabilities of UBS AG, Australia Branch. UBS AG, Australia Branch does not guarantee or otherwise provide
assurance in respect of the obligations of such UBS entities or the funds. An investor is exposed to investment risk including possible delays in repayment and loss of income
and principal invested, as relevant. If you do not wish to receive marketing materials from UBS, please contact your UBS representative or the contact details listed in the

### Page 10

a Foreign Branch of UBS AG, Zurich/Switzerland and is located on Level 21, East Tower, Bahrain World Trade Centre, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain. Brazil: This report is
distributed in Brazil by UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. or its affiliates (“UBS”). Pursuant to CVM Resolution No. 20/2021, of February 25,
2021, the author(s) of the report hereby certify(ies) that the views expressed in this report solely and exclusively reflect their personal opinions and have been prepared

independently, including with respect to UBS. Part of the author(s)´s compensation is based on various factors, including the total revenues of the relevant UBS Group entity
of which they are in employment of, but no part of the compensation has been, is, or will be related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report. In
addition, UBS declares that: UBS has provided, and/or may in the future provide investment banking, brokerage, asset management, commercial banking and other financial

services to the subject company/companies or its affiliates, for which they have received or may receive customary fees and commissions, and which constituted or may
constitute relevant financial or commercial interests in relation to the subject company/companies or the subject securities. Canada: The information contained herein is not,
and under no circumstances is to be construed as, a prospectus, an advertisement, a public offering, an offer to sell securities described herein, solicitation of an offer to buy

securities described herein, in Canada or any province or territory thereof. Any offer or sale of the securities described herein in Canada will be made only under an exemption
from the requirements to file a prospectus with the relevant Canadian securities regulators and only by a dealer properly registered under applicable securities laws or,
alternatively, pursuant to an exemption from the dealer registration requirement in the relevant province or territory of Canada in which such offer or sale is made. Under no

circumstances is the information contained herein to be construed as investment advice in any province or territory of Canada and is not tailored to the needs of the recipient.
To the extent that the information contained herein references securities of an issuer incorporated, formed or created under the laws of Canada or a province or territory of
Canada, any trades in such securities must be conducted through a dealer registered in Canada or, alternatively, pursuant to a dealer registration exemption. No securities

commission or similar regulatory authority in Canada has reviewed or in any way passed upon these materials, the information contained herein or the merits of the securities
described herein and any representation to the contrary is an offence. In Canada, this publication is distributed by UBS Investment Management Canada Inc. China: This
report and any offering material such as term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this report

was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the material erroneously,
UBS asks that you kindly delete it and inform UBS immediately. This report is prepared by UBS Switzerland AG or its offshore subsidiary or affiliate (collectively as "UBS
Offshore"). UBS Offshore is an entity incorporated out of China and is not licensed, supervised or regulated in China to carry out banking or securities business. The recipient

should not contact the analysts or UBS Offshore which produced this report for advice as they are not licensed to provide securities investment advice in China. UBS
Investment Bank (including Research) has its own wholly independent research and views which at times may vary from the views of UBS Global Wealth Management. The
recipient should not use this document or otherwise rely on any of the information contained in this report in making investment decisions and UBS takes no responsibility in

this regard. Denmark: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Danish law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe
SE, Denmark Branch, filial af UBS Europe SE, with place of business at Sankt Annae Plads 13, 1250 Copenhagen, Denmark, registered with the Danish Commerce and
Companies Agency, under No. 38 17 24 33. UBS Europe SE, Denmark Branch, filial af UBS Europe SE is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the

German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin"), as
well as of the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finanstilsynet), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution
constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Egypt: Securities or other investment products are not being offered or sold by

UBS to the public in Egypt and they have not been and will not be registered with the Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority (FRA). France: This publication is not intended
to constitute a public offer under French law, it does not constitute a personal recommendation as it is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE
Succursale de France (a branch of UBS Europe SE), having its registered office at 39, rue du Colisée, 75008 Paris, France, registered with the “Registre du Commerce et des

Sociétés” of Paris under N°844 425 629. UBS Europe SE Succursale de France is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the German Central Bank
(Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin"), as well as of the French
"Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution" and "Autorité des marchés financiers", to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a

credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Germany: This publication is not intended to constitute a
public offer under German law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Germany, with place of business at Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4,
60306 Frankfurt am Main. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by the German Federal

Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin") and supervised jointly by the European Central Bank, the German Central
Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and BaFin, to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. Hong Kong SAR: This publication is distributed to clients of UBS AG
Hong Kong Branch by UBS AG Hong Kong Branch, a licensed bank under the Hong Kong Banking Ordinance and a registered institution under the Securities and Futures

Ordinance. UBS AG Hong Kong Branch is incorporated in Switzerland with limited liability. The contents of this material have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority
in Hong Kong. India: UBS Securities India Private Ltd. (Corporate Identity Number U67120MH1996PTC097299) 2/F, 3 North Avenue, Maker Maxity, Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai (India) 400051. Phone: +912261556000. It provides brokerage services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INZ000259830; Merchant Banking

services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INM000013101 and Research Analyst services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INH000001204. Name of Compliance Officer
Mr. Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone: +912261556151, Email: parameshwaran.s@ubs.com, Name of Grievance Officer Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan,
Phone: +912261556151, Email: ol-ubs-sec-compliance@ubs.com. Registration granted by SEBI, and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the

intermediary or provide any assurance of returns to investors. UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have debt holdings or positions in the subject Indian company/
companies. UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have financial interests (e.g. loan/derivative products, rights to or interests in investments, etc.) in the subject Indian
company/companies from time to time. Within the past 12 months, UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have received compensation for non-investment banking

securities-related services and/or non-securities services from the subject Indian company/companies. The subject company/companies may have been a client/clients of UBS
AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries during the 12 months preceding the date of distribution of the research report with respect to investment banking and/or non-investment
banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services. With regard to information on associates, please refer to the Annual Report at: https://www.ubs.com/

global/en/about_ubs/investor_relations/annualreporting.html. The Research Annual Compliance report for UBS Securities India Private Limited is available on www.ubs.com/
ubssi under Research tab. Indonesia: This communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other
information (the "Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your

behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The
Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed without the consent of UBS. None of the Material has been registered
or filed under the prevailing laws and with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. The Material may not have been approved, disapproved, endorsed,

registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or
to purchase any investment (including securities or products or futures contracts). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract
(including futures contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as

set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you
understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are
advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been

provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Israel: UBS is a premier
global financial firm offering wealth management, asset management and investment banking services from its headquarters in Switzerland and its operations in over 50
countries worldwide to individual, corporate and institutional investors. This publication is intended for information only and is not intended as an offer to buy or solicitation

of an offer. Furthermore, this publication is not intended as an investment advice. Nothing contrary to the above, no action has been, or will be, taken in Israel that would
permit an offering of the product(s) mentioned in this document or a distribution of this document to the public in Israel. In particular, this document has not been reviewed
or approved by the Israeli Securities Authority. The product(s) mentioned in this document is/are being offered to a limited number of sophisticated investors who qualify as

furnished to any other person other than those to whom copies have been sent. Anyone who purchases the product(s) mentioned herein shall do so for its own benefit and
for its own account and not with the aim or intention of distributing or offering the product(s) to other parties. Anyone who purchases the product(s) shall do so in
accordance with its own understanding and discretion and after it has received any relevant financial, legal, business, tax or other advice or opinion required by it in

being researched, as well as the fact that remuneration paid to the financial analysts is based generally upon the performance of (i) the new issues department or investment
banking; or (ii) securities trading performance (including proprietary trading) or sales. Italy: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Italian law. It is
distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Succursale Italia, with place of business at Via del Vecchio Politecnico, 3-20121 Milano. UBS Europe SE,

Succursale Italia is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services
Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, “BaFin”), as well as of the Bank of Italy (Banca d’Italia) and the Italian Financial Markets Supervisory
Authority (CONSOB - Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution

constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Japan: This report is solely distributed in Japan by UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth
Management Co., Ltd, Financial Instruments Dealer, Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 3233, a member of the Japan Securities Dealers
Association, Financial Futures Association of Japan, Investment Management Association of Japan. UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Management Co., Ltd will not distribute or

### Page 11

forward this report outside Japan. Jersey: UBS AG, Jersey Branch, is regulated and authorized by the Jersey Financial Services Commission for the conduct of banking, funds
and investment business. Where services are provided from outside Jersey, they will not be covered by the Jersey regulatory regime. UBS AG, Jersey Branch is a branch of UBS
AG a public company limited by shares, incorporated in Switzerland whose registered offices are at Aeschenvorstadt 1, CH-4051 Basel and Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH 8001

Zurich. UBS AG, Jersey Branch's principal place of business is 1, IFC Jersey, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3BX. Luxembourg: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer
under Luxembourg law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Luxembourg Branch ("UBS Luxembourg"), R.C.S. Luxembourg n°
B209123, with registered office at 33A, Avenue J. F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a

Societas Europaea (HRB n° 107046), with registered office at Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4, D-60306 Frankfurt am Main, Germany, duly authorized by the German Federal
Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin") and subject to the joint prudential supervision of BaFin, the European
Central Bank and the central bank of Germany (Deutsche Bundesbank). UBS Luxembourg is furthermore supervised by the Luxembourg prudential supervisory authority

(Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier), in its role as host member state authority. This publication has not been submitted for approval to any public supervisory
authority. Malaysia: This communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the
"Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should

you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where
provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material
may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the

Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor
a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant
investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such

restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk
appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided
on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case

may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Mexico: This information is distributed by UBS Asesores México, S.A. de C.V. ("UBS Asesores"), an affiliate of UBS
Switzerland AG, incorporated as a non-independent investment advisor under the Mexican regulation due to the relation with a Foreign Bank. UBS Asesores is registered
under number 30060-001-(14115)-21/06/2016 and subject to the supervision of the Mexican Banking and Securities Commission ("CNBV") exclusively regarding the

rendering of (i) portfolio management services, (ii) securities investment advisory services, analysis and issuance of individual investment recommendations, and (iii) anti-
money laundering and terrorism financing matters. This UBS publication or any material related thereto is addressed only to Sophisticated or Institutional Investors located in
Mexico. Research reports only reflect the views of the analysts responsible for the report. The compensation of the analyst(s) who prepared this report is determined

exclusively by research management and senior management of any entity of UBS Group to which such analyst(s) render(s) services. Monaco: This document is not intended
to constitute a public offering or a comparable solicitation under the Principality of Monaco laws, but might be made available for information purposes to clients of UBS
(Monaco) S.A., a regulated bank having its registered office at 2 avenue de Grande Bretagne 98000 Monaco operating under a banking license granted by the “Autorité de

Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution” (ACPR) and the Monegasque government which authorizes the provision of banking services in Monaco. UBS (Monaco) S.A. is also
licensed by the “Commission de Contrôle des Activités Financières” (CCAF) to provide investment services in Monaco. The latter has not approved this publication.
Philippines:  This communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have

received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was
provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have
been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material,

made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor a
solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant
investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such

restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk
appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided
on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case

may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Portugal: UBS Switzerland AG is not licensed to conduct banking and financial activities in Portugal nor is UBS
Switzerland AG supervised by the portuguese regulators (Bank of Portugal "Banco de Portugal" and Portuguese Securities Exchange Commission "Comissão do Mercado de
Valores Mobiliários"). Qatar: UBS Qatar LLC is licensed by the Qatar Financial Centre Authority and authorized by the QFC Regulatory Authority, with QFC no. 01169, and

an invitation to make offers, to sell, exchange or otherwise transfer any financial instruments in the Russian Federation to or for the benefit of any Russian person or entity
and does not constitute an advertisement or offering of securities in the Russian Federation within the meaning of Russian securities laws. The information contained herein
is not an “individual investment recommendation” as defined in Federal Law of 22 April 1996 No 39-FZ "On Securities Market" (as amended) and the financial instruments

and operations specified herein may not be suitable for your investment profile or your investment goals or expectations. The determination of whether or not such financial
instruments and operations are in your interests or are suitable for your investment goals, investment horizon or the acceptable risk level is your responsibility. We assume no
liability for any losses connected with making any such operations or investing into any such financial instruments and we do not recommend to use such information as the

only source of information for making an investment decision. Saudi Arabia: This material is for marketing and information purposes by UBS Saudi Arabia only. It has been
distributed by UBS Saudi Arabia or reviewed and approved by UBS Saudi Arabia if it was issued by UBS Switzerland AG, by UBS AG, or any of its subsidiaries or branches. UBS
Switzerland AG is a public company limited by shares, incorporated in Switzerland with its registered offices at Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH-8001 Zurich. UBS Saudi Arabia (a

subsidiary of UBS AG) is a Saudi closed joint stock company incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with a paid capital of 110,000,000 Saudi Riyals under commercial
register number 1010257812 having its registered office at Laysen Valley, P.O. Box 75724, Riyadh 11588, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. UBS Saudi Arabia is authorized and
regulated by the Capital Market Authority to conduct securities business under license number 08113-37. This document is distributed only under such circumstances as may

be permitted by applicable laws and regulations. The information and – if any - opinions contained in this document have been compiled or arrived at based upon
information obtained from sources believed to be reliable and in good faith, but is not guaranteed as being accurate, nor is it a complete statement or summary of the
securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. All such information and opinions are subject to changes without notice. Past performance of investments

(whether simulated or actual) is not necessarily an indicator of future results. Forward looking data is based on estimates that are subject to changes. Should the currency of
a financial product or service not match your reference currency, performance may rise or fall due to currency fluctuations. UBS Switzerland AG and / or other members of the
UBS Group may have a position in and may make a purchase and/or sale of any of the securities or other financial instruments mentioned in this document While statements

that constitute “forward-looking statements”, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our future business development represent UBS judgments and future
expectations concerning the development of our business, a number of risks, uncertainties and other important factors could cause actual developments and results to differ
materially from our expectations. This document may not be forwarded, reproduced, redistributed or republished for any purpose without the written permission of UBS

institutional investor, accredited investor, or expert investor, UBS AG is exempted from complying with certain requirements under the Financial Advisers Act 2001 (the
“FAA”), the FAR and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory service which UBS AG may provide to you. These include
exemptions from complying with: Section 34 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 33(1) of the FAR); Section 36 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the FAR); and

Section 45 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 35(1) of the FAR). Singapore recipients and clients of UBS AG, Singapore Branch should contact UBS AG, Singapore Branch for
any matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Where applicable, this communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or
service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons

entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and
inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your
jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved or endorsed by any financial or regulatory authority in your

jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or products or
futures contracts). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any
securities or products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you

undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in
considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice
in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed

upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Spain: This report is distributed in Spain by UBS AG, Sucursal en España,
authorized under number 1460 in the Register by the Banco de España. Sweden: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Swedish law. It is
distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Sweden Bankfilial, with place of business at Regeringsgatan 38, 11153 Stockholm, Sweden, registered

### Page 12

with the Swedish Companies Registration Office under Reg. No 516406-1011. UBS Europe SE, Sweden Bankfilial is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central
Bank, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht,
"BaFin"), as well as of the Swedish supervisory authority (Finansinspektionen), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit

institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Taiwan: This material is provided by UBS AG, Taipei Branch in
accordance with laws of Taiwan, in agreement with or at the request of clients/prospects.  Thailand: This communication and any offering material, term sheet, research
report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this communication were done so as a result of a request received by UBS

from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy
the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in
whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with

any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any
investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts)
nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the

Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and
exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek
independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon

your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Türkiye: The information in this document
is not provided for the purpose of offering, marketing or sale of any capital market instrument or service in the Republic of Türkiye. Therefore, this document may not be
considered as an offer made, or to be made, to residents of the Republic of Türkiye in the Republic of Türkiye. UBS Switzerland AG is not licensed by the Capital Markets Board

of Türkiye (the CMB) under the provisions of the Capital Market Law (Law No. 6362). Accordingly, neither this document nor any other offering material related to the
instrument/service may be utilized in connection with providing any capital market services to persons within the Republic of Türkiye without the prior approval of the CMB.
However, according to article 15 (d) (ii) of the Decree No. 32 residents of the Republic of Türkiye are allowed to purchase or sell the financial instruments traded in financial

markets outside of the Republic of Türkiye. Further to this, pursuant to article 9 of the Communiqué on Principles Regarding Investment Services, Activities and Ancillary
Services No. III-37.1, investment services provided abroad to residents of the Republic of Türkiye based on their own initiative are not restricted. United Arab Emirates
(UAE) / DIFC / Abu Dhabi: UBS is not licensed in the UAE by the Central Bank of the UAE nor by the Emirates’ Securities and Commodities Authority and does not undertake

The investment research may be out of date. You should seek investment advice before acting on the basis of the Investment Research. Abu Dhabi: UBS AG Abu Dhabi
Branch is licensed and regulated by the Financial Services Regulatory Authority (“FSRA”) of the Abu Dhabi Global Market. This material is intended solely for professional
clients or market counterparties, as defined in the rules of the FSRA. It is not directed at, nor intended for, retail clients or any person who does not meet the criteria of a

professional client or market counterparty. United Kingdom: This document is issued by UBS Wealth Management, a division of UBS AG which is authorised and regulated
by the Financial Market Supervisory Authority in Switzerland. In the United Kingdom, UBS AG is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation
by the Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. Details about the extent of regulation by the Prudential Regulation

UBS is a premier global financial services firm offering wealth management services to individual, corporate and institutional investors. UBS is established in Switzerland and
operates under Swiss law and in over 50 countries and from all major financial centers. UBS is not registered and licensed as a bank/financial institution under Ukrainian
legislation and does not provide banking and other financial services in Ukraine. UBS has not made, and will not make, any offer of the mentioned products to the public in

Ukraine. No action has been taken to authorize an offer of the mentioned products to the public in Ukraine and the distribution of this document shall not constitute financial
services for the purposes of the Law of Ukraine "On Financial Services and Financial Companies" dated 14 December 2021. Any offer of the mentioned products shall not
constitute an investment advice, public offer, circulation, transfer, safekeeping, holding or custody of securities in the territory of Ukraine. Accordingly, nothing in this

document or any other document, information or communication related to the mentioned products shall be interpreted as containing an offer, a public offer or invitation to
offer or to a public offer, or solicitation of securities in the territory of Ukraine or investment advice under Ukrainian law. Electronic communication must not be considered as
an offer to enter into an electronic agreement or other electronic instrument within the meaning of the Law of Ukraine "On Electronic Commerce" dated 3 September 2015.

This document is strictly for private use by its holder and may not be passed on to third parties or otherwise publicly distributed. USA: Distributed to US persons only by UBS
Financial Services Inc. or UBS Securities LLC, subsidiaries of UBS AG. UBS Switzerland AG, UBS Europe SE, UBS Bank, S.A., UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores
Mobiliários S.A., UBS Asesores México, S.A. de C.V., UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Management Co., Ltd., UBS Wealth Management Israel Ltd. and UBS Menkul Degerler AS are

affiliates of UBS AG.  UBS Financial Services Inc. accepts responsibility for the content of a report prepared by a non-US affiliate when it distributes reports to
US persons. All transactions by a US person in the securities mentioned in this report should be effected through a US-registered broker dealer affiliated with
UBS, and not through a non-US affiliate. The contents of this report have not been and will not be approved by any securities or investment authority in the

United States or elsewhere. UBS Financial Services Inc. is not acting as a municipal advisor to any municipal entity or obligated person within the meaning of
Section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Municipal Advisor Rule") and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not
constitute, advice within the meaning of the Municipal Advisor Rule.  For information on the ways in which UBS Securities LLC manages conflicts and maintains

ab

---
## Document 144: 6472保瑞 永豐

Source PDF: all report pdf/6472保瑞 永豐.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

個股聚焦

2026/9/8

交易資料 
潛在報酬率 (%) 29.36 
52 週還原收盤價區間 (NT$) 327.25-730.47 
市值 (NT$百萬元) 53120 
市值 (US$百萬美元) 1,684 
流通在外股數 (百萬股) 128.00 
董監持股 (%) 22.78 
外資持股 (%) 10.63 
投信持股 (%) 1.47 
融資使用率 (%) 10.68

財務資料 
 2025 
股東權益 (NT$百萬元) 15,381 
ROA (%) 6.61 
ROE (%) 21.17 
淨負債比率 (%) 60.92 
產業類別 生技 
投資建議 買進  
收盤價 6 個月目標價 
NT$ 416.00 NT$ 509.00

公司簡介 
保瑞為台灣第一大藥廠(依製造量)，旗下藥
品銷售區域涵蓋全球 100 個以上國家，海
外營收佔比逾九成 ， 公司組織架構涵蓋兩大
事業體，即全球CDMO 業務與全球銷售業
務，2Q26 營收中，CDMO、全球銷售業務
及 CHC 占比分別為 36%、50%及 14%。

主要客戶： 
主要競爭對手：

陳奕均 fion.chen@sinopac.com 
本次報告：公司拜訪

保瑞 (6472 TT) 
持續轉好

永豐觀點 
營運重回成長軌道。 
 投資評價與建議 
投資建議為買進 ：由於(1) 2Q 起營運已擺脫陰霾重回成長軌道 ；(2) 2H26 在 CDMO
廠產線調配恢復正常且接單狀況佳，專科用藥主力產品 Vigabatrin 三劑型銷售續
揚及 Weider 進入旺季下，預估平均月營收將站穩 20 億元以上；(3) 保瑞在完成
階段性併購版圖後，將持續推動三大事業群質之提升，包括生產製程、產品組合優
化與全面發揮協和綜效，預期2H26 -2027 年在結構性效益帶動下，營運體質將持
續向好 ， 維持買進 ， 目標價因獲利調整 ， 由537 元調整至 509 元( 18 X 2027 EPS )。

ESG 評析 
保瑞企業永續評鑑整體為 A 等，於 SASB 產業永續議題與跨產業五大永續面向平
均得分分別為 A 等與 B+等。 
SinoPac+ ESG 評鑑系統評等

資料來源：SinoPac+ ESG 評等 (依循 2024 SinoPac+企業永續評鑑方法學) 
註 1：資誠永續發展服務股份有限公司僅於ＥＳＧ評鑑系統方法學建置過程中，就評分指標提供
專業意見，對於評分結果及評估報告內容之完整性及真實性，不負擔保責任，亦不對閱讀或使用
本評估報告之第三方負任何責任。 
註 2：永豐投顧已獲 SASB 授權，於研究中使用 SASB 重大性地圖之一般議題分類及揭露主題。
SinoPac Securities Investment Service licenses and applies the SASB Materiality Map® 
General Issue Categories and Disclosure Topics in our work.

### Page 2

2

公司簡介：保瑞為台灣第一大藥廠(依製造量)，旗下藥品銷售區域涵蓋全球 100 個
以上國家，海外營收佔比逾九成，公司組織架構涵蓋兩大事業體，即全球 CDMO
業務與全球銷售業務，2Q26 營收中，CDMO、全球銷售業務及 CHC 占比分別為
36%、50%及 14%。 
2Q 費用支出較多，獲利表現較預期低：保瑞 2Q 在 CDMO 各廠稼動率升、業務
回穩，及全球銷售業務中，胃食道逆流藥 DLS 市場競爭趨緩及罕病產品線銷售持
續上揚，加上子公司晨暉收購全球知名運動營養品牌 Weider，於五月底開始認列
營收下，帶動 2Q 整體營收回升至 58.9 億元(+21%QoQ、+47.2%YoY)，毛利率
隨營收與工廠稼動率升及學名藥價格回穩等因素，由前季 36%回升至 41.3%，優
於原預期 40.1%，然因併購等一次性費用支出較多，加上單季稅率 25%，高於預
期之 22%，稅後淨利 5.56 億元(+2051%QoQ、-9.9%YoY)，稅後 EPS 4.35 元，
低於預期之 6.12 元。 
2H26 平均月營收將維持在 20 億元以上：保瑞七月營收 19 億元(-17.3%MoM、
+5.8%YoY)， 八月在七月CDMO 部分訂單移至八月出貨 ， 加上專科用藥Vigabatrin
三劑型銷售再創高峰下，營收回升至 21.8 億元(+14.9%MoM、+59.2%YoY)，由
於 CDMO 廠區皆已恢復正常生產加上在手訂單持續增加，Weider 4Q 也將進入
聖誕節銷售旺季下，預估 2H26 保瑞平均月營收水位將可持穩在 20 億元以上。 
全球銷售業務以提升專科用藥與高值化學名藥為營運重點 ：保瑞近年持續深耕渠道
銷售及毛利穩定之專科用藥領域，至 2Q26，專科用藥佔全球銷售業務營收比由
1Q26 之 49%再跳增至 54.2%，其中重點藥品 Vigabatrin 口服液、口服型粉末溶
液及粉劑三完整劑型， 在保險覆蓋率提升及醫生正面評價推動下， 營收已連續七季
成長，預估至年底，營收可達原廠 peak sales(約 3-3.5 億美金)時之六成約 55-60
億台幣，由於此系列產品市場競爭力足，公司認為有機會全面搶食市場份額，另在
其他學名藥部分，1H26 已上市六項藥品，預計至 2030 年還有六項藥品將陸續取
證上市，策略上保瑞持續進行產品組合優化， 2Q26 高值學名藥佔比已由前季
55.8%再提升至 61.7%，此舉將有助平緩學名藥價格下跌對營收與毛利之影響。 
CDMO 在大小分子全球廠區及一條龍服務優勢下 ， 在手訂單持續成長 ：隨保瑞 2Q
收購美國生技公司 MarcoGenics 位於馬里蘭州 Rockville 生物製劑 CDMO 廠，
目前公司在全球生產基地已達 11 個，可充分因應全球製藥產業供應鏈彈性配置與
美國在地生產趨勢之大小分子一條龍代工訂單需求，至 2Q26，保瑞 CDMO 業務
在手訂單約 3.17 億美金，新簽訂單也創歷史新高至 3.78 億美金，下半年來看，加
拿大、竹南及中壢廠訂單能見度皆高，Rockville 廠七月起三個量產案已開始貢獻
營收(一個月約 1-2 億元)外，此廠加入也讓保瑞再增 6000 萬美金在手訂單，另國
際大客戶 10 年期長約訂單(年貢獻>20 億元)產品目前已開始進入技轉期，預計
3Q27 將逐批放量下，研究部預估保瑞 2026 及 2027 年 CDMO 營收可達 85.7 億
元(+14.3%YoY)及 106.8 億元(+24.6%YoY)。 
收購 Weider 晉升國際保健品牌公司：保瑞持股 42.3%保健食品代工子公司晨暉
於 2Q 收購國際知名保健品牌 Weider 並於 5 月起開始認列營收後，保瑞也於 2Q
起新增消費者保健(CHC)業務部份，目前營收組成包括原料與 CDMO(7%)、威德
品牌(73%)及台灣市場(20%)，由於 Weider 為全球知名品牌，在歐美地區已有既
定銷售通路，加上晨暉在益生菌原料開發上擁有豐沛技術與經驗下，2H26 起將結
合雙方優勢進行相關產品開發，以期發揮最大綜效。 
財務預估：預估保瑞 2026 年營收 224.4 億元(+18%YoY，原估 233.2 億元)，毛
利率 40.7%(原估 40.1%)，稅後淨利 21.1 億元(-29.2%YoY)，稅後 EPS 16.53 元

營運現況與分析

### Page 3

3

(原估 23.36 元)，獲利下修除營收調整外，費用部分因併購等因素指引較預期高，
調升費用預估所致，2027 年營收 263.5 億元(+17.4%YoY，原估 267 億元)，毛利
率 42.6%，稅後淨利 36.2 億元(+71.3%YoY)，稅後 EPS 28.31 元(原估 35.81 元)，
獲利下調原因來自費用預估調高

附表一：當年度損益表 
單位：百萬元 26Q1 26Q2 26Q3F 26Q4F 2026F 
營業收入 4,001 5,889 6,110 6,440 22,441 
營業毛利 1,443 2,430 2,566 2,692 9,130 
營業利益 407 987 1,115 1,212 3,721 
稅前淨利 221 813 945 1,042 3,021 
稅後純益 26 556 727 802 2,111 
稅後 EPS (元) 0.20 4.35 5.69 6.28 16.53 
營收 QoQ 成長率 -17.68 47.19 3.75 5.40 -- 
營收 YoY 成長率 -10.68 20.99 27.13 32.51 18.02 
毛利率 36.05 41.26 42.00 41.80 40.68 
營益率 10.18 16.75 18.25 18.82 16.58 
稅後純益率 0.81 10.14 11.90 12.45 9.41

資料來源：CMoney；永豐投顧研究部整理，Sep. 2026 
附表二：五個年度損益表 
單位：百萬元 2023 2024 2025 2026F 2027F  
營業收入 14,200 17,427 19,014 22,441 26,350  
  ％變動率 35.31 22.72 9.11 18.02 17.42  
營業毛利 6,991 7,791 7,853 9,130 11,238  
  毛利率 (％) 49.23 44.70 41.30 40.68 42.65  
營業淨利 5,249 3,708 3,294 3,721 5,368  
稅前淨利 4,064 5,223 5,278 3,021 4,688  
  ％變動率 120.88 28.52 1.05 -42.76 55.18  
稅後純益 3,030 3,853 2,981 2,111 3,616  
  ％變動率 117.70 27.14 -22.61 -29.18 71.29  
稅後 EPS＊(元) 30.20 31.54 23.90 16.53 28.31  
市調 EPS＊(元) 25.07 32.86 33.01 18.40 --  
PER (×) 13.77 13.19 17.41 25.17 14.70  
PBR (×) 4.64 3.36 3.44 3.45 2.94  
每股淨值＊(元) 89.68 123.83 120.83 120.70 141.57  
每股股利 (元) 12.00 14.00 10.00 -- --  
  殖利率 (％) 2.39 2.33 2.10 -- --

＊以目前股本計算 
資料來源：CMoney；永豐投顧研究部整理，Sep. 2026

### Page 4

4

營運基本資料

同業比較 
代號 公司 投資 
建議 
目前 
股價 市值(億) 
稅後 EPS PE PB 
2025 2026 2025 2026 2025 2026

近三年單月營收狀況

近三年單季營收 VS 毛利率趨勢圖

負債比率 VS 存貨周轉天數

0
0.5
1
1.5
2
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
202303 202304 202401 202402 202403 202404 202501 202502 202503 202504 202601 202602
百%
負債比率(%) 存貨週轉天數
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
6000
7000
202303 202304 202401 202402 202403 202404 202501 202502 202503 202504 202601 202602
%百萬
營業收入淨額(百萬) 毛利率(%)
0
500000
1000000
1500000
2000000
2500000
1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12
千
2026年 2025年 2024年

### Page 5

5

歷史 PE 圖

歷史 PB 圖

近八季營收及 YoY 趨勢圖

資料來源：CMoney；永豐投顧研究部整理，Sep. 2026

近八季營業利益及毛利率趨勢圖

資料來源：CMoney；永豐投顧研究部整理，Sep. 2026

0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
NT$/share
7X
6X
5X
4X
3X
2X
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
NT$/share
35X
29X
23X
17X
11X
5X
-11%
21% 27% 33%
56%
10%
11% 6%
-20%
0%
20%
40%
60%
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
1Q26 2Q26 3Q26 4Q26 1Q27 2Q27 3Q27 4Q27
%百萬
營收(百萬) YOY
36% 41% 42% 42% 42% 42% 43% 43%
0%
20%
40%
60%
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
1Q26 2Q26 3Q26 4Q26 1Q27 2Q27 3Q27 4Q27
%百萬
營業利益(百萬) 毛利率

### Page 6

6

香港

110 年金管投顧新字第 024 號

SinoPac 投資評等 
B：Buy 買進：未來 6 個月該股票表現將優於大盤 
N：Neutral 中立：未來 6 個月該股票表現將與大盤一致 
S：Sell 賣出：未來 6 個月該股票表現將落後大盤

SinoPac+ ESG 評鑑系統級距說明 
A+ 企業在管理及揭露 ESG 績效的程度在前 20% 
A 企業在管理及揭露 ESG 績效的程度在 21%-40% 
B+ 企業在管理及揭露 ESG 績效的程度在 41%-60% 
B 企業在管理及揭露 ESG 績效的程度在 61%-80% 
C 企業在管理及揭露 ESG 績效的程度在 81%-100%

### Page 7

7

### Page 8

8

---
## Document 169: 9月美联储会议如期加息25个基点，且表态继续偏鹰

Source PDF: all report pdf/9月美联储会议如期加息25个基点，且表态继续偏鹰.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

美联储 9 月会议加息 25 个基点， 符合市场预期，且会议整体 继续
偏鹰。沃什表示本次加息 开始向市场证明， 对于抗通胀美联储是认
真的， 体现了美联储偏鹰立场。 点阵图和季度经济预测更新也佐证
了这一立场。 具体地说，

1. 美联储官员在加息问题上罕见达成高度一致 。在此前的美联储议
息投票中，美联储官员的分歧逐渐加大。但本次会议 12 位 FOMC
投票委员均赞成加息， 凸显了在中东冲突推升油价的背景下， 美联
储面临的抗通胀压力。会议声明特别提及： “此次采取的政策行动
将有助于推动通胀更及时地回落至 FOMC 委员会设定的 2%目标。”

2. 在未来降息路径上，季度经济预测更新（SEP）暗示今年还将加息
25 个基点（即年内共加息 50 个基点），而 6 月会议时暗示全年仅
降息 25 个基点。年内还有一次 25 个基点加息亦符合当前市场定
价。此外，SEP 预计明年政策利率将维持在 4.1%不变，2028 年才
会重启降息。点阵图显示在提供利率预测的 18 名联储官员中，本
次共有 12 人预计今年还有一次 25 个基点的加息，4 人预计还有两
次加息，2 人预计今年年内不再加息， 无人预计今年会降息。 而上
次点阵图中， 有8 人预计年内利率不变，9 人预计今年将至少加息
一次，1 人预计今年将有一次降息。

3. 在经济指标预测更新上，美联储小幅上调今年 GDP 预测和通胀预
测，并下调了失业率预期（图表 1）。在经济增速方面，在 6 月下
调 GDP 预测之后，SEP 此次上调了今明两年的 GDP 预测各 0.1 个
百分点，到 2.3%和 2.4%。2028 年和更长期 GDP 预测维持在 2.2%
和 2.0%不变。

通胀方面， 在中东局势再次扰动油价的情况下， 通胀预期略微上调。
SEP 上调了 2026 年的 PCE 和核心 PCE 通胀率预测各 0.1 个百分点，
到 3.7%和 3.4%。不过我们怀疑美联储并未计入本月底即将发生的
PCE 统计方式调整，SEP 对今年年底的 PCE 通胀预测或有高估风险。
通胀预测上调暗示着美联储对议息问题的偏鹰立场。2027 年的 PCE
和核心 PCE 通胀率预测维持不变，但 2028 年的 PCE 和核心 PCE 通
胀率亦各被上调 0.1 个百分点。

就业市场方面，SEP 下调今明两年的失业率预测各 0.2 个百分点，
到 4.1%，并略微下调 2028 年的失业率预测 0.1 个百分点到 4.1%。

浦银国际 
宏观观点 
9月美联储会议如期加息25个基点，且表态继续偏鹰 
金晓雯，PhD，CFA 
首席宏观分析师 
xiaowen_jin@spdbi.com 
(852) 2808 6437

2026 年 9 月 17 日

扫码关注浦银国际研究

### Page 2

5. 沃什在发布会上再次释放 “抗通胀优先” 信号， 并称降通胀不会牺
牲就业。首先， 沃什表示美国经济正在加强， 劳动力市场总体处在
充分就业附近， 但通胀已经太高， 并且已经持续了太长时间。 他同
时表示， 他无法将广泛的金融状况描述为限制性的。 他亦评价此次
加息开始向市场表明， 美联储 （在抗通胀问题上） 是认真的 （start 
to show we are serious），我们认为“开始”一词暗含美联储此后可
能还会加息。 此外， 他亦强调美联储关注的是通胀趋势， 而不是仅
仅关注某一个数据点。 其次， 在长期美债收益率为何上涨问题上，
沃什的解释给出了美国经济走强、资本竞争 和地缘政治三大 影响
因素。 他认为世界各地的地缘政治热点正在推高长期收益率。 这种
影响不只体现在能源、 玉米、 大豆或小麦等商品现货价格上升本身，
还涉及这些现货价格与所谓 “裂解价差” 之间的变化， 以及最终对
全国各地商店商品价格的影响。 这一表态或暗示， 美伊迟迟无法达
成协议、重开霍尔木兹海峡或是美联储继续偏鹰的一大原因。 再次，
沃什并不认为需要损害劳动力市场来实现 通胀目标。当前美国失
业率基本和充分就业一致，价格稳定和充分就业在中期并非必然
相互冲突。 只要保持价格稳定， 就能够为更持久的经济增长创造条
件。最后，他表示 AI 很重要，美联储新成立的特别工作组计划在
今年年底提交报告，以帮助美联储思考 AI 可能对未来政策环境产
生的影响。 不过，AI 相关的风险、 回报以及政策选择属于政府其他
部门的决策范围，美联储只需要关注这些政策决定最终 将如何影
响其日常工作。

我们认为 9 月加息并不一定意味着新一轮连续加息周期的开启，10
月美联储或将“按兵不动”。本次加息旨在加强对总需求的约束、防
范持续高通胀侵蚀政策信誉。我们认为后续货币政策走向仍将主要依
赖于数据——取决于油价、 核心通胀率以及劳动力市场是否持续偏紧
等因素。截至 7 月，核心 PCE 三个月年化增速已从 2 月的 4.76%回落
至 3.05%，剔除生产率影响的工资增长亦相对温和，说明连续加息仍
需更多证据支持。考虑到政策传导存在滞后，我们预计 10 月暂停加
息有助于美联储更好地 评估通胀反弹的持续性及融资成本上升对需
求的影响。虽然本次美联储会议表态继续偏鹰， 市场和美联储均预计
今年年内或还有一次加息，但是我们认为 12 月是否会再次加息仍取
决于接下来几个月的通胀和就业 数据情况——如果未来 两至三个月
核心 PCE 环比通胀率反复达到 0.3%或以上， 中东冲突继续冲击油价、
能源成本向非能源商品和服务扩散，AI 资本开支的持续扩张显著拉高

### Page 3

风险提示：下行风险：美伊局势继续升级引发对原油价格更大的冲击，
并导致全球金融危机； 通胀粘性超预期触发美联储连续加息周期；AI 投
资泡沫破裂。上行风险：AI 资本开支和生产率提升对美国经济的支撑
超预期。

图表 1：FOMC 季度经济预测更新

单位 (%)  2026 2027 2028 2029 长期 
实际 GDP 同比增速 9 月 2.3 2.4 2.2 2.1 2.0 
  6 月 2.2 2.3 2.2  2.0 
失业率 9 月 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.1 4.2 
  6 月 4.3 4.3 4.2  4.2 
PCE 同比增速 9 月 3.7 2.3 2.1 2.0 2.0 
  6 月 3.6 2.3 2.0  2.0 
核心 PCE 同比增速 9 月 3.4 2.5 2.2 2.0  
  6 月 3.3 2.5 2.1   
联邦基金利率 9 月 4.1 4.1 3.9 3.6 3.2 
  6 月 3.8 3.6 3.4  3.1

资料来源：CEIC、浦银国际

### Page 4

2026-09-17                                                  4 
图表 2：近期相关报告列表 
日期 报告标题和链接 
2026 年 9 月 12 日 8 月美国核心 CPI 环比超预期，9 月美联储会议或加息 25 个基点 
2026 年 8 月 31 日 月度美国宏观洞察：沃什再次放鹰，美联储 9 月会加息吗？ 
2026 年 8 月 13 日 7 月美国核心 CPI 符合预期，或继续缓解加息担忧  
2026 年 8 月 7 日 宏观主题研究：中期选举结果将如何影响美国经济和金融市场？ 
2026 年 7 月 30 日 月度美国宏观洞察：美伊冲突再起、美联储不再提供利率指引将如何影响美国经济？ 
2026 年 7 月 15 日 6 月美国核心 CPI 环比再次超预期下滑，或锁定美联储 7 月按兵不动 
2026 年 6 月 18 日 沃什首秀美联储议息会议显著转鹰 
2026 年 6 月 11 日 5 月美国核心 CPI 环比超预期下滑，或暂时缓解市场上的加息担忧  
2026 年 6 月 5 日 美国宏观经济 2026 年中期展望：财政刺激淡出后的 K 型分化加剧 
2026 年 5 月 13 日 超预期的 4 月美国核心 CPI 数据或加深美联储偏鹰立场 
2026 年 4 月 30 日 4 月美联储会议继续暂停降息，内部分歧加大或增加降息不确定性 
2026 年 4 月 23 日 月度美国宏观洞察：美伊和谈、美联储主席换届对美国经济影响几何？ 
2026 年 3 月 27 日 宏观主题研究：油价持续走高将如何影响中美经济走向？ 
2026 年 3 月 25 日 月度美国宏观洞察：中东局势将如何改变美国经济展望？ 
2026 年 3 月 19 日 美联储 3 月继续暂停降息，通胀再次成为降息关键因素 
2026 年 3 月 12 日 2 月美国核心 CPI 回落符合预期，但通胀上行风险仍制约近期降息可能性 
2026 年 3 月 2 日 美国和以色列联合袭击伊朗对中美宏观经济的影响 
2026 年 2 月 2 日 月度美国宏观洞察：多变的特朗普政策和美联储新主席的提名将给美国经济带来何种变化？  
2026 年 1 月 29 日 美联储 1 月如期暂停降息，中性表述几乎未给将来降息路径提供线索 
2026 年 1 月 26 日 宏观主题研究：美国劳动力市场到底有多弱？ 
2026 年 1 月 14 日 美国 12 月核心 CPI 略低于预期，但 1 月美联储或仍跳过降息 
2025 年 12 月 19 日 美国 11 月 CPI 远低于预期，为明年 1 月降息保留可能性 
2025 年 12 月 11 日 美联储 12 月如期降息，但表述较为鹰派  
2025 年 11 月 21 日 2026 年美国宏观经济展望：政策刺激引领经济复苏之路  
2025 年 10 月 30 日 美联储宣布 10 月降息和 12 月结束缩表，称 12 月降息并非板上钉钉 
2025 年 10 月 30 日 宏观策略联合解读：中美元首会晤取得阶段性成果，有望提振短期市场情绪  
2025 年 10 月 25 日 美国 9 月核心 CPI 超预期下滑，帮助锁定 10 月降息 
2025 年 10 月 13 日 特朗普宣称将对中国加征 100%关税，如何看待中美关税战前景？ 
2025 年 9 月 23 日 月度美国宏观洞察：降息周期重启，美国经济会陷入衰退吗？  
2025 年 9 月 18 日 美联储 9 月如期降息，年内或还有两次降息 
2025 年 9 月 12 日 美国 8 月核心 CPI 符合预期，锁定下周 25 个基点降息 
2025 年 8 月 26 日 月度美国宏观洞察：关税大致尘埃落定，9 月剑指重启降息？ 
2025 年 8 月 22 日 浦银国际宏观观点：关税问题上我们还需要担忧什么？ 
2025 年 8 月 12 日 美国 7 月核心 CPI 略微回升但符合预期，9 月重启降息可期  
2025 年 7 月 31 日 美联储 7 月继续暂停降息，鲍威尔未对 9 月是否降息给出指引 
2025 年 7 月 23 日 月度美国宏观洞察：8 月 1 日征税函生效在即，关税再成焦点 
2025 年 7 月 16 日 美国 6 月核心 CPI 回升但低于预期，料本月议息会议将继续按兵不动 
2025 年 7 月 3 日 暂缓期大限将至，个性化“对等关税”会卷土重来吗？ 
2025 年 6 月 20 日 月度美国宏观洞察：暂缓期大限将至，关税政策或再引关注  
2025 年 6 月 19 日 美联储 6 月继续暂停降息，关税对通胀的影响仍是降息关键 
2025 年 6 月 12 日 美国 5 月 CPI 超预期回落，料降息至少延迟至 9 月 
2025 年 5 月 24 日 2025 年中期宏观经济展望：关税进展仍是中美经济关键因素 
2025 年 5 月 14 日 美国 4 月 CPI 回升但不及预期，尚未体现关税影响  
2025 年 5 月 8 日 美联储 5 月如期继续暂停降息，并排除“先发制人”可能性，降息还需“边走边看”  
2025 年 5 月 7 日 月度美国宏观洞察： “对等关税”下美国经济濒临衰退  
2025 年 4 月 11 日 美国 3 月 CPI 再超预期回落，但难抵关税阴霾  
2025 年 4 月 3 日 政策解读：美国“对等关税”远超预期，而后或有部分减免可能  
2025 年 3 月 25 日 月度美国宏观洞察：新一轮关税风暴或一触即发  
2025 年 3 月 20 日 美联储 3 月如期继续暂停降息，强调经济不确定性增加 
2025 年 3 月 13 日 美国 2 月 CPI 超预期回落，关税战影响尚未显现

资料来源：浦银国际

### Page 5

本报告之收取者透过接受本报告 （包括任何有关的附件） ， 表示及保证其根据下述的条件下有权获得本报告， 且同意受
此中包含的限制条件所约束。任何没有遵循这些限制的情况可能构成法律之违反。

本报告是由从事证券及期货条例 (香港法例第 571 章)中第一类(证券交易)及第四类(就证券提供意见 )受规管活动之持
牌法团–浦银国际证券有限公司 （统称“浦银国际证券” ）利用集团信息及其他公开信息编制而成。所有资料均搜集
自被认为是可靠的来源，但并不保证数据之准确性、可信性及完整性，亦不会因资料引致的任何损失承担任何责任。
报告中的资料来源除非另有说明，否则信息均来自本集团。本报告的内容涉及到保密数据，所以仅供阁下为其自身利
益而使用。除了阁下以及受聘向阁下提供咨询意见的人士（其同意将本材料保密并受本免责声明中所述限制约束）之
外，本报告分发给任何人均属未授权的行为。

本报告之观点、推荐、建议和意见均不一定反映浦银国 际证券的立场。浦银国际控股有限公司及其联属公司、关联公
司（统称“浦银国际” ）及/或其董事及/或雇员，可能持有在本报告内所述或有关公司之证券、并可能不时进行买卖。
浦银国际或其任何董事及/或雇员对投资者因使用本报告或依赖其所载信息而引起的一切可能损失， 概不承担任何法律
责任。

浦银国际证券建议投资者应独立地评估本报告内的资料，考虑其本身的特定投资目标、财务状况及需要，在参与有关
报告中所述公司之证劵的交易前，委任其认为必须的法律、商业、财务、税务或其它方面的专业顾问。惟报告内所述
的公司之证券未必能在所有司法管辖区或国家或供所有类别的投资者买卖。对部分的司法管辖区或国家而言，分 发、
发行或使用本报告会抵触当地法律、法则、规定、或其它注册或发牌的规例。本报告不是旨在向该等司法管辖区或国
家的任何人或实体分发或由其使用。

美国

本报告仅提供给美国 1934 年证券交易法规则 15a-6 定义的“主要机构投资者”，不得提供给其他任何个人。接收本报告
之行为即表明同意接受协议不得将本报告分发或提供给任何其他人。接收本报告的美国收件人如想根据本报告中提供
的信息进行任何买卖证券交易，都应仅通过美国注册的经纪交易商来进行交易。

英国

本报告并非由英国 2000 年金融服务与市场法(经修订)( 「FSMA」)第 21 条所界定之认可人士发布,而本报告亦未经其批
准。因此，本报告不会向英国公众人士派发，亦不得向公众人士传递。本报告仅提供给合资格投资者(按照金融服务及
市场法的涵义) ，即(i)按照 2000 年金融服务及市场法 2005 年(金融推广)命令(「命令」)第 19(5)条定义在投资方面拥有
专业经验之投资专业人士或 (ii)属于命令第 49(2)(a)至(d)条范围之高净值实体或 (iii)其他可能合法与之沟通的人士(所有
该等人士统称为「有关人士」)。不属于有关人士的任何机构和个人不得遵照或倚赖本报告或其任何内容行事。

权益披露 
1) 浦银国际并没有持有本报告所述公司逾 1%的财务权益。 
2) 浦银国际跟本报告所述公司在过去 12 个月内并没有任何投资银行业务的关系。 
3) 浦银国际并没有跟本报告所述公司为其证券进行庄家活动。

### Page 6

2026-09-17                                                  6

评级定义 
证券评级定义: 
“买入” ：未来12 个月，预期个股表现超过同期其所属的行业指数 
“持有” ：未来12 个月，预期个股表现与同期所属的行业指数持平 
“卖出” ：未来12 个月，预期个股表现逊于同期其所属的行业指数

行业评级定义（相对于 MSCI 中国指数） ： 
“超配”：未来 12 个月优于 MSCI 中国 10%或以上 
“标配”：未来 12 个月优于/劣于 MSCI 中国少于 10% 
“低配”：未来 12 个月劣于 MSCI 中国超过 10%

分析师证明 
本报告作者谨此声明： （i）本报告发表的所有观点均正确地反映作者有关任何及所有提及的证券或发行人的个人观点，
并以独立方式撰写；（ii）其报酬没有任何部分曾经，是或将会直接或间接与本 报告发表的特定建议或观点有关； （iii）
该等作者没有获得与所提及的证券或发行人相关且可能影响该等建议的内幕信息／非公开的价格敏感数据。

本报告作者进一步确定（i）他们或其各自的关联人士（定义见证券 及期货事务监察委员会持牌人或注册人操守准则）
没有在本报告发行日期之前的 30 个历日内曾买卖或交易过本报告所提述的股票， 或在本报告发布后 3 个工作日 （定
义见《证券及期货条例》 （香港法例第571 章） ）内将买卖或交易本文所提述的股票； （ii）他们或其各自的关联人士并
非本报告提述的任何公司的雇员；及（iii）他们或其各自的关联人士没有拥有本报告提述的证券的任何金融利益。

浦银国际证券机构销售团队

---
## Document 176: AI Adoption Tracker_ August 2026_ Adoption Rises to 22.4%

Source PDF: all report pdf/AI Adoption Tracker_ August 2026_ Adoption Rises to 22.4%.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 24
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

We update our AI adoption tracker through August 2026. n
AI-related investment growth remains strong, particularly for semiconductors, n
where equity analysts expect global revenue to reach $863bn (ann.) by the end 
of 2026. 2026 gross profit forecast revisions since 2022Q3 for AI-exposed global 
public companies currently stands at $1.1tn. AI-related hardware investment in 
the US national accounts also continues to rise and now stands at $485bn 
(3-month annualized average; 1.5% of GDP) above its 2022 level. AI-related 
hardware shipments from Taiwan have grown by 76% since 2022 and US AI 
hardware net imports ticked up to $55.9bn in June.  
AI adoption by firms rose by 0.9pp to 22.4% among US establishments (with n
adoption expected to rise to 25.9% in the next 6 months) according to the 
Census Bureau’s Business Trends and Outlook Survey (BTOS). Information is 
leading sector adoption at nearly 50%. At a detailed subsector level, computing 
and publishing firms continue to lead adoption, and warehousing and 
miscellaneous manufacturing firms report the largest expected increase in 
adoption over the next six months. Establishments with over 250 employees 
continue to lead in adoption (40%; latest six survey average) while adoption has 
grown more slowly recently among smaller firms. Other business surveys note 
that 40% of surveyed organizations have begun deploying and scaling AI agents. 
AI’s labor market impact remains visible but narrow. We continue to observe n
employment drags in specific industries where AI-use cases have been 
established such as marketing, graphic design, customer service, and some tech 
occupations. However, this is offset by construction job growth in data 
center-exposed categories, which is up 209k since 2022 (relative to broader 
construction employment trends). The tech share of total employment continues 
to decline relative to the pre-2022 trend. The correlation between AI adoption 
and broad labor market slack measures remains limited but has strengthened in 
recent months. Corporate layoffs attributed to AI affected 11k employees in 
June, bringing the 2026 YTD total to 113k. 22% of Russell 3000 companies 
mentioned AI and labor-related keywords in 2026Q2. 
We continue to observe large impacts on labor productivity in the limited areas n
where generative AI has been deployed but only modest signs of economy-wide 
impacts. Academic studies imply a 23% average uplift to productivity, while 
company anecdotes imply slightly larger efficiency gains of around 32%. 
Sarah Dong 
+1(212)357-9741 | sarah.dong@gs.com 
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Joseph Briggs 
+1(212)902-2163 | 
joseph.briggs@gs.com 
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC
1 September 2026 | 4:10PM EDT

### Page 2

Industries with higher AI adoption rates are now showing a slight acceleration in
productivity growth over the past year in official US data.
1 September 2026   2
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 3

August 2026: Adoption Rises to 22.4%

AI Investment

Exhibit 1: Semiconductor Company Revenues Are Projected to Rise to $863bn (Annualized; vs. 2022) by End-2026

Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 2: AI-Exposed Gross Profit Forecast Revisions For 2026 Currently Stand at $1.1tn

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   3
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 4

Exhibit 3: AI Hardware Investment in the US National Accounts Has Increased by $485bn 
Since 2022 on a Three-Month Annualized Basis 
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
-150
-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
450
500
550
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
AI Hardware Spending in US National Accounts,
Change vs. 2022
Power Construction
Data Center Construction
HVAC
Computers and Servers
Semiconductors
$bn $bn
3m avg:
$485bn

Source: Census Bureau, Bureau of Economic Analysis, Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 4: US Investment in AI-Related Hardware and Software Ticked Up in Q2

Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   4
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 5

Exhibit 5: AI-Related Manufacturing Shipments From Taiwan Have Grown by 76% Since 2022

Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 6: US AI Hardware Net Imports Stood at $55.9bn in June

Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   5
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 6

Exhibit 7: We Expect $66bn in Global AI-Related Net Exports from AI Exporters in August  
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Jan-24 Jul-24 Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26 Jul-26
US AI-Related Imports from
AI Exporters
Data
Nowcast
Billions USD Billions USD
Nowcasts for
July & August
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
Jan-24 Jul-24 Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26 Jul-26
Global AI-Related Net Exports from
AI Exporters
Data
Nowcast
Billions USD Billions USD
Nowcasts for 
July & August

Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   6
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 7

AI Adoption by Firms 
Note: The Census Bureau has rephrased questions from asking about AI use in 
“producing goods and services” to asking about AI use in “any business functions” 
starting from the December 4, 2025 release. There was a level shift observed in 
conjunction with the new question wording, and we will be tracking adoption rates 
under the new methodology going forward.

Exhibit 8: 22.4% of Firms Are Using Artificial Intelligence in Their Regular Business Functions 
(+0.9pp From July); 25.9% Expect to Use AI In the Next 6 Months

Source: Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 9: Adoption Is Approaching 50% in the Information Sector 
0 1 02 03 04 05 06 0
0 1 02 03 04 05 06 0
Transportation and Warehousing
Other Services
Construction
Retail Trade
Arts, Entertainment, and Recreation
Wholesale Trade
Utilities
Manufacturing
Admin/Support/Waste Management
All Industries
Health Care and Social Assistance
Real Estate and Rental
Educational Services
Finance and Insurance
Professional, Scientific, and Technical
Information
August 2026
Next Six Months
Share of US Firms Using AI
by Sector (%)

Source: Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   7
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 8

Exhibit 10: Finance and Insurance Firms Had the Largest Gains in Adoption Since Our Last 
Update 
- 1 012345
- 1 012345
Wholesale Trade
Transportation and Warehousing
Retail Trade
Admin/Support/Waste Management
Agriculture, Forestry, Fishing, and Hunting
Manufacturing
Mining, Quarrying, and Oil & Gas
Construction
Other Services
All Industries
Professional, Scientific, and Technical
Health Care and Social Assistance
Real Estate and Rental
Utilities
Information
Finance and Insurance
Change in Share
of Firms Using AI Since 
Last Update, by Sector
(Percentage Points)

Source: Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 11: Publishing and Computing Continue to Lead Adoption at the Subsector Level 
0 1 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 0
0 1 02 03 04 05 06 07 08 0
General Merchandise Retailers
Educational Services
Chemical Manufacturing
Motion Picture and Sound Recording
Insurance Carriers and Related
Electrical Equipment Mfg.
Misc. Healthcare
Computer and Electronic Product Mfg.
Finance and Insurance
Broadcasting and Content Providers
Professional, Scientific, and Technical
Securities/Commodities/Financial
Misc. Construction
Computing/Data/Web Hosting
Publishing Industries
August 2026
Next Six Months
Share of US Firms Using 
AI,
Top 15 Subsectors (%)

Source: Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   8
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 9

Exhibit 12: Warehousing and Storage and Miscellaneous Manufacturing Firms Report the 
Largest Expected Adoption Increases in the Next 6 Months 
0 5 10 15 20
0 5 10 15 20
Health and Personal Care Retailers
Support Activities for Transportation
Credit Intermediation and Related
Securities/Commodities/Financial
Real Estate
Printing and Related Activities
Insurance Carriers and Related
Transportation Equipment Mfg.
Educational Services
Museums, Historical Sites
Scenic and Sightseeing Transportation
Misc. Healthcare
Misc. Construction
Couriers and Messengers
Misc. Manufacturing
Warehousing and Storage
Expected Change in Share 
of Firms Using AI Over 
Next Six Months, Top 15 
Subsectors
(Percentage Points)

Source: Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 13: 40% of Large Firms With 250+ Employees Expect to Be Using AI in Six Months

Source: Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   9
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 10

Exhibit 14: AI Adoption Remains Strongly Correlated With Our Subsector AI Automation 
Exposure Scores

Share of work exposed to AI automation is a GS estimate based on the methodology in “Global Economics Analyst: The 
Potentially Large Effects of Artificial Intelligence on Economic Growth” (March 26, 2023).

Source: Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   10
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 11

Exhibit 15: 40% of Surveyed Organizations Have Begun Deploying and Scaling AI Agents 
Source Date Current Adoption / Impacts Future Adoption / Impacts
McKinsey August 2026
40% of large organization respondents have adopted AI agents and are 
scaling their deployment throughout the organization, up from 27% last year. 
Nearly a third of respondents reported that they had used agentic coding 
tools to build software in-house instead of purchasing it. 80% of respondents 
said AI has improved their individual productivity. 
60% of surveyed organizations expect to increase their AI investments in the 
year ahead. 39% of respondents expect AI-related declines in their 
organization's total employment in the coming year. 
Gallup July 2026
47% of surveyed US employees in Q2 said their organization has integrated 
AI tools to improve workplace productivity, up from 41% last quarter. 
Individual AI use at work also increased to 52% of respondents. Among AI 
users, the most common uses of AI are writing and editing (51%), search or 
research (49%), and general assistance or problem-solving (39%).
The highest productivity ratings come from employees using AI for coding 
assistance and automation or process automation. Employees who use AI 
for a greater variety of tasks were also  more likely to report that AI positively 
affects their personal productivity. Although corporate adoption and AI 
awareness has grown notably, one in five employees remain unsure if AI has 
been integrated at their organization
WRITER April 2026
52% of employees say they've used AI agents over the past year. 
Employees reported saving around 6 hours per week with AI tools, while 
executives reported saving twice as much time at nearly 12 hours per week. 
The top use cases include editing and proofreading, personalized 
communication, and data analysis and insights. Few surveyed leaders 
reported seeing significant ROI from generative AI (29%) or AI agents (23%).
69% of executives report doing layoffs due to AI, but 39% admit their 
company doesn't have a formal strategy to drive revenue from AI. 
Harvard Business 
Review and 
Appian
April 2026
Most organizations have moved beyond the experimentation phase with AI 
and 58% of surveyed organizations have AI in production. 69% of 
respondents reported that legacy systems are limiting their organization's 
ability to scale AI. Most respondents are seeing some returns from AI 
investments, but only 16% report realizing a high degree of measurable 
value. 
Many organizations are currently exploring agentic AI systems (under 
consideration by 62% of respondents and currently used by 25%). Although 
nearly all organizations agree that clear guardrails are needed for AI agent 
adoption, fewer than half say their organization has defined such rules.
Gallup April 2026
Half of all surveyed adults reported using AI in their jobs and 27% of 
employees in AI-adopting organizations say that their workplace has 
changed in disruptive ways due to AI in the past year. 65% of adopters said 
that AI has improved their productivity and efficiency, regardless of how often 
they personally use AI at work. 
Eighteen percent of all U.S. employees say it is very or somewhat likely their 
job will be eliminated within the next five years due to AI or automation. 
Among employees working in organizations that have adopted AI, that share 
rises to 23%. However, employees in AI-adopting organizations were more 
likely to report both current expansions and reductions in headcount. 
NVIDIA March 2026
64% of respondents said their organizations are actively using AI in their 
operations. 28% said they're still in the assessment phase, while 8% said 
they're not using AI and have no plans to. Regional adoption among 
respondents was 70% in North America, 65% in EMEA, and 63% in APAC. 
Larger companies (with over 1000 employees) demonstrated broader 
adoption, deployed more use cases, and reported greater ROI. More than 
half of respondents (53%) said improved employee productivity was one of 
the biggest impacts AI had on business operations.
86% of respondents said their AI budgets would increase this year and 
nearly 40% said budgets would increase by 10% or more. Respondents 
reported that workflow and operations and retaining the right expertise to 
scale AI solutions were the key challenges to adoption. 
Deloitte January 2026
In the latest survey, 34% of companies were starting to use AI to deeply 
transform their businesses, 30% were designing key processes around AI, 
and the remaining 37% were using AI at the surface level with little or no 
change to underlying business processes. 84% of companies have not 
redesignated jobs or work tasks around AI capabilities. 25% of surveyed 
leaders reported that AI is having a transformative effect on their 
organizations, more than double from 12% a year ago. 
Survey results showed that insufficient employee skills were the largest 
barrier to integrating AI into existing workflows. Nearly three-quarters of 
surveyed companies expect to be using agentic AI at least moderately in two 
years. 
Gallup December 2025
The percentage of US employees who reported using AI at work at least a 
few times a week increased from 19% in 2025Q2 to 23% in Q3. 
Unsurprisingly, employees working in knowledge-based jobs (such as tech 
or professional services) were more likely to use AI than those in frontline 
positions. Most common use cases include using AI to consolidate 
information or data, idea generation, and automating basic tasks. Users 
most often use AI chatbots and virtual assistants. 
Gallup research has shown that employee AI adoption is strongly associated 
with having greater managerial support for AI and strategic integration of AI 
in their role, indicating that a strategic people-first approach is needed for 
effective AI adoption.

Green shading indicates surveys added since the last update.

Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   11
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 12

AI’s Impact on the Labor Market 
Labor Outcomes

Exhibit 16: Some Signs of a Negative Relationship Between AI Adoption and Labor Market Slack Indicators, Particularly 
Job Growth 
Regression of Industry-Level Labor Market Outcomes on...
-0.20
-0.15
-0.10
-0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
-0.20
-0.15
-0.10
-0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Job
Growth
Real Avg.
Hourly
Earnings
Growth
Avg.
Weekly
Hours
Growth
Unemp.
Rate
(inverted)
Job
Finding
Rate
Layoff
Rate
(inverted)
Establishment Survey Household Survey
Coefficient Coefficient  
Less slack
More slack
AI Exposure
-0.20
-0.15
-0.10
-0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
-0.20
-0.15
-0.10
-0.05
0.00
0.05
0.10
0.15
0.20
Job
Growth
Real Avg.
Hourly
Earnings
Growth
Avg.
Weekly
Hours
Growth
Unemp.
Rate
(inverted)
Job
Finding
Rate
Layoff
Rate
(inverted)
Establishment Survey Household Survey
Coefficient Coefficient  
Less slack
More slack
AI Adoption

Note: All dependent variables are taken as the deviation from 2015-19 averages. Average coefficient over the past three months is plotted.

Source: IPUMS, US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   12
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 13

Exhibit 17: Recent Negative Relationship Between Adoption and Employment Growth, but Still Not Statistically 
Significant

Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics, IPUMS, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   13
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 14

Exhibit 18: Employment Growth Continues to Underperform in Occupations (Specifically Tech) Where Anecdotes Suggest 
AI Is Having an Impact, but Employment Has Recovered Somewhat in Several Affected Non-Tech Sectors

Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 19: Job Growth Drag in AI-Affected Industries Has Reversed For Now 
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Average Monthly Job Growth in AI-Affected Industries*,
Last 3 Months
Latest:
4k
Thousands Thousands
*Management consulting, graphic design, office administration, telephone call centers, computer systems, software
publishers, web search, data processing, movie production, broadcasting, publishing, document preparation services.

Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   14
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 15

Exhibit 20: Tech’s Employment Share Continues to Decline Below Its Long-run Trend

Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 21: Unemployment Among Young Tech Workers Has Fallen Back in Line With 
Unemployment for All Tech Workers

Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics, IPUMS, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   15
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 16

Exhibit 22: We Continue to Observe a Slight Positive Correlation Between AI Adoption and 
Unemployment Among Younger Workers

Source: IPUMS, US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Census Bureau, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 23: AI Was Cited in Layoff Announcements Affecting 11k Employees in July 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
40
56789 1 0 1 1 1 2 123456789 1 0 1 1 1 2 123456789 1 0 1 1 1 2 1234567
"Technological Change" "Artificial Intelligence"
Thousands ThousandsLayoffs Attributed to Factor in Corporate Announcements:
Total (May 2023-July 2026):
199,763
20242023 2025 2026

Source: Challenger, Gray & Christmas, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   16
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 17

Labor Demand

Exhibit 24: Active AI-Related Job Postings Now Stand at 89k in the US

Source: University of Maryland, LinkUp, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 25: Share of AI-Related Job Postings Continues to Rise Across All Major DMs

Source: Indeed Hiring Lab, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   17
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 18

Exhibit 26: Construction Employment in Data Center-Exposed Categories Has Increased by +309k Since 2022, With a 
Sharp Acceleration in Recent Months 
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
-5.0
-2.5
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
-5.0
-2.5
0.0
2.5
5.0
7.5
10.0
Year-over-year Growth
HVAC Contractors
Electrical Contractors
Utility Construction
Commercial Building Construction
Total Data Center-Exposed Construction
Construction Overall
Percent, year ago Percent, year ago
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Change Since 2022 vs. Other 
Construction Employment Trend
HVAC Contractors
Electrical Contractors
Utility Construction
Commercial Building Construction
Total
Thousands Thousands

Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 27: 22% of Russell 3000 Companies Mentioned AI and Labor-Related Keywords in 2026Q2 Earnings Calls

Source: GS Data Works, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   18
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 19

AI’s Impact on Productivity

Exhibit 28: Evidence From Academic Studies Suggests AI Adoption Boosts Labor Productivity 
by Around 23% on Average... 
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
Ju Aral (2025)
Peng et al. (2023)
Gambacorta et al. (2024)
Weintraub et al. (2025)
Pastor-Merino (2025)
Abramoff (2023)
Noy Zhang (2023)
Kumar et al. 2025
Bono (2024)
Cambon et al. (2023)
Edelman et al. (2023)
Cui et al. (2024)
Cui et al. (2025)
Chen Wang (2025)
Lang et al. (2023)
Korinek (2023)
Brynjolfsson et al. (2023)
Cao et al. (2025)
Dell'Acqua et al. (2023)
Peng et al. (2023)
Fang et al. (2025)
Fourage et al. (2025)
Kanazawa et al. (2025)
Aldasoro et al. (2025)
Baslandze et al, (2026)
Kikuchi (2025)
Vaithilingam et al. (2022)
Becker et al (2025)
Percent PercentAcademic Studies
Median:   20%
Average:  23%

Source: Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 29: ... And Company Anecdotes Suggest an Average Productivity Boost of 32% 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
Autodesk
UC San Diego
Adobe
IBM
Deloitte
Tencent
Ness Digital
Eni
Ally Financial
PwC
C.H. Robinson
Block
Twilio
Paypal
Workday
SAP
ServiceNow
Citizen's Bank
Bank of America
Octopus Energy
Ernst & Young
Klarna
Planview
Percent PercentCompany Anecdotes
Median:   30%
Average:  32%

Source: Company data, Data compiled by Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   19
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 20

Exhibit 30: Industries with Higher Adoption Rates Continue to Show Slightly Stronger Productivity Growth

Note: Bubble size corresponds to total industry employment.

Source: US Bureau of Labor Statistics, Bureau of Economic Analysis, Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research

Exhibit 31: No Relationship Between Company Level AI Exposure and Margin Growth

Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research
1 September 2026   20
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 21

Latest GS Research on Artificial Intelligence 
Global Physical AI: Framing the Forward Progress of Humanoids, August 30 n
EM Asia FX/Rates Views: AI Exposure Driving Regional FX Disparity, August 29 n
Credit Notes: Expectations for Hyperscaler Debt Issuance: A Top-Down Approach, n
July 27 
Global Markets Daily: Tracking Shifts in the Market’s AI Views, August 25 n
Global Economics Comment: Is AI Impacting Global Labor Markets?, August 19 n
US Weekly Kickstart: What Q2 earnings reports signaled about the state of corporate n
AI adoption, August 14 
India: AI Tracker: AI adoption and its impact on India’s labour market, August 10 n
Global Economics Analyst: Assessing the Current Pace of AI Investment, August 2 n
For research from prior quarters, see the Artificial Intelligence page on our n
publishing portal.

### Page 22

Disclosure Appendix

### Page 23

(2016/958) supplementing Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (including as that Delegated Regulation is
implemented into United Kingdom domestic law and regulation following the United Kingdom’s departure from the European Union and the European
Economic Area) with regard to regulatory technical standards for the technical arrangements for objective presentation of investment
recommendations or other information recommending or suggesting an investment strategy and for disclosure of particular interests or indications of

Interest in Connection with Investment Research.
Japan: Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. is a Financial Instrument Dealer registered with the Kanto Financial Bureau under registration number Kinsho 69,
and a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, Financial Futures Association of Japan Type II Financial Instruments Firms Association, and
Investment Management Association of Japan. Sales and purchase of equities are subject to commission pre-determined with clients plus consumption

Association or the Japanese Securities Finance Company.
Global product; distributing entities
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research produces and distributes research products for clients of Goldman Sachs on a global basis. Analysts based
in Goldman Sachs offices around the world produce research on industries and companies, and research on macroeconomics, currencies, commodities
and portfolio strategy. This research is disseminated in Australia by Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd (ABN 21 006 797 897); in Brazil by Goldman Sachs

do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A.; Public Communication Channel Goldman Sachs Brazil: 0800 727 5764 and / or
contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Available Weekdays (except holidays), from 9am to 6pm. Canal de Comunicação com o Público Goldman Sachs Brasil:
0800 727 5764 e/ou contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Horário de funcionamento: segunda-feira à sexta-feira (exceto feriados), das 9h às 18h; in Canada
by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC; in Hong Kong by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.; in India by Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Ltd.; in Japan by

Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.; in the Republic of Korea by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch; in New Zealand by Goldman Sachs New Zealand
Limited; in Russia by OOO Goldman Sachs; in Singapore by Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W); and in the United States
of America by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. Goldman Sachs International has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United
Kingdom.
Goldman Sachs International (“GSI”), authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA ”) and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority

(“FCA ”) and the PRA, has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.
European Economic Area: Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) is a credit institution incorporated in Germany and, within the Single Supervisory
Mechanism, subject to direct prudential supervision by the European Central Bank and in other respects supervised by German Federal Financial
Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin) and Deutsche Bundesbank and disseminates research within the

consider reliable, but we do not represent it is accurate or complete, and it should not be relied on as such. The information, opinions, estimates and
forecasts contained herein are as of the date hereof and are subject to change without prior notification. We seek to update our research as
appropriate, but various regulations may prevent us from doing so. Other than certain industry reports published on a periodic basis, the large majority
of reports are published at irregular intervals as appropriate in the analyst’s judgment.

Our salespeople, traders, and other professionals may provide oral or written market commentary or trading strategies to our clients and principal
trading desks that reflect opinions that are contrary to the opinions expressed in this research. Our asset management area, principal trading desks and
investing businesses may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the recommendations or views expressed in this research.
We and our affiliates, officers, directors, and employees will from time to time have long or short positions in, act as principal in, make a market or act as

liquidity provider in, and buy or sell, any securities, derivatives, or other financial instruments referred to in this research (including any financial
instruments issued by the companies referred to herein), unless otherwise prohibited by regulation or Goldman Sachs policy.
The views attributed to third party presenters at Goldman Sachs arranged conferences, including individuals from other parts of Goldman Sachs, do not
necessarily reflect those of Global Investment Research and are not an official view of Goldman Sachs.

Any third party referenced herein, including any salespeople, traders and other professionals or members of their household, may have positions in the
products mentioned that are inconsistent with the views expressed by analysts named in this report.
This research is focused on investment themes across markets, industries and sectors. It does not attempt to distinguish between the prospects or
performance of, or provide analysis of, individual companies within any industry or sector we describe.

Any trading recommendation in this research relating to an equity or credit security or securities within an industry or sector is reflective of the
investment theme being discussed and is not a recommendation of any such security in isolation.
This research is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction where such an offer or solicitation would be illegal.
It does not constitute a personal recommendation or take into account the particular investment objectives, financial situations, or needs of individual

costs may be significant in option strategies calling for multiple purchase and sales of options such as spreads. Supporting documentation will be
supplied upon request.
Differing Levels of Service provided by Global Investment Research: The level and types of services provided to you by Goldman Sachs Global
Investment Research may vary as compared to that provided to internal and other external clients of GS, depending on various factors including your

individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communication, your risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g.,
1 September 2026   23
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

### Page 24

marketwide, sector specific, long term, short term), the size and scope of your overall client relationship with GS, and legal and regulatory constraints.
As an example, certain clients may request to receive notifications when research on specific securities is published, and certain clients may request
that specific data underlying analysts’ fundamental analysis available on our internal client websites be delivered to them electronically through data

feeds or otherwise. No change to an analyst’s fundamental research views (e.g., ratings, price targets, or material changes to earnings estimates for
equity securities), will be communicated to any client prior to inclusion of such information in a research report broadly disseminated through
electronic publication to our internal client websites or through other means, as necessary, to all clients who are entitled to receive such reports.
All research reports are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client websites. Not all

research content is redistributed to our clients or available to third-party aggregators, nor is Goldman Sachs responsible for the redistribution of our
research by third party aggregators. For research, models or other data related to one or more securities, markets or asset classes (including related
services) that may be available to you, please contact your GS representative or go to https://research.gs.com.
Disclosure information is also available at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html or from Research Compliance, 200 West Street, New York, NY

10282.
© 2026 Goldman Sachs.
You are permitted to store, display, analyze, modify, reformat, and print the information made available to you via this service only for your own use.
You may not resell or reverse engineer this information to calculate or develop any index for disclosure and/or marketing or create any other derivative
works or commercial product(s), data or offering(s) without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs. You are not permitted to publish, transmit,

or otherwise reproduce this information, in whole or in part, in any format to any third party without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs.
This foregoing restriction includes, without limitation, using, extracting, downloading or retrieving this information, in whole or in part, to train or
finetune a machine learning or artificial intelligence system, or to provide or reproduce this information, in whole or in part, as a prompt or input to any

such system.
1 September 2026   24
Goldman Sachs AI Adoption Tracker

---
## Document 189: Australia and NZ Weekly 14 September 2026 (2026-09-14)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Australia and NZ Weekly 14 September 2026 (2026-09-14).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 12
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
1WESTPAC ECONOMICS
AUSTRALIA &
NEW ZEALAND
WEEKLY
Week beginning 14 September 2026
In this week’s edition:
Economic Insight: Forecast update: firmer growth, higher cash rate.
The Week That Was: Frayed nerves unsettle expectations.
Focus on New Zealand: Economy shows resilience, but new risks looming.

For the week ahead:
Australia: Westpac-MI Leading Index, RBA's top brass appear before House of Representatives.
New Zealand: Q2 GDP, current account, selected price indices, consumer confidence, card spending.
Japan: BoJ policy decision, CPI.
China: retail sales, industrial production, fixed asset investment.
Euro Area: industrial production, trade balance.
United Kingdom: BoE policy decision, CPI, unemployment rate, retail sales, consumer sentiment.

United States: FOMC policy decision, retail sales, industrial production, import prices.
Analysis and forecasts for this week’s key releases.
Information contained in this report current as at 11 September 2026.

### Page 2

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
2
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
ECONOMIC INSIGHT
The likelihood of an additional rate hike has risen enough
to make a November hike (+25bp to 4.6%) the base case
again. When we last changed our view on RBA policy, we
emphasised that risks of further hikes should not be ruled
out. We also said that it was prudent to continue pricing in

some chance of a November hike. But with the data having
consistently broken to the soft side in the lead-up to the
August meeting, and pass-through from fuel to non-fuel
prices easing, that probability dropped below 50% for
a time. The data flow and narrative have since changed
direction and shifted that probability higher again.
The main reasons for the shift are the growing evidence of a
more resilient household sector, and a larger-than-expected

impetus from the spillovers from the data centre boom.
National accounts and internal data have pointed to stronger
household incomes in Q2 and onwards, which means spending
will be more resilient over the near term even with sentiment
stuck at historically weak levels. Although the housing market
is looking weaker than our previously published forecasts, its
impact on consumer spending is more than offset by the wider
boost coming from a globally-driven surge in tech-related

spending. An unprecedented pipeline of investment in data
centres and associated renewable electricity generation and
distribution is expected to drive business investment and so
GDP growth – but also limit the pace of disinflation.
Tactically, we believe RBA leadership would strongly favour
a November hike over September. Overreacting to a noisy
monthly print is something they have previously said they would
not do. That said, if the internal members felt the situation was

more urgent and wanted to get the hike done in September, we
believe they could muster a majority of Monetary Policy Board
(MPB) votes in favour. Either way, the September decision may
see a split vote, with some members coming into the meeting
with different views about supply capacity and the state of the
labour market. On balance, we do not think a September hike
this is the most likely outcome and expect the MPB to prefer to
wait for the full quarterly inflation data and revised forecasts to

confirm the need for a rate increase. Clearly the probability of
the September scenario is not zero, however. We will therefore
be watching today’s RBA communication closely for signs that
the leadership is anxious to move.
Domestic demand growth forecasts have been upgraded, and
(to a lesser extent) so are our GDP forecasts. Data centre and
renewables investment are highly import-intensive. In addition,
much of the upside surprise on household spending has been

showing up in (imported) EVs and overseas travel. Much of the
upgrade to domestic demand growth is therefore matched by
Forecast update: firmer growth, higher cash rate
Forecast changes
• A full update to our forecasts has been published in our
September Market Outlook .
Luci Ellis
Chief Economist, Westpac Group
higher imports, with a smaller net impact on GDP growth. There
are enough spillovers to domestic activity, though, for us to
upgrade the expected trough in GDP growth to around 1.5%yr

over 2026, compared with the 1.0%yr we had anticipated prior
to the June quarter National Accounts. This is still below the
RBA’s downbeat view of trend growth – and further below our
own – implying spare capacity will emerge over time.
More broadly, we have been revisiting the forecasts and
overarching narratives behind those forecasts ahead of our
September Market Outlook, to be published on Friday. Growth
is stronger and housing prices are weaker. The tech sector is

adding new cost pressures not evident previously. But while
Q3 inflation is looking to be stronger than Q2 (and Q4), the
higher cash rate profile means that the inflation outlook for
2027 and 2028 is little changed from before.  The underlying
story is one of a global technology and investment boom
driving stronger business investment in Australia, supported
by healthy business balance sheets. The handover from strong
public demand growth has happened, and supply capacity is

rising, as infrastructure projects complete and in line with the
shorter lead times on data centre production.
We have not changed our assessment of the timing or
number of cuts to the cash rate, pencilling in three 25bp cuts
starting August 2027. This leaves the whole path for the cash
rate 25bps higher than our earlier expectations, consistent
with the emerging impetus from business investment. We
do not have strong conviction about the exact timing of the

unwind of restrictive monetary policy, but we expect the RBA
to take a cautious approach given last year’s experience and
the Bank’s downbeat starting assessments of capacity, labour
supply and productivity growth. Trimmed mean inflation ends
2028 somewhat below the midpoint of the RBA’s 2–3% target
range, and there are scenarios where inflation undershoots the
target entirely in late 2028 or 2029.
The table below shows the high-level forecasts motivating

our change in rates view. Further detail has been published in
Market Outlook today.
Forecasts in percent  Dec 2026  Dec 2027  Dec 2028
GDP growth (%yr)  1.5  1.7  2.5
Trimmed mean inflation (%yr)  3.3  2.7  2.3
Unemployment rate   4.7  4.7  4.5
RBA cash rate  4.6  4.1  3.85
Dwelling price growth  –6  3  8

### Page 3

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
3
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
THE WEEK THAT WAS
Cliff Notes: frayed nerves unsettle expectations
continued to edge up in Q2, maintaining full employment and
indicating marginal labour supply is available to meet demand.
The US PPI subsequently met expectations in August, growth

accelerating from a revised 0.1% (prev 0.0%) in July to 0.4%.
Excluding food and energy, growth was a touch weaker than
expected at 0.2%, offset by a 0.1ppt upward revision to July
to 0.3%. Annual PPI inflation accelerated to 5.4%, or 4.6%
excluding food and energy.
Coming after last Friday’s above expectations August nonfarm
payroll release, in which 162k new positions were reported
along with 55k in back revisions to June and July, and given the

latest surge in the price of oil, the August PPI result further
solidified the market’s concerns over inflation risks, the US
10-year ranging up to just below 5.0% as a result. At the short
end, participants are now debating whether to price in a fourth
hike by the FOMC over the coming year, with three 25bp
increases fully priced by April.
As expected, and unsurprisingly given the above data and
market developments, the ECB then delivered a 25bp hike

at their September meeting. The risks were characterised as
skewed towards prices, with inflation "to remain well above
target for an extended period" primarily as a result of the
effect on energy prices of the Middle East conflict and the
Russia / Ukraine war.
The "new ECB staff projections sees headline inflation
averaging 3.0% in 2026, 2.5% in 2027 and 2.1% in 2028".
"For inflation excluding energy and food, the baseline foresees
2.5% in 2026, 2.6% in 2027 and 2.3% in 2028." These

forecasts are unchanged for 2026, but higher in 2027 and
2028 than in June. Despite the persistence in inflation and
need for tighter policy, the ECB remains constructive on the
growth outlook. "The baseline projection for economic growth
is 0.9% for 2026, 1.4% for 2027 and 1.5% for 2028. This is an
upward revision for both 2026 and 2027, mainly reflecting the
greater than expected resilience of the euro area economy."
The Governing Council is acutely aware of the uncertainty and

risks ahead, and are committed to determining policy meeting
by meeting. From their guidance, it is clear the Council are
comfortable with their current position and capacity to adjust
policy in real time to meet their medium-term mandate.
After reviewing last week’s National Accounts, we revised
our RBA call, reinstating a 25bp November rate hike.
Domestic demand is proving more resilient than we had
anticipated, buoyed by stronger household incomes and

a large pipeline of data centre and renewable energy
investment, limiting the pace of disinflation.
Markets are pricing in a circa 80% chance of a September
rate hike, but we believe the Board will prefer to wait for
confirmation from the full quarterly inflation data and its
revised forecasts. Our own forecast updates will be published
in our September Market Outlook later today on Westpac IQ.
This week’s sentiment surveys also served as a reminder that

downside risks to growth are still present in Australia.
Westpac-MI Consumer Sentiment  buckled in September, the
5.2% decline to 84.4 unwinding much of August’s gain and
leaving sentiment near the pessimistic lows of early-2026.
Cost-of-living pressures clearly remain front of mind,
highlighted by the 9.2% drop in ‘family finances vs a year ago’.
The recent rebound in fuel prices, renewed concerns about
inflation's persistence and anxiety over the need for additional

monetary tightening all weighed heavily in the month. These
concerns, alongside the downbeat assessment on housing
markets, also produced a more pessimistic reading on broader
economic conditions, with both the one-year and five-year
ahead measures down 4.0% and 4.5% in the month.
Businesses are hardly brimming with optimism either, the
August NAB business survey reporting that business confidence
slipped further into negative territory to –8 in August. Conditions

also fell 5pts to –1, the weakest reading since the pandemic.
Weaker profitability was the chief culprit behind the decline,
slumping to its lowest level in years as firms grapple with
softer demand, higher interest rates and elevated input costs.
Indeed, gauges of purchase costs and labour cost growth
continue to run at above-average levels, and trading conditions
have weakened to cycle lows. As for the consumer, downside
risks persist for business.

Offshore, the flow of data was light ahead of last night’s ECB
meeting and tonight’s US CPI update.
Data for the Euro Area was constructive early in the week,
GDP growth revised up from 0.4% to 0.6% in the third
estimate for Q2, taking the annual rate up to 1.2%yr. In the
quarter, household consumption showed strength, up 0.4%,
and government expenditure lifted 0.2%. Business investment
was a partial offset, edging down 0.1%. Employment also
Elliot Clarke, Head of International Economics

Ryan Wells, Economist

### Page 4

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
4
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOCUS ON NEW ZEALAND
Economy shows resilience, but new risks looming
The most recent data continues to show that the New
Zealand economy has held its ground, better than we dared
to hope in the early stages of the Middle East oil shock.
We’re expecting a modest rise in next Thursday’s June

quarter GDP figures, but seasonal distortions mean that
this will likely understate the true pace of growth. We’re
far from out of the woods though, with looming risks from
a resurgence in oil prices, the impending election, and the
prospect of an El Niño summer.
We’re now expecting a 0.2% rise in GDP for the June quarter .
That’s an upgrade from our previous forecast of a 0.1% decline,
reflecting the final sectoral indicators that were released
over the last week. This would see the annual growth rate

accelerate from 1.5% to 2.4%, due to an unusually weak June
quarter last year (-0.7%) dropping out of the calculation.
As we’ve noted in the past , the calculation of GDP leads to
seasonal distortions, which currently have a negative impact
on June quarter growth rates. We estimate that this will
subtract around 0.3ppts from growth this time, implying a
healthier-looking underlying rate of 0.5% for the quarter. This
would follow a 0.8% rise in the March quarter that was itself

probably overstated to the tune of 0.3ppts. In other words, the
true picture is probably one of sustained modest growth rather
than a slowdown.
Our forecast is higher than the flat outturn that the RBNZ
expected in its September Monetary Policy Statement (which
didn’t have the benefit of the most recent sectoral data). A
stronger than expected GDP result could certainly assuage
some of the committee members’ concerns about downside
risks to growth, but on balance we suspect they will be looking

more to the evidence on inflation (such as the NZIER business
survey on the 6th of October and the CPI on the 22nd), and
emerging evidence of economic momentum through the
September quarter and beyond, to determine their next move.
Since the Monetary Policy Statement , committee members
have been giving several media interviews and reproducing
their comments on the RBNZ website – part of a welcome push
this year towards greater transparency. This week featured

interviews by Prasanna Gai, who has been a hawkish-leaning
and seemingly quite influential member since the Middle East
conflict began. On this occasion, Gai’s views came across as a
little more balanced, which contributed to the outperformance
of New Zealand interest rates early in the week.
While Gai acknowledged that he had voted for a pre-emptive
OCR increase in May, he stressed that this view had always
been conditional on inflation expectations and firms’ pricing

behaviour. Given that these indicators have remained relatively
contained, he said he now viewed the decision to leave the OCR
unchanged in May as appropriate. Perhaps more surprisingly,
Gai said he did not hold a strong view on whether the OCR
would ultimately need to move into restrictive territory.
Gai also provided insight into his thinking on the neutral OCR.
He argued that the neutral rate is inherently uncertain and
should be viewed as a range rather than a precise estimate.

While geopolitical tensions, infrastructure rebuilding, defence
spending and other global investment demands could place
upward pressure on the neutral interest rate, he stressed that
the magnitude of any such shift is highly uncertain. For now, he
said he was comfortable with the RBNZ’s current estimate of
neutral and added that it was plausible that the OCR is already
operating within the neutral zone.
Overall, the interview suggested Gai remains alert to inflation

risks but that he is not advocating an aggressive tightening
path, instead placing significant weight on incoming evidence
and the evolving balance between inflation and growth risks.
On that score, rather than focusing on near-term inflation
outcomes, Gai emphasised the importance of forward-looking
indicators such as inflation expectations and survey evidence
on firms’ pricing intentions.
Cruel summer
A strong El Niño pattern has been developing in the Pacific

Ocean and is tracking to be one of the largest on record –
we’ve seen references to a “Godzilla” event as far back as May.
El Niño typically means a high risk of hot, dry conditions across
our eastern regions and the upper North Island, which includes
some of our key farming regions.
We’ve released a report this week  looking at the potential
impacts of a drought this summer: where the effects may
fall, the potential mitigants, and the macro implications. Past

severe droughts have subtracted as much as one percentage
point from GDP growth, though we’d emphasise that this
represents an upper bound rather than a forecast this time
around. Every event plays out differently, and the farming
sector has evolved towards more resilience in the almost
30 years since the last El Niño-led drought. Nevertheless,
this gives us an idea of how far we might need to adjust our
forecasts for 2027 as things develop.
Michael Gordon

Senior Economist

### Page 5

NZ: Aug REINZ House Sales and Prices (%yr) 
Sep 15, Sales Last: –10.0, Prices Last: –0.4
The housing market remained soft in July, with sales falling to 
their lowest level in two years and prices remaining broadly flat. 
Conditions remain stronger in the south, with prices up on last 
year in Canterbury, Otago and Southland, while Auckland and 
Wellington remain the weakest markets. Fixed-term mortgage 
rates rose further in August in anticipation of RBNZ tightening, 
and a growing supply of unsold homes on the market means 
that buyers are under no pressure to bid prices higher.
NZ: Aug Retail Card Spending (%mth)
Sep 15, Last: 1.3, Westpac f/c: –0.2
Retail spending rose 1.3% in July. That was in part due to 
large increases in discretionary spending categories, including 
household durables (e.g. household furnishings). Spending 
in such areas can be lumpy on a month-to-month basis, and 
a reversal is likely this month. As a result, we’re forecasting 
a small fall in spending in August. Adding to the downward 
pressures has been the continued high level of fuel prices, which 
pushed higher over the month. Retail spending has been very 
volatile in the wake of the fuel price shock. Stepping back and 
looking at the longer-term trend, spending growth has been 
relatively modest in recent months.

### Page 6

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.6
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
NZ: Q3 Westpac-McDermott Miller Consumer
Confidence (index)
Sep 16, Last: 80.4
Our latest consumer confidence survey was in the field in
the first two weeks of September.  In the previous survey,
consumer confidence fell sharply as the impacts from the war

in the Middle East rippled across the global economy through
to wallets here in New Zealand. Since that time, fuel prices
have dropped back, but they remain high. We’ve also had the
RBNZ starting to lift the Official Cash Rate. At the same time,
we seen continued strength in commodity export prices, which
is helping to boost incomes in many regions.
NZ: Q2 Current Account Balance (% of GDP)
Sep 16, Last: –3.6, Westpac f/c: –3.7, Market f/c: –3.9
As usual, the release of the June quarter Balance of Payments

will see Stats NZ incorporate revisions based on annual
benchmarks. Revisions to goods and services trade data, already
released earlier this month, point to a slightly smaller current
account deficit in the year to March. However, this impact
could be offset or amplified by yet to be published revisions to
investment income flows. On the assumption that the latter
revisions are small, we expect the annual current account deficit
will widen in the June quarter to 3.7% of GDP, with higher

energy prices contributing to strong growth in imports.
NZ: Q2 GDP (%qtr)
Sep 17, Last: 0.8, Westpac f/c: 0.2, Market f/c: 0.1
We expect a 0.2% rise in GDP for the June quarter. That’s an
improvement on our earlier forecasts of a small decline, with
the New Zealand economy weathering the Middle East oil
shock better than we hoped. Retail spending, and particularly
hospitality, was the most visible casualty of the conflict, as
higher fuel prices squeezed household budgets. But other

sectors such as construction, wholesaling and agriculture
continued to benefit from the growth-supportive factors
that were already in place: the low level of interest rates and
strong demand for our key exports.

### Page 7

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
7
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
NZ: Aug Selected Consumer Prices (%mth)
Sep 18
Stats NZ’s monthly prices update is expected to leave us with
a picture of annual headline inflation tracking in the high-3’s
through the second half of the year, with core inflation at
firm levels. Looking at some of the big groups, we expect a

2% rise in petrol prices and a 0.4% rise in food prices. On the
downside, further softness in housing rents is likely. A key area
to watch will be the volatile travel categories. Last month saw
large increases in the cost of services like airfares. While those
increases are likely seasonal, given elevated fuel costs those
prices could remain high for some time. That would reinforce a
firm picture for underlying inflation.
US: FOMC Policy Decision (%)

Sep 16-17, Last: 3.625, Westpac f/c: 3.875
Market f/c: 3.625, Range: 3.625 to 3.875
Recent developments in the US and Middle East require
an urgent reset of expectations across markets. Fears over
inflation need to be quelled, both for the short and long-term.
And the Committee needs to be seen to react to the market’s
concerns and give clear guidance on their approach into 2027.
As such, while we believe the underlying inflation detail is
supportive of the return of headline inflation to 2.0%yr in the

medium-term, we expect the FOMC to raise the fed funds rate
by 25bps in September and to follow up with another 25bp
hike in Q4. On hold policy through 2027 is then expected to
allow disinflation to progress, justifying two cuts in 2028.
Downside risks remain for activity, but uncertainty over
inflation is the dominant concern.

### Page 8

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
8
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
FOR THE WEEK AHEAD
What to watch
For Data/Event Unit Last Market f/c
Westpac
f/c Risk/Comment
Mon 14
Aus RBA Assist’ Governor (Economic) – – – – Hunter fireside chat at 12:30pm AEST.
NZ Aug Performance Services Index index 50.6 – – Improving in recent months, but still a relatively soft sector.

Jul Net Migration no. 1610 – – Balance has turned more positive as NZer departures slow.
Tue 15
NZ Aug REINZ House Prices %yr –0.4 – – Buyer enthusiasm dampened by rising mortgage rates ...
Aug REINZ House Sales %yr –10.0 – – ... and an ample supply of homes on the market.
Aug Retail Card Spending %mth 1.3 – –0.2 Modest reversal of last month's large gain.
Chn Aug Retail Sales ytd %yr 1.2 – – Consumers lack confidence and are incredibly cautious ...

Aug Industrial Production ytd %yr 5.3 – – ... manufacturing output has proved more resilient, but ...
Aug Fixed Asset Investment ytd %yr –6.7 –7.1 – ... it is yet to translate to a sustained uptrend for investment.
Eur Sep ZEW Survey Of Expectations index 31.4 – – Consistent with an imminent rebound; will official data follow?
Jul Trade Balance €bn 1.8 – – Back into surplus after tariff-related disruption.
UK Jul ILO Unemployment Rate % 4.9 5.0 – Spare capacity in labour market a disinflationary force.

US Sep Fed Empire State Manufacturing index 20.6 14.1 – Business conditions have improved over the past year.
Wed 16
Aus Aug Westpac–MI Leading Index %ann'd –0.2 – – Growth momentum is a little less sluggish.
NZ Q3 Westpac-MM Consumer Confidence index 80.4 – – Surveyed in the first two weeks of September.
Q2 Current Account Balance % of GDP –3.6 –3.9 –3.7 Annual revisions add uncertainty, but Q2 to be wider than Q1.
Jpn Jul Core Machinery Orders %mth 9.7 –5.1 – An incredibly volatile gauge of investment, especially recently.

Eur Jul Industrial Production %mth 0.0 –0.9 – Temporary shutdown of German car manufacturing will weigh.
UK Aug CPI %ann 2.9 3.0 – Energy bills jump, but core inflation otherwise stable.
US Aug Import Price Index %mth –0.4 – – Consumers paying the price for circa 6% import inflation.
Aug Retail Sales %mth –0.6 0.9 – July’s fall may unwind following mid-year sales distortions.
Sep NAHB Housing Market index 35 34 – Housing sentiment remains near all-time lows.

FOMC Policy Decision % 3.625 3.625 3.875 Urgent reset of market expectations is necessary.
Thu 17
NZ Q2 GDP %qtr 0.8 0.1 0.2 Underlying pace of growth steady despite the Iran conflict.
Eur Aug CPI %ann 3.3 – – Final estimate to provide more colour on component mix.
UK Sep BoE Policy Decision % 3.75 3.75 3.75 Policy is well above neutral, sufficient to curb inflation risks.
US Sep Phily Fed Manufacturing index 47.4 28.6 – August delivered the strongest reading since 2021.

Initial Jobless Claims 000s 206 – – Continue to signal limited labour market stress.
Aug Housing Starts %mth –12.4 6.9 – Housing starts remains volatile ...
Aug Building Permits %mth 4.3 –0.9 – ... while permits point to steadier activity ...
Aug Pending Home Sales %mth –2.3 – – ... with affordability pressures weighing on demand.
Fri 18
Aus RBA Testimony – – – – RBA’s top brass appears before House of Reps, 9:30am AEST.
NZ Aug Selected Price Indices - Food %mth 0.1 – 0.4 Increases in meat and grocery prices.

Aug Selected Price Indices - Rents %mth –0.1 – 0.0 Ample supply continues to weigh on rents.
Aug Trade Balance $mn –1949 – –2410 Another large deficit, seasonal export lull, fuel boosts imports.
Jpn Aug CPI %ann 1.9 2.0 – Inflation has re-accelerated in recent months ...
Sep BoJ Policy Decision % 1.00 1.25 1.25 ... strengthening the case for further BoJ tightening.
UK Sep GfK Consumer Sentiment index –14 – – Confidence has recovered to a two-year high ...

Aug Retail Sales %mth –0.5 – – ... but growth still appears to be running below trend.
US Aug Industrial Production %mth 0.2 0.3 – Output growth has remained positive.
Aug Leading Index pts 0.2 0.2 – Points to modest growth in coming months.

### Page 9

the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The results ultimately achieved may differ substantially from these forecasts.
9
WESTPAC ECONOMICS
LOOKING FURTHER AHEAD
Interest rate forecasts
Australia Latest (11 Sep) Dec–26 Mar–27 Jun–27 Sep–27 Dec–27 Mar–28 Jun–28 Sep–28 Dec–28
Cash 4.35 4.60 4.60 4.60 4.35 4.10 3.85 3.85 3.85 3.85
90 Day BBSW 4.67 4.70 4.70 4.55 4.30 4.05 3.85 3.95 3.95 3.95

3 Year Swap 5.01 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.25 4.20 4.15 4.10
3 Year Bond 5.03 4.65 4.60 4.50 4.40 4.30 4.25 4.20 4.15 4.10
10 Year Bond 5.38 5.20 5.10 5.00 4.90 4.85 4.80 4.80 4.80 4.80
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 42 40 35 30 25 15 5 0 –5 –10
United States
Fed Funds 3.625 4.125 4.125 4.125 4.125 4.125 3.875 3.625 3.625 3.625
US 10 Year Bond 4.96 4.80 4.75 4.70 4.65 4.70 4.75 4.80 4.85 4.90
New Zealand
Cash 2.75 3.00 3.50 3.75 4.00 4.00 4.00 4.00 3.75 3.75

90 Day Bill 3.09 3.40 3.75 4.00 4.20 4.20 4.20 4.15 3.95 3.95
2 Year Swap 4.05 3.95 4.10 4.25 4.20 4.20 4.15 4.15 4.10 4.10
10 Year Bond 5.02 4.75 4.90 5.00 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05 5.05
10 Year Spread to US (bps) 6 –5 15 30 40 35 30 25 20 15
Exchange rate forecasts
Latest (11 Sep) Dec-26 Mar-27 Jun-27 Sep-27 Dec-27 Mar-28 Jun-28 Sep-28 Dec-28
AUD/USD 0.7162 0.72 0.72 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.73 0.72 0.72 0.72
NZD/USD 0.5816 0.59 0.61 0.63 0.64 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65 0.65

USD/JPY 154.32 155 154 153 152 151 150 149 148 146
EUR/USD 1.1615 1.17 1.18 1.19 1.20 1.21 1.22 1.22 1.21 1.21
GBP/USD 1.3513 1.35 1.36 1.37 1.38 1.39 1.40 1.41 1.41 1.40
USD/CNY 6.7114 6.70 6.60 6.50 6.45 6.40 6.35 6.35 6.30 6.30
AUD/NZD 1.2314 1.22 1.19 1.16 1.14 1.12 1.12 1.11 1.11 1.11
Australian economic forecasts
2026 2027 Calendar years
% change Q1 Q2 Q3(f) Q4(f) Q1(f) Q2(f) Q3(f) Q4(f) 2025 2026(f) 2027(f) 2028(f)
GDP %qtr 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.4 0.4 0.4 0.5 0.5 – – – –

%yr end 2.5 2.1 2.1 1.5 1.7 1.6 1.6 1.7 2.6 1.5 1.7 2.5
Unemployment rate % 4.2 4.4 4.5 4.7 4.7 4.8 4.8 4.7 4.3 4.7 4.7 4.5
Wages (WPI) (sa) %qtr 0.8 0.8 1.0 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 0.8 – – – –
%yr end 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.2 3.4 3.4 3.2 3.4
Headline CPI %qtr 1.4 0.6 1.3 0.5 0.7 0.6 0.7 0.4 – – – –
%yr end 4.1 3.9 3.9 3.7 3.0 3.0 2.5 2.4 3.6 3.7 2.4 2.3
Trimmed Mean CPI %qtr 0.8 0.8 0.9 0.7 0.8 0.7 0.6 0.6 – – – –
%yr end 3.5 3.6 3.5 3.3 3.2 3.1 2.8 2.7 3.3 3.3 2.7 2.3

Economic & financial forecasts
New Zealand economic forecasts
2026 2027 Calendar years
% Change Q1 Q2(f) Q3(f) Q4(f) Q1(f) Q2(f) Q3(f) Q4(f) 2025 2026(f) 2027(f) 2028(f)
GDP %qtr 0.8 0.2 0.6 0.8 1.1 0.5 0.6 0.7 – – – –
Annual avg change 0.8 1.6 1.9 2.1 2.3 2.4 2.6 2.7 0.3 2.1 2.7 3.1
Unemployment rate % 5.4 5.6 5.5 5.4 5.3 5.2 5.1 4.9 5.4 5.4 4.9 4.4
CPI %qtr 0.9 1.5 0.7 0.6 0.4 0.4 0.6 0.3 – – – –
Annual change 3.1 4.1 3.7 3.7 3.2 2.1 2.0 1.7 3.1 3.7 1.7 2.1

### Page 11

©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including
where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne
or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References to the “Westpac
Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors,
employees and representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here , or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.

Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we can
accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make improvements
for you. We may at times use technology to capture data about you to
help us to better understand you and your needs, including potentially
for the purposes of assessing your individual reading habits and
interests to allow us to provide suggestions regarding other reading
material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is under

contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way, transmitted
to, copied of distributed to any other party without the prior written
permission of the Westpac Group.

solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for, purchase or
sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally binding contract.
To the extent that this information contains any general advice, it has
been prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice. Certain types of transactions, including
those involving futures, options and high yield securities give rise to

related entities is under any obligation to update this information or
correct any inaccuracy which may become apparent at a later date.
This information may contain or incorporate by reference forward
looking statements. The words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”,
“intend”, “plan”, “predict”, “continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”,
“will”, “should”, “shall”, “risk” and other similar expressions that are
predictions of or indicate future events and future trends identify

forward-looking statements. These forward-looking statements
include all matters that are not historical facts. Past performance is
not a reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of

future performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable, the
forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by known or
unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes may differ
substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act
in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,

distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may impact
the performance of that financial instrument.

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her
personal views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if
applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed to be reliable
and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are not in
receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside

information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac Group has made any
attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are subject
to known and unknown risks, and there are significant uncertainties,
limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics, modelling, data,
scenarios, reporting and analysis on which the statements rely. In

particular, these areas are rapidly evolving and maturing, and there
are variations in approaches and common standards and practice, as
well as uncertainty around future related policy and legislation. Some
material may include information derived from publicly available
sources that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or reliability

of the information. There is a risk that the analysis, estimates,
judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios or projections
used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may cause actual
outcomes to differ materially from those expressed or implied. The
ESG-related statements in this material do not constitute advice,
nor are they guarantees or predictions of future performance, and
Westpac gives no representation, warranty or assurance (including

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence (No.
233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide here or
request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the extent that this
information contains any general advice, it has been prepared without
taking into account your objectives, financial situation or needs and before
acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to

the brand under which products and services are provided by either
Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited (company
number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of
Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made available by WNZL
does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect
of any such product. WNZL is not an authorised deposit-taking

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable Singapore

laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material in Singapore
should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect of any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Westpac
Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is subject to
supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Disclaimer continues overleaf

### Page 12

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac
Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does not
take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it
you should consider the appropriateness of the information for your
financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457
141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in

Fiji. The liability of its members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account
and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of the
information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation
ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is

Currency. Westpac is also registered with the US Commodity Futures
Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a Swap Dealer, but is neither
registered as, or affiliated with, a Futures Commission Merchant
registered with the US CFTC. The services and products referenced
above are not insured by the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation
(“FDIC”). Westpac Capital Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned
subsidiary of Westpac, is a broker-dealer registered under the U.S.

with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related
Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S. institutional
investors in reliance on the exemption from registration provided by
Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act and is not subject to all of the

reports prepared for retail investors in the United States. WCM is the
U.S. distributor of this communication and accepts responsibility for
the contents of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of
any securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM. All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WCM. If
you would like to speak to someone regarding any security mentioned
herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389 1269. Investing in any

non-U.S. securities or related financial instruments mentioned in this
communication may present certain risks. The securities of non-U.S.
issuers may not be registered with, or be subject to the regulations
of, the SEC in the United States. Information on such non-U.S.
securities or related financial instruments may be limited. Non-U.S.
companies may not be subject to audit and reporting standards and
regulatory requirements comparable to those in effect in the United

States. The value of any investment or income from any securities
or related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from such
securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not
registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or associated

person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the rules of
FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views
expressed herein are solely those of the author and may differ from the
information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United
Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject

to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) and limited
regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).
The London branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as
a branch established in the United Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106).
Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London branch
by the PRA are available from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must
not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom. Rather,

this communication is being made only to and is directed at (a) those
persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals
(set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”)); (b) those
persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies,
unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c)
other persons to whom it may lawfully be communicated in accordance

with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant
persons”). Any person who is not a relevant person should not act or
rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same way, the
information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible
counterparties” and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of
the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.

Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed
to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH
(“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not edited or
otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised
in Germany by the Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’)
and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin

and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is
registered with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local
court of Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.
In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other
than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-
participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and WEG

and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any
product or service made available by WEG does not represent an
offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WEG). All
disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any
person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such distribution
or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’, both
as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as applicable
in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with the relevant
provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to ensure that the
material has been objectively presented and that interests or conflicts
of interest of the sender concerning the financial instruments to which
that information relates have been disclosed.

To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research. It has
not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements designed
to promote the independence of investment research and therefore
constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this communication is
not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of
investment research.

---
## Document 202: Capital Market Outlook (2026-09-14)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Capital Market Outlook (2026-09-14).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

CHIEF INVESTMENT OFFICE
Capital Market Outlook

### Page 2

2 of 8 September 14, 2026 – Capital Market Outlook RETURN TO FIRST PAGE
MACRO STRATEGY
Superintelligence and Superabundance in the Next Decade
Chief Investment Office, Macro Strategy Team
While some academics have claimed the Singularity is still off in the distant future, or even
unlikely at all, those on the front lines of AI model development have recently asserted that it
has already begun. For example, Elon Musk has pointed to recent issues with AI models going

outside their proscribed limits, including hacking external systems and completing previously
unsolved math problems. Over a year ago, Sam Altman wrote, "We are past the event horizon; the
takeoff has started. Humanity is close to building superintelligence..." In short, the rapid evolution
of these models has convinced knowledgeable observers that the Singularity has begun.
Superintelligence is the primary driver of the Singularity as exponential advances in AI ultimately

create an artificial Superintelligence that is much smarter and faster than the collective
intelligence of humanity. As such, it can solve practical problems that remain unsolved by humans
and do it in a timely fashion. Superabundance is the logical implication of Superintelligence
as it works to create a world where economic goods, services and energy are essentially free
because of the omniscience implied by the most efficient processing of unlimited information by

superintelligent models. In essence, Superintelligence could mimic the Creation.
Some aspects of Superabundance include automated production of desired output that
eliminates most physical labor, clean energy and synthetic materials that eliminate resource
scarcity, and increased longevity as Superintelligence is applied to maintaining physical health
via, for example, synthetic organ replacement and personalized illness treatments. Obviously,
Superabundance pulls the rug out from under traditional economics, which is the study of how

scarce resources are allocated. While the "scarcity" vanishes in this new world, the allocation issue
remains and is likely to become the focus of political debate. In particular, the question of how
jobs and incomes fit into a superabundant world is likely to become a bigger and bigger issue.
The trend of technology replacing more and more of the labor share of income is already decades
old and dates back to the beginnings of digital technology. That trend has picked up speed

with the increasing profit share of output the new technologies created. The ratio of income
to the number of workers is orders of magnitude higher for the big new technology companies
compared to the old economy companies of the past. This means the owners of capital
(shareholders) are receiving a bigger share of the economic pie as high-margin, high-productivity
companies based in the new technology become a bigger part of the economy. This trend is

accelerating. That is a direct implication of the movement toward and through the Singularity.
It means the issue of income inequality, which has always been on society's radar screen, will
become bigger in the years ahead unless there are wise policies to share the superabundance
of the near future. Some countries are better prepared for this future than others. Norway,
for example, has built a sovereign wealth fund (SWF) over the past 25 years that represents a

substantial share of capital income for each of its citizens. In the U.S., with its widespread equity
culture, thanks to Individual Retirement Accounts and 401K plans, capital income is more widely
distributed compared to Europe with its much more debt-based capital markets. In any event,
widespread equity ownership is one way to deal with a superabundant economy where AI has
significantly reduced the labor share of income.
Demographics add to the natural evolution from labor income to capital income as societies

become wealthier. Aging societies of retirees by definition depend on capital income more than
labor income. This transition of the economy to higher margins and faster earnings growth is
the fortunate accompaniment to the need for more income from capital as societies become
older. The longevity trend naturally accelerates this process, which is the logical result of
technological progress raising productivity and living standards. People live longer in wealthy

societies, as subsistence constraints on life spans diminish while lifestyle and mental health
constraints become more the issue. How lifestyles and mental health evolve in a world where
work becomes less necessary is already showing signs of their increased importance for the
future of public health.
The current accelerating profits cycle reflects this impact of new technology on the relative
returns to labor and capital. The trend so far has been relatively slow compared to what's

coming if Superintelligence and Superabundance are the outcomes the Singularity promises as
increasingly seems likely. Because much financial analysis relies on past cycles the accelerating
Investment Implications
Rapid innovation, political upheaval
and increasing creative destruction
raise the difficulty of valuing
longer duration assets as we saw
earlier this year in the software
space. Higher-risk premia are a
likely result. On balance, this favors

Value-oriented assets over Growth.
Higher real yields in a strong capital
spending environment reinforce this
preference.

### Page 3

3 of 8 September 14, 2026 – Capital Market Outlook RETURN TO FIRST PAGE
profits and rising margins of the current economy have naturally focused attention on what
happens when conditions revert to the mean of lower margins and more historically normal
profit growth. Looked at through this lens, Equities appear overvalued and destined to correct
bubble-like conditions. The Singularity, however, implies "this time is different," the four most
dangerous words in investing. Yet, the slowly evolving shift toward capital income already under

way is an early warning sign of bigger things to come as these trends are turbo-charged to warp
speed while the economy passes through the Singularity. Seen this way, a super-cycle in profits,
margins and stock values seems logical.
A revamping of the social safety net to address the conditions implied by Superabundance
is already a hot topic in Silicon Valley. Various proposals for a universal basic income (UBI)
are being bandied about. Typically, UBI refers to the government giving everyone an income

sufficient to meet some living standard. This automatically implies a big role for government in
the new economy. Given the fourth-turning breakdown in the political process and governance,
alternatives that avoid the government sector might also be considered. For example, another
implication of the Singularity is an accelerating accumulation of wealth fueling a growing supply
of altruistic and philanthropic potential that arguably could be administered more efficiently by

the private sector than the government where widespread allegations of corrupt administration
at all levels have proliferated since the pandemic. Given the growing wealth pie and the diversity
of social priorities among its owners addressing more social needs through philanthropy is a
likely option for the superabundant economy. In any event, the relative roles of government and
the private sector are necessarily an issue to be hashed out in this revolutionary time.

More glimmers of the UBI-like movements have popped up recently. As mentioned, Norway's
SWF is an example of how a well-administered government has been preparing for this future.
In the U.S. government sponsored tax-advantaged savings accounts from birth have been
instituted with private donations being added to the program. Governments, including the U.S.,
have increasingly been buying stakes in private investments for various purposes with the result

that the focus solely on sovereign debt can be a misleading indicator of fiscal fragility.
Japan is a significant example of the difference between gross government debt and net
government debt after subtracting government owned assets. Its gross debt is around 279% of
its gross domestic product (GDP) which is much higher than any other major economy. However,
Japan government assets total around 192% of GDP , including domestic and foreign Equities,

bonds, and loans. As a result, its net debt is less than 100% of GDP and more in line with other
major economies. As one of the most aged societies in the world, Japan points the way toward
how societies can cope with longevity. Government ownership of a broad array of higher yielding
global assets funded with low sovereign debt interest rates appears to be a path the U.S.
Treasury is also starting to pursue in managing its debt burden.
The main risks to the uptopian promise of Superabundance are the dystopian possibilities

that would follow from poor social decision-making. Around the world, different governments
will follow different approaches to navigating the unprecedented challenges posed by the
Singularity. As the U.S. celebrates its 250-year anniversary, it is in the midst of its fourth "fourth
turning." These are the intense political upheaval periods that demographers and historians have
documented in every fourth generation. The Revolutionary War, the Civil War, and the Great

Depression and World War II mark the first three "fourth turnings." The Singularity is a major
marker for the current fourth turning.
The relative success of the U.S. in transitioning through the previous major turning points in
history provides hope for a utopian rather than a dystopian outcome. Other countries have not
transited these challenges so well for such an extended period which helps explain how the
U.S. has become the most prosperous country on earth. Nevertheless, past performance is no

guarantee of future success. As always, each generation faces new challenges to overcome, or not.
For investors, the Singularity seems to be behind an unusually strong earnings cycle that could
potentially last much longer than past history would suggest. That's positive for Equities and
risk assets in general. The extra risks associated with this rapid transformation argue for well
diversified holdings as creative destruction on steroids seems a plausible outcome in a world of

warp speed change.

### Page 4

4 of 8 September 14, 2026 – Capital Market Outlook RETURN TO FIRST PAGE
MARKET VIEW
Elevated Debt Supply Is Testing the Market's Appetite
Chief Investment Office, Fixed Income Strategy Team
For much of the past two decades, rising debt levels appeared to carry few
consequences. Federal deficits expanded and corporate borrowing increased, yet
Treasury yields generally trended lower and credit spreads stayed remarkably tame.
Today, the backdrop may be changing.

Federal borrowing needs continue to grow as deficit spending remains elevated. Net
interest expense has surpassed $1 trillion annually and now rivals total U.S. defense
spending. On this front there appears no end in sight as the Congressional Budget
Office projects that the fiscal 2026 shortfall will widen to roughly $2.1 trillion. Investors
are increasingly focused on not only the level of debt outstanding, but also the pace at
which new debt is being issued—with some questioning about the sustainability of this

situation over the longer term.
This phenomenon is not limited to Treasurys, as the issuance glut extends to corporate
debt. Investment-grade (IG) corporate issuance is running roughly 40% above last year
and is on pace for a record year. 1 While demand for Fixed Income remains healthy, the
sheer volume of new debt being brought to market is beginning to test investor capacity,
particularly at the long end of the Treasury curve and within certain sectors.

Exhibit 1: Low Yields Post-2008/2009 GFC* Have Fueled a Borrowing Binge.
0
15
30
45
60
1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
Municipal MBS
Corporate Treasury
U.S. Debt Outstanding by Market
($ trillions)
*Global Financial Crisis. **Mortgage-backed Securities. Corporate debt includes U.S. domestic financial and nonfinancial
issues and excludes foreign issuers. Excludes interfund transfers. Source: Federal Reserve Board. Data as of year-end
through 2026; 2026 reflects the first quarter.

Hyperscalers Are Competing for Long-Duration Capital. A significant driver of
the surge in corporate issuance has been the hyperscalers. The largest technology
companies are financing an unprecedented wave of AI-related capital spending, leading
to nearly $280 billion of debt issuance year-to-date. 2 Many of these issuers carry high
credit ratings and have ramped up issuance of longer-maturity bonds. As a result, they
are increasingly competing with long-dated Treasurys for the same pool of institutional

capital, including insurance companies, pension funds, sovereign wealth funds and
duration-oriented Fixed Income investors—creating a crowding-out effect amongst high-
quality Fixed Income.
Fortunately, this is a case of pressure, not a credit crisis. Recent weakness in long-dated
Treasurys reflects a classic supply-and-demand imbalance and importantly is not a
solvency crisis for the U.S. government or high-quality hyperscalers. Investors are being

asked to absorb a growing volume of net new issuance from both the U.S. Treasury and
corporate America at the same time.
Debt Pressure and a Normalization, Not a Fiscal Reckoning. The rise in long-end
yields during August reflects this dynamic. The 30-year Treasury yield moved above
5.3%, reaching levels not seen since 2007. Fiscal concerns likely played a role, but we
1 Source: Bloomberg as of September 8, 2026.
2 Source: Bloomberg as of September 9, 2026.

Investment Implications
The recent rise in Treasury yields
reflects a collision of fiscal concerns,
resilient growth, persistent inflation,
and record debt issuance from both
the Treasury and corporate borrowers.
While this has created periodic bouts
of market pressures, we view recent
move as a normalization process, not a
crisis of confidence. Attractive real and
nominal yields reinforce our view that
investors should look beyond cash and
short-duration assets and move closer

to strategic duration target.

### Page 5

5 of 8 September 14, 2026 – Capital Market Outlook RETURN TO FIRST PAGE
believe heavy supply, sticky inflation, reduced Fed demand and increased competition for
investor capital were equally important contributors.
And importantly, the market's adjustment mechanism is already working. Higher Treasury
yields and somewhat wider credit spreads are attracting buyers and helping clear the growing
supply of bonds. This is a natural normalization and is how markets restore equilibrium.

Recent Treasury auctions continue to attract demand consistent with historical norms, and
investor appetite for new IG issuance has remained robust. These are not characteristics
typically associated with a loss of confidence in U.S., or corporate, creditworthiness.
A New Yield Regime. For Fixed Income investors, the more important implication
is that a 4% to 5% 10-year Treasury yield may represent the new normal. In an
environment of very strong underlying economic growth and unprecedented volumes of

debt issuance from both the public and private sectors, higher yields may be required to
attract sufficient capital amid a more competitive landscape for yield.
We continue to view both nominal and real yields as attractive and believe investors
should remain focused on achieving strategic duration targets. While rate volatility may
persist, today's yield levels provide a potential opportunity to seek attractive income that
has been largely absent for much of the past decade.

The Bigger Picture: Growth Still Matters More Than Debt Levels. None of this dismisses
the long-term fiscal challenges facing the U.S. Debt levels are rising, interest costs
continue to grow, and mandatory spending increasingly consumes a larger share of the
federal budget. However, history shows that debt levels alone do not determine interest
rates. Between 2007 and 2020, U.S. debt rose dramatically even as the 10-year Treasury
yield fell from roughly 5% to below 1%. What ultimately matters is the interplay between

short-term interest rates, debt levels, economic growth, inflation and investor demand.
For instance, nominal GDP growth and the 10-year yield tend to be correlated, outside
of recessions—we believe recent rate increases partly reflect this strong macro
backdrop. Moreover, economic growth is running above long-end yields, supporting the
sustainability of rising government debt.
Exhibit 2: Higher Nominal GDP Growth Supports a Higher-Yield Regime.
6.6

4.8
-8%
-4%
0%
4%
8%
12%
16%
20%
1995 2005 2015 2025
Recession
Nominal GDP Growth* (Q2 26 = 6.6)
10-Year Treasury Bond Yield (Sep 26 = 4.84)
*Yearly percent change.  Sources: Federal Reserve Bank of St. Louis, FRED®; U.S. Bureau of Economic Analysis; Federal
Reserve Board; National Bureau of Economic Research. Data as of September 9, 2026.
The U.S. continues to benefit from several structural advantages: the dollar remains
the world's reserve currency, Treasurys remain the foundation of the global financial

system, and U.S. capital markets are still the deepest and most liquid in the world. Those
advantages continue to support demand for U.S. assets and underpin sovereign credit
quality even as borrowing needs grow.
The bottom line, in our view, is that even though the recent rise in long-end yields catches
many headlines, there is no need to panic. Instead, the recent repricing reflects periodic
episodes of debt pressure rather than a fundamental loss of confidence in U.S. credit. With

borrowing demand from both Washington and corporate America likely to remain elevated,
bond prices may continue to serve as the market's release valve. The consequence is likely
a world of structurally higher long-term yields, not a sovereign debt crisis.

### Page 6

6 of 8 September 14, 2026 – Capital Market Outlook RETURN TO FIRST PAGE
THE TICKER TAPE
What are the markets actually telling us?
Christopher Hyzy, Chief Investment Officer
When the markets speak loudly we should listen. There are often clues in the internal trends
within the markets that help us determine how far into an economic cycle we are or what drivers
of growth are most impactful. In addition, we can also find clues that help with determining

the micro picture. In other words, what industries are the most likely to benefit, from a
profitability standpoint is concerned, as the growth picture unfolds? Currently, the markets have
a megaphone, in our view. The year-to-date sharp outperformers have been consistent and
should continue to advance. These include commodities, including copper and oil, Emerging
Markets, Japan in the Developed Markets, Small-cap relative to Large-cap shares, Value versus

Growth, and more cyclically-oriented companies versus more defensive. This current consistent
outperformance informs us that we are still early- to mid-cycle in a supply-led expansion. We are
still early in the build out of the supply that is needed for the natural demand that is there. New
infrastructure is needed to handle the new economy that is progressing and quickly innovating.
This infrastructure needs commodities, all forms of energy, battery storage, minerals, metals,

recycled water, gases, chemicals, and all the compute and cloud capacity, including memory
and other components to handle the path toward mass tokenization. Moreover, the buildup of
government debt in the advanced economies as fiscal deficits widen is forcing large institutional
investors (including central banks and other government entities) to diversify their reserve
bases. This has increased the interest in gold holdings. Countries that have a vast amount of

natural resources, especially oil and gas, are in high demand by investors, which is obvious when
examining year-to-date outperformers. The bottom line is that the markets are telling us that we
are still early- to mid-cycle in this massive buildout, which will require a wide collection of hard
assets, Infrastructure (old and new), land, and within Equities, a more diversified approach to
exposure—particularly areas that are more cyclical- and Value-oriented. We expect this view to

extend itself well into the foreseeable future if not years.
In Fixed Income, it may seem more complex, but it is actually easier to understand what the
markets are telling us, in our opinion. The backup in yields is “real yield” driven, which is more due
to higher nominal growth than to cconcerns of long-run inflation. This is evident in the Treasury
inflation protection market, break-evens in general and the ratio of Treasury yields relative to

other Government bond markets in the developed world. However, rising oil and gas prices and
inflation gauges that are still above the preferred level are usually the excuses for yields backing
up. Deficit concerns are a more plausible reason for yields rising but the main driver, in our view,
is still above average nominal growth. The yield curve and rates in general are still adjusting to
this new economic landscape that is very different than those of the most recent past.

Exhibit 3: The Market’s Megaphone: Leadership Continues to Signal Early-to-Mid Cycle Expansion.
A) Rotational Patterns in 2026 Remain Strong B) Global Performance Gives Clues to Internal Trends.
0 5 10 15 20 25
Minimum Volatility
Growth
Quality
Equal Weighted
Large Cap
Mid Cap
High Dividend
Value
Small Cap
Momentum
2025 Year-to-Date (%)*
2026 Year-to-Date (%)
0 10 20 30 40
MSCI World ex-U.S.
S&P 500
MSCI All Country World
MSCI Pacific ex. Japan
MSCI Japan

MSCI Emerging Markets
Commodities
2026 Year-to-Date (%)
Exhibit 3A): Total returns referenced. Large-cap, Mid-cap, and Small-cap are represented by Russell Indexes. Equal Weighted, Value, Growth, Quality, High Dividend, Minimum Volatility and
Momentum are represented by MSCI USA Indexes. *2025 Year-to-Date represents returns between January 1, 2025 through September 11, 2025. Source: Bloomberg. Data as of September
11, 2026. Exhibit 3B): Source: Bloomberg. Data as of September 11, 2026. Past performance is no guarantee of future results. Indexes are unmanaged and do not take into account fees or

expenses. It is not possible to invest directly in an index. Please refer to index definitions at the end of this report.
Investment Implications
Market leadership in commodities,
cyclicals, Value stocks, and real
assets suggests the economy
remains in the early-to-mid stages
of a supply-driven expansion, while
higher yields reflect strong nominal
growth rather than recession
concerns.

### Page 7

7 of 8 September 14, 2026 – Capital Market Outlook RETURN TO FIRST PAGE
MARKETS IN REVIEW
Equities
Equities
Total Return in USD (%)
Current WTD MTD YTD
DJIA  52,573.29 -1.6 -1.0 10.6
NASDAQ  26,333.04 -0.6 -0.1 13.8
S&P 500  7,656.98 -0.8 -0.3 12.8
S&P 400 Mid Cap  3,714.14 -1.8 -1.2 13.4
Russell 2000  2,903.94 -2.4 -1.7 18.0
MSCI World  4,937.32 -1.0 -0.6 12.5
MSCI EAFE  3,194.03 -1.4 -1.1 12.5
MSCI Emerging Markets  1,721.53 -0.2 0.2 24.3
Fixed Income†
Fixed Income
Total Return in USD (%)
Current WTD MTD YTD
Corporate & Government 5.17 -0.93 -1.04 -1.49
Agencies 4.91 -0.68 -0.72 -0.28
Municipals 4.28 -1.23 -1.75 -1.55
U.S. Investment-Grade Credit 5.27 -1.04 -1.13 -1.43
International 5.74 -0.93 -1.12 -1.52
High Yield 7.62 -0.54 -0.66 2.01
90 Day Yield 4.00 3.84 3.83 3.63
2 Year Yield 4.63 4.37 4.34 3.47
10 Year Yield 4.97 4.78 4.75 4.17
30 Year Yield 5.35 5.24 5.24 4.84
Commodities & Currencies
Commodities
Total Return in USD (%)
Current WTD MTD YTD
Bloomberg Commodity 375.18 1.7 2.8 35.8
WTI Crude $/Barrel†† 100.05 9.4 16.7 74.2
Gold Spot $/Ounce†† 4349.08 -1.8 -2.0 0.7
Currencies
Total Return in USD (%)
Current
Prior 
Week End
Prior 
Month End
2025 
Year End
EUR/USD 1.16 1.16 1.16 1.17
USD/JPY 153.61 156.26 159.74 156.71
USD/CNH 6.71 6.71 6.72 6.98
S&P Sector Returns
-3.5%
-2.7%
-1.6%
-1.6%
-1.5%
-1.2%
-1.0%
-0.6%
-0.2%
1.1%
2.1%
-4% -3% -2% -1% 0% 1% 2% 3%
Healthcare
Materials
Industrials
Utilities
Financials
Consumer Discretionary
Real Estate
Consumer Staples
Information Technology
Communication Services
Energy
Sources: Bloomberg, Factset. Total Returns from the period of 
09/08/2026 to 09/11/2026. †Bloomberg Barclays Indices. ††Spot 
price returns. All data as of the 09/11/2026 close. Data would differ 
if a different time period was displayed. Short-term performance 
shown to illustrate more recent trend. Past performance is no 
guarantee of future results. 
Economic Forecasts (as of 9/11/2026)
Economic Forecasts Q1 2026A Q2 2026A Q3 2026E Q4 2026E 2026E 2027E
Real global GDP (% y/y annualized) - - - - 3.3 3.4
Real U.S. GDP (% q/q annualized) 2.1 1.5 2.4 2.3 2.1 2.2
CPI inflation (% y/y) 2.7 3.8 3.4 3.5 3.3 2.5
Core CPI inflation (% y/y) 2.5 2.7 2.4 2.5 2.5 2.5
Unemployment rate (%) 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.2 4.2 4.1
Fed funds rate, end period (%) 3.63 3.63 3.88 4.38 4.38 4.38
The forecasts in the table above are the base line view from BofA Global Research. The Global Wealth & Investment 
Management (GWIM) Investment Strategy Committee (ISC) may make adjustments to this view over the course of 
the year and can express upside/downside to these forecasts. Historical data is sourced from Bloomberg, FactSet, and 
Haver Analytics. There can be no assurance that the forecasts will be achieved. Economic or financial forecasts 
are inherently limited and should not be relied on as indicators of future investment performance. 
A = Actual. E/* = Estimate. Data as of September 11, 2026.
Sources: BofA Global Research; GWIM ISC as of September 11, 2026. 
Asset Class Weightings (as of 9/1/2026)
Asset Class
CIO View  
Underweight Neutral Overweight
Global Equities
U.S. Large-cap Growth
U.S. Large-cap Value
U.S. Small-cap Growth
U.S. Small-cap Value
International Developed
Emerging Markets
Global Fixed Income
U.S. Governments
U.S. Mortgages
U.S. Corporates
International Fixed 
Income
High Yield
U.S. Investment-grade  
Tax Exempt
U.S. High Yield Tax 
Exempt
Alternative Investments*
Hedge Strategies 
Private Equity  
Private Credit  
Real Assets 
Cash

* Many products that pursue Alternative Investment strategies, specifically Private Equity and Hedge Funds, are 
available only to qualified investors. CIO asset class views are relative to the CIO Strategic Asset Allocation (SAA) 
of a multi-asset portfolio. Source: Chief Investment Office as of September 1, 2026. All sector and asset allocation 
recommendations must be considered in the context of an individual investor’s goals, time horizon, liquidity needs and 
risk tolerance. Not all recommendations will be in the best interest of all investors.
CIO Equity Sector Views
Sector
CIO View  
Underweight Neutral Overweight
Industrials
Financials
Healthcare
Consumer 
Discretionary
Information 
Technology
Energy
Materials
Utilities
Communication 
Services
Real Estate
Consumer 
Staples

### Page 8

8 of 8 September 14, 2026 – Capital Market Outlook RETURN TO FIRST PAGE
Index Definitions
Securities indexes assume reinvestment of all distributions and interest payments. Indexes are unmanaged and do not take into account fees or expenses. It is not possible to
invest directly in an index. Indexes are all based in U.S. dollars.
S&P 500 Index is a stock market index tracking the stock performance of 500 leading companies listed on stock exchanges in the United States.

Bloomberg Commodity Index designed to provide liquid and diversified exposure to commodities via futures contracts. Is calculated on an excess return basis and reflects commodity
futures price movements.
MSCI Emerging Markets Index captures large and mid cap representation across 24 Emerging Markets countries. With 1,205 constituents, the index covers approximately 85% of the free
float adjusted market capitalization in each country.
MSCI Japan Index is designed to measure the performance of the large and mid cap segments of the Japanese market.

MSCI Pacific ex Japan Index captures large and mid cap representation across 4 of 5 Developed Markets (DM) countries in the Pacific region (excluding Japan). With 93 constituents, the index
covers approximately 85% of the free float-adjusted market capitalization in each country.
MSCI All-Country World Index is a premier benchmark representing global equity performance, covering large and mid-cap stocks across 23 developed and 24 emerging markets.

MSCI World Index ex U.S. captures large and mid cap representation across 22 of 23 Developed Markets countries--excluding the United States..
MSCI USA Momentum Index is based on MSCI USA Index, its parent index, which captures large and mid-cap stocks of the U.S. market. It is designed to reflect the performance of an equity
momentum strategy by emphasizing stocks with high price momentum, while maintaining reasonably high trading liquidity, investment capacity and moderate index turnover.

U.S. Large-cap Growth/Russell 1000 Growth Index measures the performance of the large-cap growth segment of the U.S. equity universe. It includes those Russell 1000 companies with
relatively higher price-to-book ratios, higher I/B/E/S forecast medium term (2 year) growth and higher sales per share historical growth (5 years).
U.S. Small-cap/Russell 2000 Index measures the performance of the small-cap segment of the U.S. Equity universe.
MSCI USA High Dividend Yield Index is designed to reflect the performance of equities in the MSCI USA Index (excluding REIT s) with higher dividend income and quality characteristics than

average dividend yields that are both sustainable and persistent.
U.S. Mid Cap/Russell Midcap Index measures the performance of the mid-cap segment of the U.S. Equity universe. The Russell Midcap Index is a subset of the Russell 1000® Index. It
includes approximately 800 of the smallest securities based on a combination of their market cap and current index membership.
MSCI USA Value Index captures large and mid-cap U.S. securities exhibiting overall value style characteristics.

MSCI USA Equal Weighted Index represents an alternative weighting scheme to its market cap weighted parent index, the MSCI USA Index. At each quarterly rebalance date, all index
constituents are weighted equally, effectively removing the influence of each constituent’s current price.
MSCI USA Minimum Volatility Index aims to reflect the performance characteristics of a minimum variance strategy applied to the large and mid-cap USA equity universe.

Investing involves risk, including the possible loss of principal. Past performance is no guarantee of future results.
Bank of America, Merrill, their affiliates and advisors do not provide legal, tax or accounting advice. Clients should consult their legal and/or tax advisors before making any financial decisions.
This material does not take into account a client’s particular investment objectives, financial situations, or needs and is not intended as a recommendation, offer, or solicitation for the purchase

or sale of any security or investment strategy. Merrill offers a broad range of brokerage, investment advisory and other services. There are important differences between brokerage and
investment advisory services, including the type of advice and assistance provided, the fees charged, and the rights and obligations of the parties. It is important to understand the differences,
particularly when determining which service or services to select. For more information about these services and their differences, speak with your Merrill financial advisor.

of America, Merrill or any affiliate to sell or provide, or a specific invitation for a consumer to apply for, any particular retail financial product or service that may be available.
The Chief Investment Office (“CIO”) provides thought leadership on wealth management, investment strategy and global markets; portfolio management solutions; due diligence; and solutions
oversight and data analytics. CIO viewpoints are developed for Bank of America Private Bank, a division of Bank of America, N.A., (“Bank of America”) and Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith

The Global Wealth & Investment Management Investment Strategy Committee (“GWIM ISC”) is responsible for developing and coordinating recommendations for short-term and long-term
investment strategy and market views encompassing markets, economic indicators, asset classes and other market-related projections affecting GWIM.
BofA Global Research is research produced by BofA Securities, Inc. (“BofAS”) and/or one or more of its affiliates. BofAS is a registered broker-dealer, Member SIPC and wholly owned subsidiary

of Bank of America Corporation.
All recommendations must be considered in the context of an individual investor’s goals, time horizon, liquidity needs and risk tolerance. Not all recommendations will be in the best interest
of all investors.
Asset allocation, diversification and rebalancing do not ensure a profit or protect against loss in declining markets.
Investments have varying degrees of risk. Some of the risks involved with equity securities include the possibility that the value of the stocks may fluctuate in response to events specific to

the companies or markets, as well as economic, political or social events in the U.S. or abroad. Small cap and mid cap companies pose special risks, including possible illiquidity and greater price
volatility than funds consisting of larger, more established companies. Investing in fixed-income securities may involve certain risks, including the credit quality of individual issuers, possible
prepayments, market or economic developments and yields and share price fluctuations due to changes in interest rates. When interest rates go up, bond prices typically drop, and vice versa.

Investments in high-yield bonds (sometimes referred to as “junk bonds”) offer the potential for high current income and attractive total return, but involves certain risks. Changes in economic
conditions or other circumstances may adversely affect a junk bond issuer’s ability to make principal and interest payments. Income from investing in municipal bonds is generally exempt
from Federal and state taxes for residents of the issuing state. While the interest income is tax-exempt, any capital gains distributed are taxable to the investor. Income for some investors

may be subject to the Federal Alternative Minimum Tax (AMT). Treasury bills are less volatile than longer-term fixed income securities and are guaranteed as to timely payment of principal and
interest by the U.S. government. Bonds are subject to interest rate, inflation and credit risks. Investments in foreign securities (including ADRs) involve special risks, including foreign currency
risk and the possibility of substantial volatility due to adverse political, economic or other developments. These risks are magnified for investments made in emerging markets. Investments in

a certain industry or sector may pose additional risk due to lack of diversification and sector concentration. There are special risks associated with an investment in commodities, such as gold,
including market price fluctuations, regulatory changes, interest rate changes, credit risk, economic changes and the impact of adverse political or financial factors.
Alternative investments are speculative and involve a high degree of risk.
Alternative investments are intended for qualified investors only. Alternative Investments such as derivatives, hedge funds, private credit, private equity funds, and funds of funds can result

in higher return potential but also higher loss potential. Changes in economic conditions or other circumstances may adversely affect your investments. Before you invest in alternative
investments, you should consider your overall financial situation, how much money you have to invest, your need for liquidity, and your tolerance for risk.
Nonfinancial assets, such as closely held businesses, real estate, fine art, oil, gas and mineral properties, and timber, farm and ranch land, are complex in nature and involve risks including total

---
## Document 222: Fed builds credibility with hike; one more likely in Dec

Source PDF: all report pdf/Fed builds credibility with hike; one more likely in Dec.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Fed builds credibility with 
hike; one more likely in Dec 
Summary 
Event: The US Federal Reserve hiked its key interest rate by 
25bps to 3.75-4.0%, in a unanimous decision. This marks the 
first hike since 2023, reversing the easing cycle that had 
taken rates down from 4.25% in September 2025 to a trough 
of 3.75% by December 2025. The revised projections 
indicate the Fed expects to raise rates by an additional 25bps 
this year, hold rates in 2027, and cut 25bps in both 2028 and 
2029. It upgraded the long-run rate slightly to 3.2%.  
Market reaction: The US yield curve mildly flattened , while 
the S&P500 index fell 0.5%. The policy rate sensitive US 2 -
year government bond yield jumped 7 bps to 4. 74% as 
markets factored in  three more 25bps hikes by June 2027 . 
The US 10-year yield rose 2bps to 5.02%, its highest since 
2007, while the 30-year yield was little changed. The USD 
index (DXY) rose 0.6%, breaking past its 50- and 100-DMAs. 
Investment strategy: Today’s move realises what we had 
been flagging in recent weeks i.e. the rising risk of a Fed rate 
hike following Fed Chair Warsh’s Jackson Hole speech and 
recent economic data prints, namely: a pick-up in job creation 
and inflation over the summer and a sharp rebound in oil 
prices due to the re-escalation of the Middle East conflict.  
This hike helps the Fed rebuild credibility as an inflation 
fighter. Given the unanimous decision to hike rates this week, 
we believe there will likely be one more hike before the end 
of this year, and one more in H1 2027 as we expect robust 
growth amid strong AI investments and a tight labour market, 
keeping inflation elevated.  That scenario would still be less 
than the three more rate hikes money markets are pricing 
after the latest Fed move. We believe policy rates can return 
to the 4.0 –4.25% range by end-2027, with the possibility of 
cuts in H2 2027  as the impact of tariffs and high oil prices 
start to fade towards the second half of 2027.   
Today’s refreshed Fed policy rate path is mildly bullish for the 
USD index; so we revise up our 3 -month target to 100. We 
also revise up our 3-month 10-year yield target to 5.0-5.25%.  
 The USD rose, while stocks fell after the Fed hiked rates 
and signalled one more rate hike this year; ultra-long 
bonds rose slightly as the Fed rebuild its inflation-
fighting credentials 
Asset performance: 15-Sep close to 16-Sep close

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

The Fed slightly revised up its growth projections for 
2026-27 and inflation projection for 2026; however, it 
still sees inflation cooling over the next two years  
Fed’s updated economic projections

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

-4.0 -3.0 -2.0 -1.0 0.0 1.0
WTI crude oil (58.8)
CHF/USD (-4.8)
JPY/USD (-6.3)
EUR/USD (-3.4)
Gold (15.5)
S&P 500 (14.3)
US 10-year bond (-6.6)
US 2-year bond (-2.0)
Nasdaq 100 (19.2)
US Ultra long bond (-10.8)
Euro Stoxx 50 (16.6)
USD (3.7)
*12m returns 
in bracket (%)       Price return (%)
1-day
performance
Dates Old New Old New Old New Old New
2026 2.2 2.3 4.3 4.1 3.3 3.4 3.8 4.1
2027 2.3 2.4 4.3 4.1 2.5 2.5 3.6 4.1
2028 2.2 2.2 4.2 4.1 2.1 2.2 3.4 3.9
LR* 2.0 2.0 4.2 4.2 3.1 3.3
GDP
Unemploy
ment Core PCE
Rates 
estimates

### Page 2

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 17 September 2026

Backdrop to the rate hike 
In hiking rates, Fed Chair Warsh reaffirmed the inflation 
threat to the US economy. US headline inflation accelerated 
to 0.4% m/m in August and stayed elevated on an annualised 
basis at 3.4% y/y. Energy prices , driven by the Middle East 
conflict, were a primary contributor. Oil prices have extended 
gains since the August inflation report, surging past USD 
100/bbl. Meanwhile, core inflation rose 0.3% m/m in August, 
beating estimates for a 0.2% rise . Also, US producer prices 
jumped 0.4% m/m in August, the most since May, and 5.4%  
y/y, further reinforcing the inflationary backdrop. 
The inflation report follow ed a stronger -than-expected jobs 
report for August. US monthly job creation has surged to an 
average 80,000 this year, from 10,000, tightening a job 
market that already faces a supply crunch from the Trump 
administration’s clampdown against immigration.  The 
combination of an acceleration in job creation and inflation 
over the summer, combined with a rebound in oil prices, 
supported our expectation for a Fed rate hike this week.  
Removing “a dose of accommodation” 
Warsh framed the decision to hike as removing "a dose of 
accommodation", rather than the start of an aggressive rate 
hiking cycle, and we agree with that characterisation. The aim 
is to bring financial and credit conditions more in line with the 
Fed's price stability objectives. To quote Warsh: “Our 
predominant focus is on the price stability side of our 
mandate. The plain fact is that inflation is too high, and has 
been for too long….This  summer’s inflation readings do not 
tell me that underlying trends have meaningfully improved.” 
He added that many categories in the last consumer and 
producer inflation reports are still showing price increases 
above 3% on a six- and 12-month basis.  
The unanimous vote to hike rates, contrasts with a 9 -3 split 
vote in July to hold rates. When combined with the pencilling 
in of one more hike by December, this suggests a majority of 
Fed policymakers have turned more hawkish over the 
summer. In doing so, they have helped rebuild the Fed’s 
inflation-fighting credentials and its independence against 
President Trump’s pressures to cut rates. This explains why 
long-end bond yields were stable after this week’s hike. 
Nevertheless, Warsh provided little guidance on the future 
rate path, as he held what was reportedly the shortest post -
meeting press conference on record for a Fed chair . This is 
consistent with his stated preference for less central bank 
communication. We expect more clarity once the Fed task 
forces submit their reports by year end. 
— Jonathan Liang, CIO for Fixed Income and FX   
Rajat Bhattacharya, Senior Investment Strategist 
 US job creation has accelerated this year after a slump 
last year, tightening a job market already facing a 
potential crunch from an immigration clampdown  
US quarterly non-farm payrolls growth

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered: *Q3 2026 reflects 
average payrolls for July and August

US inflation remains well above the Fed’s 2% target, 
with supercore inflation showing signs of picking up 
pace in August 
US consumer inflation trend

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

-100
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3*
2024 2025 2026
'000s
US nonfarm payrolls
3.4
2.4
3.0
2.0
0
2
4
6
8
10
Aug-20 Aug-22 Aug-24 Aug-26
%
Headline inflation Core inflation
Supercore inflation

### Page 3

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 17 September 2026

3

### Page 4

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 17 September 2026

4

### Page 5

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 17 September 2026

5

### Page 6

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 17 September 2026

6

### Page 7

Standard Chartered Bank 
WS Global CIO Office | 17 September 2026

7

---
## Document 234: Global Expansion of Chinese Construction Machinery_ Lessons from Brazil (2026-09-14)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Global Expansion of Chinese Construction Machinery_ Lessons from Brazil (2026-09-14).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 9
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Deutsche Bank 
Research Institute

Global Expansion of Chinese 
Construction Machinery:  
Lessons from Brazil

1 
Authors 
Deyun Ou 
Economist

Yi Xiong, Ph.D. 
Chief Economist

September 14, 2026 
Executive Summary 
China’s exports have been strong this year, surging by 19% YoY in the first 
eight months. Among these exports, heavy-asset capital goods have played a 
particularly important role. Using construction machinery as a representative 
example, we illustrate how stronger product competitiveness, Chinese overseas 
projects, and Chinese manufacturers’ “going-global” strategies have enabled 
market share gains across a broad range of economies. 
Chinese construction machinery has expanded across the globe since 2020. 
Exports of related products quadrupled between 2020 and 2025 and have 
remained on a strong upward trend this year. More importantly, Chinese 
products have achieved significant market-share gains across a broad range of 
economies and accounted for 26% of global imports in 2025 compared to 10% in 
2019. In this report, we aim to explore the factors behind this. 
We use Chinese excavator exports to Brazil as a case study. Excavators are 
one of the most representative categories of construction machinery, while Brazil 
is South America’s largest excavator importer and ranks among the world’s top 
20. Chinese excavators have also made remarkable market-share gains in Brazil, 
with their share rising from 20% to 90% in six years. Brazil therefore offers a 
compelling case study on this topic. 
Through the case study and our analysis of aggregate data, we identify three 
drivers of the global expansion of Chinese construction machinery: 
— Product competitiveness: Chinese brands have steadily improved both 
price advantage and product quality. 
— Demand from Chinese overseas projects: Chinese contractors are 
undertaking more infrastructure projects and naturally exhibit stronger 
preferences for Chinese equipment. 
— “Going global” strategy by Chinese companies: Higher profitability has 
encouraged them to direct more resources towards overseas expansion.

### Page 2

14 September 2026 
China Macro

Deutsche Bank AG/Hong Kong Page 2

Introduction 
China’s exports have been strong this year, surging by 19% YoY in the first eight 
months. In a note published for clients in March, we identified several drivers of 
this export growth, including AI-related demand, energy-cost advantages and the 
green transition. In particular, heavy-asset capital goods have been an important 
contributor, with construction machinery offering a representative example. 
Chinese construction machinery has expanded rapidly across the globe since 
2020. Using HS8429 products —including excavators, bulldozers, graders and 
related equipment —as a proxy, export values quadrupled between 2020 and 
2025 (Figure 1). More importantly, the expansion has been broad -based: 128 of 
the 140 economies reporting HS8429 imports recorded an increase in China’s 
market share over the period (Figure 2). Chinese products now account for more 
than half of HS8429 imports in over 30 economies. As a result, China’s share of 
global HS8429 imports has risen from 10% in 2019 to 26% in 2025. 
Looking at  aggregate trade data alone  does not fully reveal the multiple 
underlying drivers. At the country level, economic structures, investment cycles 
and infrastructure demand vary substantially, leading to very different import 
patterns and market-share dynamics. At the product level, HS8429 encompasses 
a diverse range of machinery categories with different technologies, end-markets 
and competitive landscapes.  
Therefore, we adopt a case -study approach and focus on Chinese excavator 
exports to Brazil. We believe this is particularly representative since:  
• Excavators are highly representative of the construction machinery 
industry, accounting for half of China’s HS8429 exports. 
• Brazil is the largest excavator importer in South America and ranks 
among the top twenty importers globally. The demand is underpinned by 
three factors. 1) As a major mining economy, Brazil requires substantial 
earthmoving equipment. 2) Brazil is one of the world's largest agricultural 
producers. The farming sector relies heavily on capital investment and 
machinery to raise productivity. 3) The government has renewed its focus 
on infrastructure development in recent years.  
• Chinese excavator manufacturers have achieved exceptional market -
share gains  in Brazil. Their  share increased from 20% to 90% over the 
past six years  (Figure 4), with gains observed across all excavator 
segments.

### Page 3

14 September 2026 
China Macro

Deutsche Bank AG/Hong Kong Page 3

Figure 1: China’s construction machinery exports have 
expanded rapidly since 2020

Figure 2: The expansion of China’s construction 
machinery exports has been remarkably broad-based

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, CEIC. We use HS8429 products—including 
excavators, bulldozers, graders and related equipment—as a proxy.

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, UN Comtrade. Each dot represents an economy.

Figure 3: Brazil has been a major excavator importer

Figure 4: Chinese excavators have recorded remarkable 
market-share gains in Brazil

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, UN Comtrade. Excavators are primarily classified 
under HS842952.

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom

Expansion of Chinese Excavators in Brazil  
Chinese excavators have become increasingly visible across Brazil . Their 
presence is no longer confined to mines, railways, and other construction sites. 
They are increasingly involved in landmark projects such as Rio Olympic venues 
and World Cup stadiums, and can even be found in residential backyards and 
farms. Chinese brands reportedly occupied the top three positions in Brazil’s 
market in 2025, while six Chinese brands ranked among the top ten. Customs 
data paint a stronger picture: Chinese products now account for ~90% of Brazil’s 
excavator imports, both by value and volume. 
China’s expansion appears to have been supported mainly by Brazil’s incremental 
demand rather than the outright displacement of competing suppliers. During the 
market recovery from 2017 to 2021, excavator imports rose from all major 
sources. From 2022 to 2025, imports from China grew much faster, driving a 
rapid increase in China’s market share, while annual imports from other 
suppliers—including Euro pe, Japan and Korea —remained broadly stable at 
around USD 100mn in total  (Figure 5). This does not mean that other suppliers

### Page 4

14 September 2026 
China Macro

Deutsche Bank AG/Hong Kong Page 4

were unaffected by Chinese competition: without China’s sharp market -share 
gains, they would likely have captured a larger share of Brazil’s surge in excavator 
demand. 
Interestingly, the expansion has been different across segments  (Figure 6). 
Medium-sized excavators began gaining market share steadily after 2017, while 
mini excavators only entered a similar trajectory after 2019. Large excavators 
followed a different path. Prior to 2021, Chinese brands were absent, yet they 
rapidly gained traction after the first entry. The distinct patterns suggest that the 
rise of Chinese excavators might have been driven by multiple demand - and 
supply-side forces.

Figure 5: This expansion appears to have come largely 
from incremental demand rather than outright 
displacement

Figure 6: Expansion has been different across product 
segments

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom. Brazil’s 8-digit NCM customs 
classification distinguishes excavators by power categories, allowing us to group them 
into three segments.

Factor 1: Price Advantage Meets Quality Upgrading  
A widening price advantage has been a major driver behind the expansion of 
Chinese products in the medium-sized and mini excavator segments. Since these 
products are relatively less technologically demanding, pricing remains a major 
consideration for buyers.  We divide the sample into four periods and  compare 
China’s price advantage against market share gains (Figure 7). China’s advantage 
has steadily expanded, with products now more than 50% cheaper than peers. 
Meanwhile, the relationship between price advantage and market share is highly 
significant. For medium -sized excavators, a one percentage point increase in 
China’s price advantage is associated with a 0.4pt gain in market share. For mini 
excavators, the corresponding relationship is even higher at 0.9pt. 
Indeed, mini excavators provide the clearest example of price -driven expansion. 
These machines are used for small -scale construction projects or purchased by 
individual consumers, making demand particularly price -sensitive. Chinese 
products began to undercut competitors after 2017, and their price advantage 
widened significantly after 2020  (Figure 8). The gap has now reached USD 
17,000 per unit . We further decompose this price advantage  (Figure 9). 60% of 
the widening gap reflects price increases by overseas competitors amid higher 
inflation, while 40% reflects price cuts by Chinese manufacturers. RMB

### Page 5

14 September 2026 
China Macro

Deutsche Bank AG/Hong Kong Page 5

depreciation accounted for 10% of the gap during 2023-25. However, following 
its appreciation in 2026, the cumulative contribution has turned negative. 
More noteworthy is the advance of Chinese brands into the high -end segment. 
Large excavators are far more technologically sophisticated. Before 2021, 
Chinese brands were virtually absent from Brazil’s large excavators market. They 
entered the market in 2021 and expanded rapidly thereafter (Figure 10). So far in 
2026, 43 of Brazil’s 47 imported large excavators have come from China. Chinese 
manufacturers are reportedly delivering 100-tonne-class excavators to Brazilian 
mining customers and are actively promoting equipment in the 500-tonne 
category. Chinese companies ’ competitiveness is increasingly extending from 
price advantage toward technology intensity.

Figure 7: A widening price advantage has driven 
expansion in the medium-sized and mini excavator

Figure 8: Mini excavators provide the clearest example 
of price-driven expansion

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom. The four observations correspond to 
the periods 2006-2010, 2011-2015, 2016-2020, and 2021-2025, respectively.

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom

Figure 9: China’s price advantage has widened owing 
to overseas inflation, domestic price cuts and RMB 
depreciation

Figure 10: Chinese brands entered the large excavator 
market in 2021 and rapidly expanded thereafter

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom

Factor 2: Demand from Chinese Overseas Projects  
Chinese firms are undertaking more construction projects in Brazil, generating 
additional demand. They naturally have a stronger preference for Chinese-made 
machinery. The value of construction projects completed by Chinese companies 
has risen consistently since 2021. Growth in newly signed contracts has been

### Page 6

14 September 2026 
China Macro

Deutsche Bank AG/Hong Kong Page 6

even stronger, with their value reaching a record USD 4.6bn in 2024  (Figure 11). 
This trend may have contributed to the growth in excavator imports since 2024, 
especially for large excavators. 
The Salvador -Itaparica Bridge project provides a compelling example. Once 
completed, it will be the longest sea -crossing bridge in South America. The 
project was awarded to two Chinese SOEs in 2019, with an initial investment of 
USD 2.2bn, which was raised to USD 2.7bn in 2025. It is the largest infrastructure 
investment undertaken by Chinese companies in Brazil. Since construction began 
this year, ~800 tons of equipment from China have arrived at the port of Salvador 
since April, consistent with the surge in custom data (Figure 12). Most recently on 
July 1, the project company showcased the first batch of equipment deployed on 
site, all sourced from China.

Figure 11: Chinese firms are undertaking more 
construction projects in Brazil

Figure 12: Imports of Chinese machinery through the 
Port of Salvador have surged in recent months

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, China Mofcom

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Brazil Custom

Factor 3: Supply-Side Expansion Driven by Higher Profitability 
Chinese firms have strong incentives to expand overseas because foreign 
markets offer higher profitability. Some views have argued that low export prices 
primarily reflect dumping driven by weak domestic demand. If that were the case, 
corporate profits would be expected to remain flat or deteriorate as firms 
sacrificed margins to gain market share. Company -level evidence suggests the 
opposite. 
We examine five listed Chinese construction machinery manufacturers.  
Combined overseas revenue has risen consistently since 2020, doubling in 2022 
and doubling again by 2025, broadly mirroring the trajectory of China’s total 
construction machinery exports (Figure 13). More importantly, overseas 
profitability has improved substantially. Across the five companies, operating 
margins in overseas markets have increased by 5-15 percentage points, with the 
average rising from 20% during the previous decade to 30% today (Figure 14). In 
contrast, domestic margins have fallen by 5 percentage points.

### Page 7

14 September 2026 
China Macro

Deutsche Bank AG/Hong Kong Page 7

Figure 13: Overseas revenue has risen consistently 
since 2021

Figure 14: Overseas profit margins have exceeded 
domestic margins

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Wind

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, Wind

Beyond Excavators: Chinese Construction Machinery 
Expansion 
Through this case study, we identify three forces underpinning the expansion of 
Chinese excavators in Brazil: improving price and quality competitiveness, 
growing demand from Chinese overseas projects, and proactive going -global 
strategies by Chinese companies. 
We believe the forces extend to the broader construction machinery sector.   
• Price and Quality Competitiveness. The price advantage over HS8429 
has become more pronounced since 2022  (Figure 15). The analysis of 
eight-digit categories revealed a more comprehensive picture  (Figure 
16). First, exports increased across all categories, including those with 
rising prices. Second, the products recording larger price increases 
tended to have higher unit values. That said, the expansion is driven by 
price cuts as well as increasing demand for higher-value products.  
• Overseas Expansion of Chinese Enterprises . Chinese overseas 
construction project s have reaccelerated since 2024, with completed 
value and newly signed contracts rising by 20% and 15%, respectively  
(Figure 17). Belt and Road economies are key destinations for Chinese 
overseas construction projects, and Chinese construction machinery has 
gained market share much more rapidly in these markets. 
• Proactive “Going global” strategy . Since the 2010s, construction 
machinery manufacturers have viewed overseas expansion as a key pillar 
of future growth and have invested heavily in international distribution 
channels, service networks and localized production facilities. 
Looking ahead, we believe all three drivers are likely to remain in place for an 
extended period. China’s manufacturing capability and continued technological 
progress should support further gains in product competitiveness. Accelerating 
component localization could further strengthen the price advantage. Meanwhile, 
the overseas expansion of Chinese companies is expected to remain a long-term 
trend. Belt and Road economies warrant particular attention, as Chinese

### Page 8

14 September 2026 
China Macro

Deutsche Bank AG/Hong Kong Page 8

investment in these markets has surged in recent years, laying a solid foundation 
for further overseas expansion (Figure 18). As a result, we remain constructive on 
the outlook for construction machinery exports.  
That said, several risks warrant monitoring. First, further RMB appreciation could 
erode the price competitiveness of Chinese products. Second, the sharp increase 
in market share achieved in Brazil —from 20% to 90% —may not be easily 
replicated elsewhere. In some markets, Chinese firms could face stron ger 
competition from local manufacturers, limiting the pace of further market -share 
gains.

Figure 15: China's price advantage on HS8429 has 
become more pronounced since 2022

Figure 16: The expansion is driven by price cuts and 
increasing demand for higher-value products

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, UN Comtrade

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, CEIC. Each bubble represents an eight-digit category 
under HS8429.

Figure 17: Chinese contractors have been undertaking 
more projects overseas since 2024

Figure 18: China's direct investment in Belt-and-Road 
economies has also surged since 2024

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, CEIC

Source: Deutsche Bank Research, CEIC

### Page 9

Deutsche Bank Research Institute 
Global Expansion of Chinese Construction Machinery: Lessons from Brazil  – September 14, 2026

9

---
## Document 240: Is CPO technology killing M8_M9 PCB CCL demand_

Source PDF: all report pdf/Is CPO technology killing M8_M9 PCB CCL demand_.pdf
Report source: Substack Reports
Date: 2026-09-17
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

From:    陸⾏之  Andrew Lu on global semis and techs <andrewhclu@substack.com>
Subject: Is CPO technology killing M8/M9 PCB CCL demand?
Date:    16 hours ago
View in browser
Is CPO technology killing
M8/M9 PCB CCL demand?
CPO 技術未來是否將嚴重影響  M8/M9 等級超低耗損銅箔基板  CCL
需求？
ANDREW LU ON GLOBAL SEMI/TECHS
SEP 17 ∙ PAID
READ IN APP
CPO （ Co-Packaged Optics ，共封裝光學）讓主機板  PCB 的銅箔基板
（ CCL ）等級得以從極低損耗的  M8 / M9 （ Extreme Low Loss ）  ⼤幅
降階⾄  M4 （ Mid/Low Loss ），其根本原因在於⾼速電信號在  PCB 銅箔上

的傳輸距離（ Trace Length ）被壓縮⾄接近於零，傳輸損耗不再由主機板承
擔。但從投資或產業鏈的視⾓來看，未來  1-2 年（⾄  2H28 年）無需擔憂
CPO 衝擊  M8/M9 需求，因為  224G 插拔模組與⼤型  AI 叢集的出貨量正
在迎來陡峭爬坡期，但真正需要警戒的時間窗⼝在  2028 年底⾄  2029 年。
⾼頻⾼速電信號（如  112G PAM4 、 224G PAM4 ）在  PCB 上的損耗，主要
取決於兩⼤因素：
介質損耗（ Dielectric Loss ）：正⽐於傳輸頻率、材料介電耗損因⼦，
以及⾛線⻑度。
導體表⾯粗糙度與集膚效應（ Skin Eﬀect ）：頻率越⾼，電流越集中在
銅箔表層，損耗急劇攀升。
在傳統可插拔光模組（ Pluggable Optical Transceiver ）架構下，交換晶⽚
（ Switch ASIC ）位於主機板中央，⾼速電信號必須經由  PCB ⾛線⼀路延伸
到前⾯板（ Front Panel ）的光模組插槽，⾛線⻑度通常達  10 〜 18 英吋（約

25 〜 45 公分）。為了確保信號到達前⾯板時通道損耗不超過規範（如  IEEE
What’s new?
Why?
1. 傳輸通道⻑度與介質損耗的物理本質

### Page 2

802.3ck 規範的  ~28dB ⾄  32dB 總預算），整個主機板必須全⾯採⽤超低介
電損耗的  M8 、 M9 等級  CCL 銅箔基板。
Source: TSMC
付費訂閱戶可分享光纖通訊轉  Co-Packaged Optics
及  Optics on Interposer 不需要⽤  M8/M9 銅箔基板
的理由，對產業鏈的實質影響何時發⽣，誰受惠，誰受
害及結論
Subscribed
在  CPO 及  OOI (Optics on Interposer) 架構中，光引擎（ Optical Engine,
OE ）直接封裝在與  Switch ASIC 相同的基板（ Substrate / Interposer ）
上：
電 - 光轉換（ E-O / O-E ）提前完成：電信號只在先進封裝載板
（ Substrate ）內部⾛極短距離（通常僅幾毫⽶到  1~2 公分），隨即在光
引擎內轉換為光信號。
離開基板即是光纖（ Optical Fiber ）：從封裝邊緣拉到前⾯板或機櫃外

部的全部是光纖纜線，⽽光纖在機房短距內的傳輸損耗幾乎可以忽略不計
（光纖損耗每公⾥僅約  0.2~0.3dB ，數⼗公分內接近  0dB ）。
2. CPO 及  OOI 架構中移除了  PCB 上的⻑距離⾼速電信號通道

### Page 3

Source: TSMC
當最嚴苛的  112G/224G ⾼速電路⾛線被限制在晶⽚載板內部後，底層主機板
（ Main PCB / Motherboard ）所承載的信號發⽣了根本改變：
⾼速⾛線不再經過  PCB：主機板上不再需要佈設⻑距離的  112G/224G
SerDes ⾼頻差分⾛線。
PCB 僅需負責輔助功能：主要傳輸低速控制訊號（ PCIe Gen4/5 、
I2C 、 SPI 、 GPIO 、帶外管理網絡）、時鐘信號（ Clock ）以及⼤規模電源
供應（ Power Delivery Network, PDN ）。
M4 CCL 的性能已綽綽有餘：對於中低頻與控制信號， M4 等級  CCL 的
信號完整性（ Signal Integrity ）餘裕度已經⾮常充裕，完全不需要⽀付
M8/M9 ⾼昂的材料與加⼯成本。
除了電氣性能，降階⾄  M4 亦⼤幅降低了⽣產⾨檻：
材料成本： M8/M9 採⽤極低損耗樹脂體系（如  PTFE 、改性  PPO/PPE ）
與超低輪廓銅箔（ HVLP/HVLP2 ），成本常為傳統  M4 （ FR-4 / 中階改性

環氧樹脂）的  3 到  5 倍以上。
PCB 製程良率： M8/M9 壓合溫度⾼、膠⽚流動性控制嚴苛，多層厚板
（ 40 層以上）鑽孔磨損快且孔⾦屬化（ PTH ）難度極⾼； M4 的加⼯性、
熱機械穩定性與量產良率顯著優於  M8/M9 。
傳統架構下主機板被迫採⽤  M8/M9 ，本質上是為了「⽤昂貴材料補償銅箔
⾛線距離過⻑所產⽣的損耗」。 CPO 直接從系統拓撲上消滅了  PCB 上的⾼
3. 主機板  PCB 的功能轉變為中低速與配電
4. 成本與製造⼯藝的綜合考量
5. 核⼼結論：

### Page 4

速電信號傳輸距離，原本壓在主機板上的損耗預算負擔直接解除，因此
PCB 材料退回  M4 即已完全符合電氣規範。
從短期（ 2H26 〜 1H28 年）來看， CPO 不會削弱  M8/M9 CCL 的需求，⾼階
CCL 的出貨量依然處於⾼速成⻑爆發期；但到了⻑期（ 2028 下半年以後，特
別是  2029 〜 2030 年），隨著  CPO 與光互連全⾯進⼊超⼤型  AI 叢集與交換
機核⼼， M8/M9 在「主機板 / 交換機板」的單位⾯積需求確實會⾯臨結構性壓
縮。
當前  AI 伺服器機櫃（如  NVL72 、各家  ASIC 叢集）與⼤型數據中⼼交
換機（ 51.2T 、 102.4T ）在  2026 〜 2027 年仍以  Pluggable Optical
Transceiver 為主。
在單通道  112G PAM4 及剛進⼊量產的  224G PAM4 架構下，只要⾛線
仍留在  PCB 上，交換板（ Switch Board ）、運算加速卡（ OAM/UBB ）
對  M8 / M9 等級  CCL 的滲透率反⽽正在急遽攀升，⽬前正處於規格升

級帶來的量價⿑揚階段。
在  CPO 成熟前，系統廠為了解決  PCB ⾛線過⻑損耗問題，⼤量採⽤
「內部⾶線 / 跳線（ Internal PCIe/SerDes OverPass Cable ）」或「銅
纜背板（如  NVLink 銅纜架構）」。
這種做法雖然稍微減少了部分板層的極限⾛線，但系統主板
（ Baseboard ）為了⽀撐密集的信號連接器與⾼頻  SerDes 扇出，依然
維持在  M7/M8/M9 等級。
CPO 並沒有消除  112G/224G 的信號損耗問題，只是把電⾛線「從  PCB
搬到了先進封裝  ABF 載板或矽 / 玻璃中介層（ ABF Substrate /
Interposer ）」。
原本  PCB CCL 廠商的⾼階產能，在供應鏈中會轉向超⾼層數載板⽤材
料，或是被  AI 伺服器其他運算板（ GPU Baseboard 、 OAM ）吸收。
No near term impacts
Why no near term impacts to M8/M9

demand ？
1. 傳統插拔模組在  800G / 1.6T 依然是絕對主流
2. 銅纜直連（ DAC ）與⾶線（ Flyover Cable ）扮演過渡⾓⾊
3. ⾼頻需求轉移⾄「載板（ Substrate ）」⽽⾮消失
When the long term structural changes to
happen?

### Page 5

Source ： Andrew Lu on global semis/techs
Source: TSMC
⽬前⼀台⾼階  AI 交換機主板，往往採⽤  36 〜 50 層的  M8/M9 PCB ，單
板價值極⾼。
若  CPO 在  2028 年後成為標配，交換機主板降階為  16 〜 24 層的  M4
甚⾄普通  FR-4 板，主板的單機價值量（ ASP ）將暴跌  50% 〜 70% 。這
將直接壓縮台燿（ TUC ）、聯茂（ ITEQ ）、台光電（ EMC ）以及美⽇材料
⿓頭（ Panasonic 、 Isola ）在⾼階網絡主板的成⻑天花板。
Positive and negative impacts to supply
chain vendors
1. 潛在受衝擊端：⾼階⾼多層  PCB / CCL 廠商
2. 價值轉移端：半導體先進封裝與光學零組件

### Page 6

原本  PCB 廠商賺取的「材料低損耗溢價」，將轉移給：
矽光⼦（ SiPh ）晶圓代⼯與封裝（ TSMC COUPE 等先進光學封裝技
術）。
⾼階載板廠（ ABF Substrate ）：如欣興、 Ibiden 、南電，因為光引擎
與  ASIC 整合封裝需要更⼤⾯積、更⾼精密度的載板。但要是未來光纖技
術繼續轉向  OOI (Optics on Interposer) ， ABF 載板的重要性也相對會
降低。
⾼精度光纖陣列連接器（ MT/MPO 等光纖跳線）。
從投資或產業鏈的視⾓來看，未來  1-2 年（⾄  2H28 年）無需擔憂  CPO 衝擊
M8/M9 需求，因為  224G 插拔模組與⼤型  AI 叢集的出貨量正在迎來陡峭爬
坡期。真正需要警戒的時間窗⼝在  2028 年底⾄  2029 年（伴隨  102.4T /
204.8T 世代放量），屆時  CPO 若成功突破散熱、良率，標準化，及成本問
題，⾼階通訊  PCB/CCL 的成⻑曲線才會真正⾯臨影響，但前提還是要關注

考，並⾮投資建議，個⼈應審慎評估⾵險，如因此造成任何損失，本⼈不負任
何擔保責任 ; We are here to provide our professional opinions on
company and industry analysis but not the investment advice. The
use of the information contained in this material is at your own risk.
We make no guarantees and assume no responsibility or liability for
any information on the report.
Invite your friends and earn rewards
If you enjoy Andrew Lu on global semis and techs, share it with your friends
and earn rewards when they subscribe.

Invite Friends
LIKE
COMMENT
RESTACK
Conclusions

### Page 7

© 2026 Andrew Lu
548 Market Street PMB 72296, San Francisco, CA 94104
Unsubscribe

---
## Document 268: Q2 GDP Partials & Forecast Update (2026-09-17)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Q2 GDP Partials & Forecast Update (2026-09-17).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 15
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

#australia #gdp #forecasts
Q2 GDP Partials & Forecast Update
By Pat Bustamante, Mantas Vanagas, Ryan Wells & Neha Sharma
14:32 September 01 2026 Share
Net exports mask softer domestic demand.
Q2 GDP Forecast Update
Australia’s economy stayed stuck in the slow lane, with GDP expected to rise just 0.3%qtr and
1.8%yr in Q2. We expect the June quarter National Accounts to confirm that growth has returned to the
subdued pace seen through late 2024 and early 2025.

### Page 2

We have revised our Q2 GDP nowcast slightly higher (+0.3%qtr vs +0.2%qtr) following a
stronger-than-expected contribution from net exports. Services imports fell almost 5.0%qtr, the
sharpest decline since the pandemic (or the June quarter 2020), as households and businesses
shelved travel plans amid the conflict in the Middle East. As a result, net exports are now expected to
contribute 0.1ppt to GDP growth in Q2, a marked improvement from the 0.3ppt drag we anticipated in

our Q2 GDP preview.
The stronger contribution from net exports was partly offset by softer growth in domestic demand and
an unexpected rundown in inventories, particularly in the mining sector. Public demand surprised on
the downside, reflecting a decline in public investment as the infrastructure pipeline has now
clearly passed its peak, particularly in NSW and Victoria. Public demand is now growing at just
0.7%yr in six-month annualised terms, well below the pre-pandemic decade average of 3.2%yr. The

outright decline in public infrastructure investment is likely releasing capacity that can be redeployed
into other construction-related activities, including dwelling investment and data centre construction.
The fall in services imports, which includes international holiday travel, has also led to a modest
downgrade to expected growth in household consumption in Q2, from 0.5%qtr to 0.4%qtr. Finally,
inventories are now expected to detract 0.1ppt from Q2 GDP growth rather than make a flat

contribution.
Given this update, the domestic demand impulse (spending by consumers, businesses and
governments) is now estimated to have grown 0.3%qtr in Q2 and 3.1% over the year, marking the
softest quarterly increase since December quarter 2023. This is around 0.2ppts weaker than we
anticipated in our Q2 GDP preview.
The combined contribution from the external sector and inventories is now expected to be flat in Q2,
a notable improvement from the 0.3ppt drag anticipated in our preview.

As always, these “partial” indicators should be treated with caution. They are not always a reliable
guide to National Accounts components, and there are significant areas of activity for which regular
partial measures are not available.

### Page 3

Public Demand
Growth in total public demand fell short of our expectation, lifting 0.2% in Q2, marking yet another
sluggish reading following Q1’s decline of –0.5%.

### Page 4

Public consumption rose 0.6%qtr, slightly below our expectation but firmer than Q1’s decline of –
0.5%qtr (revised down from –0.2%qtr) which was associated with the conclusion of the Federal
Government’s Energy Bill Relief Fund. In Q2, the lift in public consumption was broadly based across
both national and state/local levels, up 0.6%qtr and 0.5%qtr respectively. At the national level, the
increase in government spending in the quarter was centred on non-defence related categories.

Structural spending in programs such as the NDIS and a range of cost-of-living measures rolled out by
Federal and State governments, including free public transport initiatives introduced in response to
higher fuel prices, would have contributed positively during the quarter. Despite the lift in the quarter,
public consumption is growing just 2.2% in year-ended terms, well down on the pre pandemic decade
average of 3.5%yr.
However, total public investment was the main disappointment in Q2, falling –1.3% (note that the fall in

new investment is likely smaller as total investment includes second hand asset purchases). The
decline was driven by the general government sector, specifically a significant pull-back in national
non-defence investment (–13.3%qtr), while public investment at the state/local level and from public
corporations was little changed. We had anticipated a soft result given partial indicators to date showed
public infrastructure works had fallen in the quarter as a number of major transport and energy projects

were completed. In the event, however, the scale of the decline was larger than we had pencilled in,
while defence investment did not provide an offset in the quarter, instead falling –2.7%qtr.
Looking ahead, public demand is unlikely to support growth in a meaningful way. Fiscal conditions are

### Page 5

tightening, while higher yields are increasing borrowing costs, with government borrowing rising to
almost $25 billion in the June quarter 2026, from $17 billion a year ago.
External Sector
Balance of Payments data showed that net trade supported growth in the June quarter, contrary to our
expectation of a 0.3ppt detraction. After detracting 0.7ppt from GDP growth in the March quarter, net
trade added 0.1ppt this time. As expected, goods trade was a drag, but services imports surprised

significantly to the downside.
Total exports rose by 0.8%qtr, as goods exports (1.4%qtr) benefited from a recovery in major
commodity outflows, particularly coal exports (11.8%qtr), after weather disruptions in Q1. Manufactured
goods exports jumped 5.0%, but other major export categories were weaker – for example, rural goods
exports fell more than 3%qtr, while non-monetary gold recorded a 4.1%qtr contraction.
Services exports declined 1.5%. The data highlighted two distinct themes. The first was a decline in

tourism, which fell for a third quarter in a row. The second centred on education exports, which account
for around 40% of total services exports and have grown very rapidly over the past 10–15 years. With
the government having tightened student visa rules, the number of international students is now falling,
gradually dragging education exports down with it. It has now decreased for a fourth consecutive
quarter, by 1.0%qtr.
Imports rose 0.5%qtr, thanks to a 2.4%qtr increase in goods imports. As expected, Automated Data

Processing (ADP) equipment imports fell by about a quarter, following an 85% increase at the start of
the year. The sharp adjustment was consistent with the message from last week’s capex data, which
highlighted a retreat in datacentre investment after a surge in Q1. It also matches our expectation that
investment flows in this area are likely to come in fits and starts.
Data for fuel and vehicle imports highlighted the impact of the global energy price shock. Fuel imports

rose by 42.5% in nominal terms. Most of that jump was accounted for by price effects, but fuel import
volumes were also up, by 5.7%qtr, despite the global oil supply shortages. Meanwhile, consumers
reacted to the spike in fuel prices by switching to EVs, most of which are imported from China. As a
result, non-industrial transport equipment imports jumped by more than a third, leaving total
consumption goods imports up 7.4%qtr.
On the services side, imports plummeted almost 5.0%qtr. This was mainly due to a 12% correction in

tourism, likely reflecting the impact from the Middle East conflict, which seems to have disrupted Aussie
holidays abroad much more than the inbound tourism.

### Page 6

In nominal terms, the current account deficit widened further in the June quarter, by almost $2bn, less
than we had expected. Following the downward revision to the March quarter deficit, this left the June
quarter deficit at $27.2bn, equivalent to around 3.7% of GDP. The deterioration was accounted for by a
narrowing in the goods trade balance to $2.2bn, partly offset by an improvement in the services
balance to -$7.3bn. Meanwhile, the primary income deficit remained little changed, as the improvement

in returns on foreign assets was offset by a similar increase in returns on foreign-owned assets in
Australia.

### Page 7

Related articles
Stay informed with Westpac IQ
Get the latest reports straight to your inbox.
Subscribe

### Page 8

The AI build-out: A faster economic payoff than LNG
September 15 2026 • 5 mins
#australia
By Pat Bustamante
#australia

### Page 9

Australia and NZ Weekly 14 September 2026
September 14 2026 • 10 mins
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke & 10 more
Australia and NZ Weekly 14 September 2026
September 11 2026 • 10 mins
#australia
By Luci Ellis , Matthew Hassan , Elliot Clarke & 10 more
#aud #australia #interestrates #nzd #usd #newzealand #rates #credit
#yieldcurve #acgb #inflation #semigovernment #rba #basis #commodities
Browse topics

### Page 10

#ustreasury #fx #jpy #rbnz #abs Show more tags

### Page 11

Disclaimer
©2026 Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 (including where acting under any of its
Westpac, St George, Bank of Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”).  References to
the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and includes the directors, employees and
representatives of Westpac and its subsidiaries.

### Page 12

Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking products and services to its clients, the
Westpac Group may act in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously with respect to a financial
instrument, giving rise to potential conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a
financial instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a position (including
hedging and trading positions) for its own account or the account of a client in any financial
instrument which may impact the performance of that financial instrument.

Author(s) disclaimer and declaration: The author(s) confirms that (a) no part of his/her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable)
recommendations expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/her personal
views about the financial products, companies or issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources
reasonably believed to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge, they are
not in receipt of inside information and this material does not contain inside information; and (d) no
other part of the Westpac Group has made any attempt to influence this material.

### Page 13

appropriateness of the advice.

New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers to the brand under which
products and services are provided by either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand
Limited (company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated subsidiary of Westpac
("WNZL"). Any product or service made available by WNZL does not represent an offer from
Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac nor its other subsidiaries
guarantee or otherwise support the performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL is
not an authorised deposit-taking institution for the purposes of Australian prudential standards. The
current disclosure statements for the New Zealand branch of Westpac and WNZL can be obtained
at the internet address www.westpac.co.nz.

Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac Fiji are available from
www.westpac.com.fj © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This information does
not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking Corporation ABN
33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of
its members is limited.

Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for Westpac PNG are
available from www.westpac.com.pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account and before acting on it you
should consider the appropriateness of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia. Westpac is represented in
Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank - PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.

### Page 14

ce ta  ega  ag ee e ts bet ee  estpac a d C  a d ob gat o s o  C  do ot ep ese t
liabilities of Westpac.

The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is not registered or qualified as a
research analyst, representative, or associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer
under the rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the laws, rules or
regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically stated, the views expressed herein are solely
those of the author and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by Westpac
and/or its affiliates.

UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United Kingdom by the Prudential
Regulation Authority (PRA) and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register number: 124586).  The London
branch of Westpac is registered at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the regulation of Westpac’s London
branch by the PRA are available from us on request.

This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must not be passed on to, the
general public in the United Kingdom. Rather, this communication is being made only to and is
directed at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment Professionals (set out in
Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the
“Order”)); (b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth companies, unincorporated
associations etc. (set out in Article 49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons to whom it may otherwise lawfully
be made (all such persons together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who is not
a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication or any of its contents. In the same
way, the information contained in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties” and

### Page 15

“professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority and is not intended
for “retail clients”.  Westpac expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.

European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac
directly, or (ii) Westpac Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.  WEG has not
edited or otherwise modified the content of this material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the
Federal Financial Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.  WEG’s supervisory
authorities are BaFin and the German Federal Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered
with the commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of Frankfurt am Main under
registration number HRB 118483.  In accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other than as provided for in certain
legal agreements (a risk transfer, sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac and
WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of Westpac.  Any product or service made
available by WEG does not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries (other than
WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally to WEG.

This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by any person or entity in any
jurisdiction or country where such distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.

---
## Document 302: Unknown

Source PDF: all report pdf/Unknown.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 10
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

兆豐國際商業銀行 徵信處 
中華民國一一五年九月七日

國際經濟金融週報

### Page 2

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

1

國際經濟金融週報內容摘要 
美 
國 
美國就業回穩支撐景氣韌性，惟通膨壓力與貿易逆差擴大增添政策不確定性 
經濟 
⚫ 8 月美國非農就業增加 16.2 萬人，優於前月及近一年平均，失業率維持
4.1%，就業市場呈現溫和增長，整體表現仍具韌性。新增就業以餐飲服
務、地方政府教育及製造業為主，惟資訊業仍減少人力。 
⚫ 7 月美國職位空缺數增至 727.1 萬個 ， 職缺率由4.3%升至 4.4%； 惟聘僱
及總離職人數分別減少 27.8 萬人及 26.5 萬人，其中主動離職人數減少
15.7 萬人，裁員與解僱人數減少11.9 萬人。整體來看，企業用人需求尚
屬穩健，但招募及勞工流動動能略有降溫，勞動市場供需仍維持平衡。 
⚫ 8 月美國 ISM 製造業採購經理人指數為 54.6，雖較上月下降 1.0 點，但
已連續八個月維持擴張。新訂單、就業、未完成訂單及進口指數回落，
顯示需求動能有所放緩 ； 惟生產與出口持續擴張 ， 供應商交貨時間延長 ，
原物料價格仍處高檔，整體製造業活動仍維持擴張態勢。 
⚫ 8 月美國 ISM 服務業採購經理人指數由 54.1 升至 55.4，連續第 26 個月
維持擴張。商業活動與新訂單指數分別升至 61.7 及 60.9，反映服務業
需求仍具支撐；惟雇傭指數連續兩個月低於 50，企業聘僱態度仍較審
慎。此外，價格指數升至 72.6，創 2022 年 8 月以來新高，通膨與成本
壓力依然偏高。 
⚫ 7 月美國商品及服務貿易逆差擴大至 886 億美元，較上月增加 24.4%，
主因出口減少 2.1%、進口增加 2.8%。出口下滑主要受原油及非貨幣黃
金等工業原料出口減少影響；進口則受電腦、半導體等資本財需求增加
帶動。累計前 7 月貿易逆差較去年同期縮減 29.6%，顯示美國對外貿易
失衡情況明顯改善。 
重要 
事件 
⚫ 美國於 8 月 30 日以伊朗革命衛隊疑似準備在荷姆茲海峽部署水雷、威
脅商業航運安全為由，對伊朗拉拉克島軍事設施發動精準打擊。伊朗隨
後向約旦境內美軍基地發射飛彈及無人機報復，區域緊張情勢明顯升
溫。由於荷姆茲海峽為全球重要原油運輸樞紐，市場對能源供應與航運
安全的疑慮加深，帶動國際油價及避險需求走高，並增添全球通膨及金
融市場不確定性。 
短評 ⚫ 8 月非農就業優於預期 ， 失業率維持低檔 ， 勞動市場尚未明顯轉弱 ；7 月

### Page 3

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

2

職缺增加且裁員率下降，反映企業用人需求仍具支撐。另一方面，製造
業與服務業 PMI 持續位於擴張區間，其中服務業需求動能尤為強勁。
然而，製造業及服務業價格指數維持高檔、貿易逆差擴大，加上關稅政
策與中東地緣政治風險升溫，可能推升通膨壓力，市場對聯準會維持偏
緊貨幣政策的預期有所升高。 
歐 
元 
區 
通膨壓力回升，核心通膨走向值得關注 
經濟 ⚫ 歐元區 7 月失業率持平 6.4%。 
⚫ 歐元區 8 月 HICP 通膨上升 0.4 個百分點至 3.3%。 
重大
事件 
⚫ 歐盟執委會於 8 月 31 日公布鋼鐵產品原產地認定新規定，要求進口商
提供「熔煉及澆鑄地」證明文件，以確認鋼鐵真正來源國，防堵洗產地
情形。 
短評 
⚫ 8 月以來布蘭特原油大致位於每桶 85-95 美元區間，預期年底前仍將對
通膨帶來額外壓力，後續須關注能源漲價可能會透過運輸、物流等成本
管道傳導至核心商品及服務價格，進而提高核心通膨黏性。 
日 
本 
製造業產出穩健成長，消費動能仍具韌性 
經濟 ⚫ 7 月零售月增 2.4%。 
⚫ 7 月工業生產月增 0.1%。 
短評 
⚫ 7 月零售與工業生產同步改善，顯示內需及製造業動能均維持穩健。其
中 AI 相關需求持續帶動製造業擴張；消費支出則受耐久財及非耐久財
需求回升支撐，短期景氣仍具韌性。 
中 
國 
8 月景氣略為回穩，但前景仍有較多不利因素 
經濟 
⚫ 8 月官方製造業 PMI 回升 0.6 點至 49.8、非製造業 PMI 持平為 49。 
⚫ 8 月 RatingDog 製造業 PMI 回升 0.6 點至 50.9， 服務業PMI 增加 1 點至
51.4。 
重要 
事件 
⚫ G20 峰會將中國龐大貿易順差視為加劇全球經濟失衡的重要因素之
一，國際社會要求中國擴大內需及調整經濟結構的壓力持續升高。 
短評 
⚫ 展望未來，中國出口環境仍面臨國際貿易保護主義升溫的壓力影響，9
月 24 日川習會若會談結果正向，將有助降低出口面臨之政策風險。

### Page 4

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

3

東 
(南) 
亞 
印度經濟保持強勁、馬來西亞央行利率不變 
經濟 
⚫ 印度 2026 年第二季經濟成長率（GDP）年增 7.8%。 
⚫ 8 月 S&P Global 東協（ASEAN）製造業採購經理人指數(PMI)較上月小
幅回落 0.5 點至 52.3。 
⚫ 馬來西亞央行 9 月貨幣政策會議 ， 如預期維持基準利率 （OPR）於2.75%
不變。 
短評 
⚫ 儘管印度上半年經濟成長保持強勁，但油價衝擊、天氣風險和資本流動
趨緊，提高經濟運行成本，後續成長動能取決於能源價格走勢及外部衝
擊能否進一步緩和。 
⚫ 馬來西亞內、外需穩健且通膨可控，給予央行彈性因應國際局勢變化的
政策空間。

### Page 5

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

4

國際經濟金融週報 
兆豐國際商業銀行 徵信處 
115.9.7 
一、 美國—就業回穩支撐景氣韌性，惟通膨壓力與貿易逆差擴大增添政策不確
定性 
2026 年 8 月美國就業市場呈現回穩跡象，非農就業人數較上月增加 16.2 萬
人，不僅高於上月修正後的 2.1 萬人，也明顯優於過去 12 個月平均每月增加 3.1
萬人的水準；失業率則維持於 4.1%，失業人數約 703.1 萬人，顯示勞動市場整體
尚未明顯轉弱。從產業表現來看，新增就業主要集中於餐飲服務業增加 5.9 萬人
及地方政府教育部門增加 4.2 萬人 ， 製造業亦增加1.6 萬人 ， 持續支撐就業成長 ；
醫療保健業增加 1.3 萬人，雖維持擴張，但增幅低於過去一年平均水準。另一方
面 ， 資訊業減少2.3 萬人 ， 為主要拖累來源 ， 反映部分產業仍處於人力調整階段 。
勞動市場結構方面，勞動參與率回升至 61.6%，較前月改善，但仍較今年 1 月低
0.5 個百分點；就業人口比率則上升至 59.1%。薪資與工時方面，民營部門平均每
週工時升至 34.4 小時，平均時薪增至 37.75 美元，月增 0.3%、年增 3.1%，薪資
成長保持溫和。整體而言，8 月就業數據顯示美國勞動市場在前月疲弱後回穩，
且前兩個月數據上修，反映就業市場仍具韌性。強勁就業報告公布後，美債殖利
率走升，市場對聯準會 9 月維持偏緊政策的預期升溫，升息可能性亦有所提高。 
2026 年 7 月美國職位空缺數為 727.1 萬個，較上月增加 8.9 萬個，職缺率由
4.3%升至 4.4%；聘僱人數為 505.4 萬人，較上月減少 27.8 萬人，聘僱率由 3.4%
降至 3.2%；總離職人數為 507.2 萬人，較上月減少 26.5 萬人，離職率亦由 3.4%
降至 3.2%，顯示勞動市場流動性有所降溫。就離職結構觀察，主動離職人數為
305.6 萬人，較上月減少 15.7 萬人；裁員與解僱人數為 166.6 萬人，較上月減少
11.9 萬人 。 產業別方面 ， 職位空缺增加主要集中於耐久財製造業(增加 7.6 萬個)；
聘僱人數則以專業及商業服務業減少 18.8 萬人最為明顯 ； 主動離職人數以住宿及
餐飲服務業減少 8.6 萬人最多。整體而言，7 月美國職缺小幅增加，顯示企業用
人需求仍具支撐，惟聘僱及離職規模同步縮減，反映勞動市場流動性趨緩；加以
主動離職率及裁員率雙雙下降，顯示勞工轉職意願與企業人力調整均趨於審慎，
勞動市場供需大致維持平衡。 
2026 年 8 月美國 ISM 製造業採購經理人指數(Manufacturing PMI)為 54.6，較

### Page 6

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

5

上月的 55.6 下降 1.0 點，惟已連續第八個月維持在 50 以上擴張區間，顯示美國
製造業景氣持續擴張。細項觀察，新訂單指數由56.7 降至 53.7，雖連續第八個月
處於擴張區間，但需求動能較前月放緩；生產指數由58.5 微降至 58.3，連續第十
個月擴張，產出活動維持穩健；就業指數由52.8 降至 51.2，仍處擴張區間，反映
企業聘僱需求持續增加。供應商交貨指數由58.9 升至 59.3，供應商交貨時間持續
延長；庫存指數則由 51.2 降至 50.6，企業仍持續累積庫存，但備貨動能較前月趨
緩。此外，價格指數維持71.1 不變，原物料價格仍處相對高檔；新出口訂單指數
由 53.0 微升至 53.2， 連續第二個月維持擴張 ； 惟未完成訂單指數由55.0 降至 51.8，
進口指數亦由 55.7 降至 52.5，顯示部分需求與投入動能有所降溫。整體而言，8
月美國製造業活動雖仍維持擴張，但擴張力道較前月略有減弱，新訂單、就業、
未完成訂單及進口等指標同步回落，反映需求成長動能趨緩；另一方面，供應商
交貨時間持續延長、原物料價格維持高檔，加以中東地緣政治衝突、關稅政策及
供應鏈不確定性仍存，可能持續對製造業活動形成壓力。 
2026 年 8 月美國 ISM 服務業採購經理人指數(Services PMI) 升至 55.4，較上
月 54.1 上升 1.3 個百分點，連續第26 個月維持在 50 以上擴張區間，且高於近12
個月平均值 53.7，顯示美國服務業景氣持續穩健擴張。商業活動指數由59.1 升至
61.7，創 2022 年 11 月以來最高水準；新訂單指數由 57.2 升至 60.9，連續 15 個
月維持擴張，創 2023 年 2 月以來新高，顯示需求動能進一步增強。勞動市場方
面，雇傭指數由 47.4 微升至 47.8，但已連續兩個月處於收縮區間，反映企業聘僱
態度仍偏審慎。價格指數由 70.3 升至 72.6，創 2022 年 8 月以來最高水準，顯示
通膨與成本壓力依舊偏高。供應鏈方面，供應商交期指數由52.8 降至 51.3，雖連
續 21 個月高於 50，但已連續第四個月改善；庫存指數則由 51.4 升至 56.7，顯示
企業備貨意願增強。此外，新出口訂單指數及進口指數均升至 56.3，反映外部需
求與採購活動同步回溫。整體而言，8 月美國服務業景氣擴張力道進一步增強，
商業活動與新訂單表現亮眼，惟就業指數仍低於榮枯線，加上企業持續關注關稅
政策及中東衝突對供應鏈與成本的影響，後續仍須觀察通膨與勞動市場發展。 
2026 年 7 月美國商品及服務貿易逆差擴大至 886 億美元 ， 較上月增加174 億
美元，增幅 24.4%。當月出口 3,107 億美元，較上月減少 66 億美元(-2.1%)；進口
3,993 億美元，較上月增加 108 億美元(+2.8%)。其中，商品貿易逆差擴大至1,196
億美元，較上月增加 17.3%；服務貿易順差則增至 310 億美元，增幅 0.7%。出口

### Page 7

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

6

下滑主要受工業用品及原材料出口減少 87 億美元影響，其中原油及非貨幣黃金
出口降幅較為明顯 ； 進口成長則主要來自資本財進口增加144 億美元 ， 尤以電腦 、
電腦周邊設備及半導體進口增加最為突出。累計 2026 年 1 至 7 月，美國商品及
服務貿易逆差為 4,472 億美元 ， 較2025 年同期縮減 29.6%； 同期出口成長12.0%，
進口則增加 1.9%，顯示美國對外貿易失衡情況較去年同期明顯改善。 
8 月 30 日美軍以伊朗革命衛隊(IRGC)疑似準備於荷姆茲海峽部署水雷 、 威脅
商業航運安全為由，對伊朗拉拉克島(Larak Island) 火箭發射設施發動精準打擊，
為美方逾一個月來首度對伊朗本土目標採取軍事行動。伊朗隨後以飛彈及無人機
攻擊約旦與阿聯酋境內美軍相關設施作為回應，顯示衝突已由雙邊軍事對抗逐步
向區域層面擴散。至 9 月 5 日美國中央司令部(CENTCOM)表示，因伊朗革命衛
隊向兩艘美國海軍艦艇發射彈道飛彈，美軍已對 3 艘伊朗油輪發動攻擊，其中一
艘位於伊朗重要石油出口樞紐哈爾克島(Kharg Island)外海。美方稱未造成人員傷
亡，惟伊朗半官方媒體指出，哈爾克島錨地附近油輪遭 4 枚美軍飛彈擊中，船員
已展開撤離。由於哈爾克島為伊朗最重要的原油出口據點，戰前約九成原油出口
均經由該地，加上荷姆茲海峽為全球關鍵能源運輸通道，本次衝突已明顯升高市
場對油輪航行安全、原油供應穩定性及運輸成本上揚的憂慮，帶動布蘭特原油期
貨於 9 月 4 日收報每桶 96.28 美元，創 7 月 24 日以來新高。整體而言，美伊衝突
已由原先針對軍事設施的交鋒，進一步延伸至能源運輸與油輪目標，若後續報復
與反制行動持續升級，恐加劇中東原油供應中斷風險，推升全球能源價格與通膨
壓力，並提高市場對美國經濟前景及聯準會貨幣政策走向的不確定性。 
二、歐元區—通膨壓力回升，核心通膨走向值得關注 
 歐元區 7 月失業率持平 6.4%，失業人數持平上月水準。其中德國失業人數增
加 1.1 萬人，失業率持平為 4%；法國、義大利失業人數皆下降 1 萬人，失業率分
別持平為 8.3%、5.8%； 西班牙失業人數持平上月 ， 惟因部分勞動力退出勞動市場 ，
使失業率略降為 10.1%。整體而言，失業率維持在 6.3%-6.4%的低點區間波動，
且 8 月 PMI 的就業指數也有所增溫， 顯示勞動市場的韌性可望延續， 並支持消費
需求表現。 
 歐元區 8 月 HICP 通膨上升 0.4 個百分點至 3.3%，其中因燃料價格上揚，能
源通膨上升 4 個百分點至 14.3%，食品通膨則穩定於 1.2%，迄今能源及化肥價格

### Page 8

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

7

上漲仍未對食品價格造成明顯影響 ， 惟不排除存在滯後效應 。 核心通膨(不含食品
及能源)則下降 0.1 個百分點至 2.4%， 主要是服務業通膨下降0.3 個百分點至 3%，
反映旅遊相關通膨放緩；非能源工業產品通膨則上升 0.3 個百分點至 1.2%，主因
天氣炎熱，使消暑產品價格上漲，加上 3C 產品漲價的趨勢影響。整體而言，能
源價格雖然強勁回升，但其影響尚未傳導至核心物價，且薪資上漲壓力降溫，減
輕服務通膨上漲壓力 。 不過 ，8 月以來布蘭特原油大致位於每桶 85-95 美元區間 ，
預期年底前仍將對通膨帶來額外壓力，後續須關注能源漲價可能會透過運輸、物
流等成本管道傳導至核心商品及服務價格，進而提高核心通膨黏性。 
三、日本—製造業產出穩健成長，消費動能仍具韌性 
7 月零售月增 2.4%，部份反映 6 月受梅雨及豪雨天氣影響後的回升，顯示消
費動能仍具韌性。其中耐久財消費持續受到政策及汰舊換新需求支撐，家電銷售
在 6 月大幅下滑後明顯回升 ， 主要受空調等產品需求帶動 ； 汽車銷售額大致持平，
顯示政府自 4 月推動的稅務優惠措施效果尚未消退。另，非耐久財消費亦呈現全
面改善，服裝銷售受炎熱天氣帶動而大幅回升，一般商品銷售則反映國內消費及
觀光需求同步增強，食品銷售亦維持成長， 惟部分增幅可能並非實際需求增加，
若未來食品通膨進一步升溫，恐壓縮家庭實質購買力及消費信心，進而對後續非
耐久財支出及消費動能形成壓力。 
7 月工業生產月增 0.1%，主要係人工智慧相關需求帶動，科技與非科技產業
產出同步增加，其中半導體製造設備、電子零組件及化學工業表現尤為亮眼。出
貨月增 2.2%，高於生產增幅，而庫存僅增 0.5%、庫存率下降 1.7%，顯示產品去
化情況良好，整體供需維持穩健。展望未來，企業預估 8 月工業生產將大幅成長
6.4%，雖 9 月可能略為回落，但PMI 等前瞻指標仍顯示製造業活動持續擴張，預
計第三季製造業產出可望維持穩健成長。 
四、中國—8 月景氣略為回穩，但前景仍有較多不利因素 
8 月官方製造業 PMI 回升 0.6 點至 49.8，連續兩個月處於微幅衰退區間，新
訂單、出口訂單指數雖分別回升至 50.6、50.1，並帶動生產指數回到 50.4，不過，
庫存指數下降 、 就業指數加速衰退 、 企業展望減弱 ， 皆拖累PMI 指數水準 。 此外 ，
供應鏈交期指數上升至 50.1、投入物價指數回升至 56.6，反映交期拉長及成本加
速上漲，使業者營運承壓；產出物價指數回升 2.6 點至 50.4，售價調整速度依然

### Page 9

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

8

較為遲緩，不利於獲利表現。另外，RatingDog 的 8 月製造業 PMI 則回升 0.6 點
至 50.9，出口訂單指數為近 6 個月最高，表現較官方製造業 PMI 為佳，反映
RatingDog 調查對象多為出口導向型企業所致。 
官方非製造業 PMI 持平 49，其中建築業活動指數降 0.1 點至 46.9，為連續八
個月處於衰退區間；服務業商務活動指數持平 49.3，非製造業的從業人員指數為
45.4，顯示就業情況仍顯嚴峻，亦較不利於內需表現。另方面，RatingDog 服務業
PMI 增加 1 點至 51.4，較 7 月的低點溫和反彈。相較於官方非製造業 PMI，
RatingDog 服務業因不包含大型不動產開發商而表現較佳，且內需動能有回升跡
象，不過，RatingDog 的產出價格指數跌破 50，為今年首見，反映下游競爭激烈
導致成本難以轉嫁，故雖通膨可望維持低檔，但企業獲利將持續承壓。 
展望未來，G20 峰會將中國龐大貿易順差視為加劇全球經濟失衡的重要因素
之一，國際社會要求中國擴大內需及調整經濟結構的壓力持續升高。此外，中國
仍面臨美國 301 關稅調查、歐盟擴大貿易保護措施等，出口環境仍具不確定性。
未來將關注 9 月 24 日川習會，預計雙方將就關稅措施、出口管制、AI 及先進科
技管制等議題進行協商，若會談結果正向，將有助緩解中美貿易摩擦，降低出口
面臨之政策風險。 
五、印度及東南亞—印度經濟保持強勁、馬來西亞央行利率不變 
印度: 2026 年第二季(2026/27 財年第一季)經濟成長率 （GDP） 年增7.8%，持平於
上季，仍為二十國集團（G20）成長最快國家，成長最快行業依序為:金融服務業
12.1%、製造業 9.2%、公用事業 8.9%、貿易/旅館/運輸/通訊業 8.5%；不過，農業
產出僅增長 3.6%，採礦及採石業則收縮 2.4%。儘管上半年經濟成長表現強勁，
製造業、消費和信貸均展現韌性；不過，油價上漲、印度盧比承壓以及季風降雨
不足等風險持續積累 ， 並透過貿易逆差 、 通膨和企業成本等管道向實體經濟傳導 ，
為經濟前景增添不確定性。 
東南亞:8 月 S&P Global 東協 （ASEAN） 製造業採購經理人指數(PMI)較上月小幅
回落 0.5 點至 52.3，仍保持穩健擴張態勢，其中，新訂單以接近歷史高點的速度
增加，生產活動雖較前月放緩，仍保持穩健；採購活動持續擴張，但聘僱與原物
料庫存小幅下滑，顯示廠商在人力與庫存建置仍偏謹慎，未完成訂單持平前月，
顯示產能壓力依然存在。價格方面，投入成本與產品售價均降至六個月低點，通

### Page 10

本報告係根據研究資料及各項可靠數據作成，兆豐銀行保留報告內容所有權利，未經本行許可，請勿引
用相關內容。

9

膨壓力進一步緩和 ， 供應商交貨時間延遲情況較前月減輕 ； 企業信心進一步增強 ，
未來一年產出預期指數達近四年高點。按個別國家來看，8 月除印尼(49.8)自擴張
轉為收縮外 ， 馬來西亞(50.2)、 泰國(53.8)較上月下滑 ， 新加坡(59.4)、 菲律賓(54.9)、
越南(53.3)均加速擴張。整體而言，在需求穩健、供應鏈改善及價格壓力減輕下，
東協國家製造業可望保持穩健擴張態勢，惟美伊衝突的不確定性仍存，持續推升
通膨預期並干擾供應鏈，同時牽動全球資金流動，仍須留意其對生產及企業獲利
的影響。 
馬來西亞 ：馬來西亞央行 9 月貨幣政策會議 ， 如預期維持基準利率 （OPR）於2.75%
不變。央行指出，儘管全球經濟情勢存在不確定性，得益於強勁的出口、穩健的
就業與內需 ，2026 年上半年經濟成長率(GDP)達 5.7%， 預計2026 年全年可達 5%，
而良好基本面將使 2027 年的經濟成長保持韌性。通膨方面，2026 年前七個月，
平均整體通膨率和核心通膨率分別為 1.8%和 2%，儘管受中東緊張局勢影響，全
球大宗商品價格上漲，但預計物價壓力仍將保持在可控範圍內。整體而言，受益
於全球經濟前景的改善、科技相關出口需求強勁及旅遊業活動增加，為經濟成長
帶來上行潛力，惟地緣政治緊張局勢持續、全球金融環境趨緊以及對金融市場估
值過高的擔憂，仍帶來下行風險。目前的貨幣政策立場與物價持續穩定和經濟可
持續成長的前景相符 ， 未來將密切關注國際局勢變化 、 成本壓力和國內需求狀況 ，
彈性調整政策。

---
## Document 340: 【新興債市】美債務擴張彰顯新興債穩健優勢

Source PDF: all report pdf/【新興債市】美債務擴張彰顯新興債穩健優勢.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
美債務擴張彰顯新興債穩健優勢
分析師／謝曉薇
研究範疇／新興主權債／新興企業債
新興市場債市投資攻略
出 刊 日 : 2026/8/27
熱門議題 / 投資關鍵
《新興國家審慎的發債計畫讓債務量能更為可控》
美國政府債務站上 40兆美元大關，市場對財政赤字
與長期通膨的疑慮推升美國公債利率的上升 ，美國
30年期公債殖利率一度來到 5.33%、創2007年來新
高，不僅造成金融市場的擔憂 ，亦出動美國財政部
進行「發短買長 」式的債券回購 。美國公債殖利率
向來被認為是全球金融市場無風險利率的定價基準 ，
殖利率攀升無疑壓抑全球固定收益商品表現 ，然而
新興債市卻在此波利率走揚的同時 ，展現穩健表現 。
市場投資展望
資產 3Q26

殖利率目標價 投資展望
新興主要貨幣主權債指數 6.00% 較高的殖利率及穩健基本面將使其在利率波動時更為穩健
新興主要貨幣企業債指數 6.12% A~BB級企業相對穩健
新興投資級債指數 4.70% 亞洲企業債供給有限支撐買氣，中東良好債信吸引力仍佳
新興非投資級債指數 6.90% BB級具升等潛力，拉美非投資級債可望因油價上漲而受惠
新興當地貨幣債指數 6.30% 風險溢酬已反應貨幣政策較差情境，貨幣政策支持殖利率下行
人民幣債指數 2.60% 景氣不均衡復甦，寬鬆貨幣政策為主要支撐力
亞洲當地貨幣債指數 4.35% 亞洲國家貨幣政策觀望，短線維持中性看法
• 新興國家審慎的發債計畫讓債務
量能更為可控 Pg1
• 貨幣政策牽引新當債正向看法 Pg3
• 新興企業債務管理能力佳，資產
負債表普遍穩健 Pg4
• 獲利成長有助債信改善，新興企
業債各有利基 Pg5
利
重點摘要
本月關鍵圖表
• 美國債務風險推高長天期債
利率，新興債穩健走揚
1
資料來源：BofA，2026/7，中國信託業銀行整理，2026/8/25

新興債規模僅占全球債務的3成左右(兆美元)
美
國
成熟扣
除美國
新興不
含中國
中國

### Page 2

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
重點摘要 美國銀行 (Bank of America)預估2026~2027年美
國公債淨發行量將達2兆美元，以因應高額的財政支
出。相較於美國債務無限制擴張 ，雖然今年新興主
權債發行量達1915億美元亦處於歷史高位 ，但扣除
債券到期及提前買回後的淨發行量只有 1650億美元，
供給面衝擊性相對美國小許多 ，就算以市場預估全
年2583～2700億美元的總發行量來看 ，亦比美國
政府及或美國投資級企業債的發債規模低許多；根
據IMF預估，2026年前20大新興國家債務占GDP比
重約82%，遠低於G7國家的128%。
進一步觀察新興主權債初級市場發行細項 ，即使在
已開發國家長期融資成本持續上升的情況下 ，新興
主權國家超長期債券發行量也仍能保持穩定 ，無論

是投資級或非投資等級的發行人發債狀況均相對以
往強勁；除了投資人對初級市場債券需求仍高外 ，
目前新興主權國家的發債成本相較其長期歷史水準
來看並不算高 ，2008年金融海嘯前及 2022年美國
升息時期所面臨的利息成本都比目前的水準高出許
多，有利的發行條件也是造就新興債初級市場榮景
的原因之一。
新興主權國家審慎的財政政策讓新興債供給更為可
控，投資人對新興債所要求的風險貼水也沒有像大
規模發債的美國政府或是超大規模科技企業那樣升
高，使得新興主要貨幣主權債利差依然處於十年均
值之下。良好的基本面是本行近年持續看好新興債
的原因，許多主要投資於美國高評等債的共同基金
也持續增持新興主權債 ，沙烏地阿拉伯 、阿聯酋主
權債持有規模過去1年甚至翻倍增加，彰顯金融市場
對新興債強勁的投資需求。
重點摘要
• IMF預估2026年前 20大新興
國家債務占 GDP比重約 82%，
低於G7的128%
• 全球大發債時代更突顯新興
主權國家審慎財政政策優勢
2
資料來源：JP Morgan(2026/8/14)、Bloomberg，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/8/25

新興主權國家發債量並沒有跟隨美國大幅擴張
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
新興主權(左) 美國投資級企業(左) 比例(右)
發債量(十億美元)
發債比例均值

### Page 3

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
重點摘要 《貨幣政策牽引新當債正向看法》
金融市場同時也在關注央行的可信度 。穩定物價往
往是央行的首要任務 ，今年土耳其 、菲律賓、印尼、
南非等新興國家消費者物價指數 (CPI)年增率均超出
市場及央行原先預期 ，但僅印尼及菲律賓少數央行
採取緊縮貨幣政策 ，大部分決策者仍按兵不動 。所
幸目前通膨水準還在央行可容忍的範圍中 ，且5~6
月通膨數據已見放緩；即使目前中東地緣政治風險
又升溫、亦需同時留意潛在的政策滯後風險 ，但整
體新興市場通膨尚可控，也成為近1個月新興當地債
殖利率走勢與美債脫勾並逆勢走低的主要原因。
儘管美國最新公布的通膨數據暫時緩解聯準會升息
風險，但若升息預期持續 ，部分與美國利差較小且
對美國利率敏感度較高的新興當地債市恐較為脆弱 ，

這些國家主要集中在新興歐洲 ，但也因為新興當地
債殖利率走勢與其貨幣政策連動性較高 ，新當債走
勢也將更為分歧，那些央行立場偏鴿派的國家(如波
蘭、匈牙利)，以及那些通膨已有見頂跡象且實際政
策利率仍緊縮的國家 (如南非 、巴西)當地債殖利率
將較有機會回歸基本面而走低 ，當地債投資選擇將
更具策略性 ，對通膨壓力較大的亞洲當地債則暫維
持中性看法。
雖然美國無風險利率上升仍可能為債市帶來壓力 ，
但新興國家始於2023年的債信改善趨勢仍在延續 ，
決策者也多能因應經濟局勢而進行政策調整 ，新興
主要貨幣主權債接近7%的殖利率仍具吸引力，預期
在美國債務不斷膨脹的背景下 ，投資人仍有意願將
部分資金移往體質佳 、收益率也不差的標的 ，新興
主權債便可望因此受惠而有相對穩健的表現。
重點摘要
• 新興市場通膨穩趨穩 ，當地
債殖利率走勢回歸基本面
• 波蘭 、匈牙利 、南非 、巴西
當地債殖利率這些政策鴿派
或見頂２的國家將較有機會
走低
3
新歐及拉美國家當地債與美公債連動性較高
資料來源：BofA，2026/7/31，，中國信託商業銀行，2026/8/26

匈
牙
利
捷
克
波
蘭
墨
西
哥
哥
倫
比
亞
新
加
坡
智
利
香
港
秘
魯
南
非
羅
馬
尼
亞
泰
國
菲
律
賓
印
度
台
灣
馬
來
西
亞
巴
西
印
尼
中
國
土
耳
其
阿
根
廷
新興當地債殖利率與美公債beta值

### Page 4

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
重點摘要 《新興企業債務管理能力佳 ，資產負債表普遍穩健 》
不僅新興主權國家發債量能穩定 ，新興市場企業今
年以來共發行 3270億美元(統計至2026年7月底止)，
其中以韓國企業發行 461億美元債為最多 ，但就算
加上在韓國境內發行的約當 1610億美元的債券，總
發行量亦低於美國四大 CSP業者，更何況目前的發
債規模還是比2025年時要來得低。
此外，雖然中東企業近年成為債券初級市場常客 ，
但由於過往債務水準較低 ，因此就算是財務體質較
差的非投資級企業，平均淨槓桿率也只有1.4倍左右，
更不用說投資級企業更只有不到1倍、為新興市場企
業中最低，因此整體中東企業的平均債信自 2020年
時的BBB-不斷上升至 BBB+。也因此儘管今年美伊

衝突不斷 ，中東地區債券需求依然持穩 ，７月中東
企業共發行 80億美元債券 、高於過去5年均值60億
美元，其中又以沙烏地阿拉伯發行量達 30億美元為
大宗，累計今年中東非洲地區債券發量便達 900億
美元。
雖然發債量不低 ，但若從淨融資的角度來看 ，由於
亞洲企業今年大量提前買回先前發行成本較高的債
券，因此亞洲企業今年淨融資量為負值 ，使得整體
新興企業債今年淨融資規模只有 17億美元，突顯新
興市場企業負債管理能力 ，也因此這幾年中國以外
的新興市場企業資產負債表仍維持穩健 ，而中國地
產商近年也在房市泡沫大環境下持續調整財務政策 ，
再加上獲利動能的成長 ，新興市場企業總槓桿率一
直穩定在 2.4倍左右 ，淨槓桿率從 1.3倍略微下降至
1.2倍，即使是淨槓桿率最高的拉美 BBB級企業債
（2.2倍），仍低於美國整體投資級債的2.6倍。
• 新興市場企業今年發行 3270
億美元債 ，其中以韓國發債
量最高
• 中東投資級企業淨槓桿不到 1
倍，信評持續改善
• 新興市場企業總槓桿率持穩

穩在2.4倍左右 ，較美國投資
級企業低
4
資料來源：BofA，2026/8/2，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/8/25
新歐中東企業自2023年以來成為新債市主要發行機構
債券淨發行規模(十億美元）
-300000
-200000
-100000
0
100000
200000
300000
2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024 2026
亞洲 拉美 新歐中東 整體EM

### Page 5

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
重點摘要 《獲利成長有助債信改善，新興企業債各有利基》
繼2024和2025年實現獲利低個位數成長後 ，市場
普遍預期新興市場企業獲利將在 2026年顯著成長，
截至最新一季數據 ，營收及稅息折舊攤銷前利潤
(EBITDA)年增率分別為 13%及25%，而全年營收及
企業獲利預估將分別成長 15%及31%，主要是受惠
於科技製造業 、金屬礦業石油和天然氣２成以上的
EBITDA成長率 ，但其餘產業的增幅也多在 6~10%
間，與近年趨勢一致 。在科技製造業強勁成長動能
支持下，多家國際券商更預估新興市場投資級企業
淨槓桿率可望維持在1倍左右或甚至低於1倍以下。
不過目前新興企業債利差確實已來到相對低位 ，反
觀美國大規模資料中心業者近期利差擴大 ，部分投

資人擔憂美國科技債殖利率上升至近十年高點將對
新興債帶來排擠效應 。但投資人組成仍有差異 ，新
興企業債多為當地投資人因本土偏好(home bias)而
持有，成熟國家投資人配置比重雖上升但仍不高 ，
根據摩根大通 ，新興企業債中僅 10%左右由美歐機
構法人及基金持有 ，而單一全球債券基金對新興企
業債的曝險也僅2%左右，也因此即使出現規模較小
的資金流出 ，也無需大幅重新定價即可被市場消化 。
不過短期外在負面因子仍可能牽動企業債利差擴大 ，
包括美伊地緣政治風險 、市場對美國財政壓力的恐
慌，以及巴西即將來到的總統大選 ，不過這對新興
企業債信正向發展影響仍低 ，因此反而可藉機修正
偏貴的評價面 。鑑於總體經濟環境良好且企業獲利
成長強勁 ，本行仍看好 非投資級債對抗利率波動的
良好特性 ，而投資級債則可藉修正時期進行佈局 ，
以享受高殖利率優勢。
• 2026年新興市場企業全年營
收及企業獲利預估將分別成
長15%及31%
5
資料來源： BofA，2026/8，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/8/25

除了亞洲BB級企業外，新興企業槓桿率均低於美企
2.1x
0.0x
0.3x
1.3x
3.1x
2.2x
1.1x
1.5x
3.6x
2.5x
1.2x
7.2x
5.2x
2.4x
2.7x
4.7x
0.0x 2.0x 4.0x 6.0x 8.0x
A
BBB
BB
B
總槓桿(倍）
美國
拉美
新歐中東
亞太

---
## Document 354: 【金融產業攻略】ＡＩ企業資金需求躍升為美金融業營收成長催化劑

Source PDF: all report pdf/【金融產業攻略】ＡＩ企業資金需求躍升為美金融業營收成長催化劑.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
AI企業資金需求躍升為美金融
業營收成長催化劑
熱門議題 / 投資關鍵
• AI企業融資需求和市值成長在投
資銀行收入成長中發揮核心作用 pg1
• 市場預期股票市場成長依然強勁，
FICC市場成長放緩 pg2
• 規模效應、資產負債表彈性驅動
資本市場收入步入健康增長 pg2
• 存貸業務續成長，利息收入朝市
場樂觀預期發展 pg3
重點摘要
本月關鍵圖表
• 高盛預期投行三大業務呈週期
中期成長。科技(尤其是AI相關)
驅動股權市場，預估2026年美
國IPO籌資額創2,250億美元新
高。AI融資與併購復甦亦將引
領債權與諮詢業務，且今年迄
今過半的交易量與費用成長皆
由AI交易驅動。
• 市場預期股票市場仍會有亮眼
表現，因股票融資利差翻倍、

IPO回溫與個股波動率上升活絡
了市場。而FICC市場因低波動
限制了中介收入。
• 近年來資本市場因資產與股債
規模擴張、SLR改革及規模經濟
顯著成長，ROE隨之上升。高
盛預估2026至2028年成長將放
緩但仍維持健康增長。
市場投資展望
資產 4Q26看法 投資展望
金融 正向 AI驅動股債與併購復甦，資本市場將迎來週期中期健康成長，存貸款業務成長延續
1
《人工智慧(AI)基礎設施公司融資需求和市值的成
長在近期投資銀行收入成長中發揮了核心作用》
高盛預期投資銀行三大業務領域均會實現成長 ，並
處於週期中期。在諮詢業務方面，預期未來12個月
併購交易量將成長 19%；股權資本市場(ECM)方面，
近期成長主要得益於強勁的科技業 (尤其是 AI相關
產業)活動，其中科技類 ECM貢獻了年初至今成長
的約75%，高盛預期成長將持續 ，估計2026年美
國IPO籌資額將達到 2,250億美元的年度新高紀錄；
而債權資本市場 (DCM)的增長主要會由 2大因素推
動，(1)AI相關融資規模龐大 ，其中相當一部分預

計將轉化為 DCM的業務量 ，(2)基於對企業併購交
易量持正向看法 ，這亦將為 DCM提供強大支撐 。
因併購活動中有很大一部份會依賴債務融資。
高盛預估今年迄今為止，併購、股權資本市場和債
權資本市場交易量及費用的合計增長中，約有
分析師／陳嘉琳
研究範疇 金融／非核心消費
金融產業投資攻略
出 刊 日 : 2026/9/11
資料來源：GS，2026/9/8，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/9
預計2026年美國IPO總募資額將創新高紀錄
美國IPO總募資額(單位：10億美元)

### Page 2

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
吸納量
重點摘要
2
50~55%是由AI相關交易驅動的 。眼下Claude開發
商Anthropic何時上市就成為市場焦點 ，目前市場
推估最快10月中展開首次公開發行(IPO)的推介活動，
並可能在11月美國期中選舉前數日掛牌上市 。此案
被 視 為 史 上 規 模 最 大 的 IPO 案之一 ， 緊 接 在
Anthropic之後還會有OpenAI。
《市場預期股票市場成長依然強勁 ，固定收益 、外
匯及大宗商品(FICC)市場成長放緩》
銀行交易收入能否延續今年上半年強勁表現 ，其持
續性取決於市場水平 、融資利差和波動性 。從結構
上來看，可交易流通股數的增長帶動了交易量 ，進
而推升了客戶資金融通該持股所需的槓桿額度 ，通

常透過大宗經紀業務進行。
正向的週期性效益包括：股票融資利差是 2020年第
三季的三倍 ，反映出股票槓桿需求已超越產業產能；
首度公開發行(IPO)的回溫活絡了次級市場交易；個
股波動率升幅高於大盤指數波動率 ，為客戶創造更
大的超額報酬(Alpha)機會並提升參與度。故高盛預
期2026~2028年美國大型銀行股票市場複合年增長
率將達到 5~7%，但同期間 FICC市場的複合年增長
約為2~4%，這是因為市場波動性較低 ，限制了中
介活動。
《規模效應 、資產負債表彈性驅動資本市場收入步
入健康增長》
自 2019 年 以 來 資 本 市 場 收 入 加 速 成 長， 2019 至
2026年產業費用池複合年增率 (CAGR)將達 11%，
高盛預測 2026至2028年將放緩至 4%，雖說放緩但
仍維持健康增長 。這項成長主要歸功於可交易資產
池的擴張 ，以及全球債務和股權市場規模的擴大 ，
而非利潤率的提高，大型銀行交易資產自 2019年以
來成長約 110%，同期利潤率基本持平 。此外，自

2025年11月補充槓桿率 (SLR)改革實施以來 ，銀行
受惠於資產負債表更大的彈性 ，槓桿率 (平均資產 /
權益)在2019年到2026年上半年明顯上升 。同時，
經營槓桿上升帶來規模經濟效益 ，使資本市場業務
的效率比率 (營運成本/收入)下降，這是因為更高的
固定成本轉化為規模經濟效益 。最終，使資本市場
業務的股東權益報酬率(ROE)上升。

### Page 3

不做任何擔保，如有錯漏或疏忽，本行並不負任何法律責任。任何人因信賴此等資料而做出或改變投資決策，應審慎衡量本身之需求及投資之風險，並就投
資結果自行負責。未經本公司許可，本資料及訊息不得逕行抄錄、翻印或另作派發。本行以上市場資訊與分析，不涉及特定投資標的之建議。
吸納量
重點摘要
3
《存貸業務續成長 ，利息收入朝市場樂觀預期發展 》
摩根大通資料顯示3Q26(截至8/26)，大型銀行整體
貸款年增 7.3%(2Q26為7.3%)，動能延續 ，其中工
商貸款類正成長且加速 ，非銀行金融業貸款類正成
長略減速 。存款3Q26(截至8/26)年增6.3%，2Q26
為6.8%。整體來看，美大型銀行存貸款業務成長態
勢明確，有望實現市場對2026年淨利息收入成長的
樂觀預期。
資料來源：JPM，2026/9/8，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/9
美大型銀行存貸款業務續成長
資料來源：GS，2026/9/8，中國信託商業銀行整理，2026/9/9
資本市場收入預期步入健康增長
2010~2019

資本市場平均值
資
本
市
場
費
用
收
入
(10億美元)
投資銀行市場 交易市場
2020~2025
資本市場平均值
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
工商業貸款 非存款機構貸款 工商相關貸款 整體貸款
2Q26年增率(%) 3Q26年增率(%)

---
## Document 363: イラン情勢悪化でも中国経済の耐性は比較的高い ～エネルギー供給の安定確保の一方、企業物価上昇や大気汚染など｢副作用｣も顕在化～

Source PDF: all report pdf/イラン情勢悪化でも中国経済の耐性は比較的高い ～エネルギー供給の安定確保の一方、企業物価上昇や大気汚染など｢副作用｣も顕在化～.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Asia Trends

2026 年 9 月 9 日

1/4 
イラン情勢悪化でも中国経済の耐性は比較的高い 
～エネルギー供給の安定確保の一方、企業物価上昇や大気汚染など｢副作用｣も顕在化～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  西濵 徹 
（℡：050-5474-7495）

（要旨） 
○ 中国は、イラン情勢の悪化に伴う原油高や供給懸念に直面しているものの、ロシア産原油の
輸入拡大や調達先の多様化、国内石炭の活用などにより、他のアジア諸国に比べてエネルギ
ー供給面での耐性は比較的高い。一方で、政府は国家備蓄の取り崩しには慎重で、価格統制
によって家計への影響を抑えてきた。ただし、石炭火力の稼働率上昇により大気汚染が再燃
するなど、エネルギー安定供給を優先することの「副作用」も顕在化している。 
○ 企業部門では、商品市況の再上昇を背景に物価上昇圧力が再燃している。８月の生産者物価
は調達価格（前年比＋5.8％）、出荷価格（同＋3.8％）ともに伸びが加速し、原材料価格の
上昇が製品価格に転嫁される動きがみられる。ただし、内需の弱さから消費財への価格転嫁
は限定的であり、企業はコスト増を十分に吸収できない状況に直面している可能性がある。 
○ 家計部門では、燃料や生鮮食品を中心に生活必需品の価格が上昇しているものの、８月の消
費者物価上昇率は前年比＋0.8％、コアインフレ率も同＋1.0％にとどまり、政府目標の２％
前後を大きく下回っている。サービス物価も弱く、内需の力強さを欠く状況が続いている。
足元の人民元は米ドル高の一服やＡＩ・半導体関連輸出の好調、巨額の貿易黒字を背景に約
３年ぶりの高値圏にある。人民元高は輸出競争力を低下させる可能性がある一方、輸入イン
フレの抑制には寄与する。このため、当局は堅調な外需を見極めながら緩やかな人民元高を
容認する可能性があるものの、引き続き急激な上昇は避ける展開が続くとみられる。

【中国はイラン情勢悪化への耐性が比較的高い一方､｢副作用｣とも呼べる動きが顕在化】 
イラン情勢をきっかけとする原油高は、 世界的なインフレを招いている。イランによるホルムズ
海峡の事実上の封鎖を受けて、米国も逆封鎖に動いた結果、同海峡を取り巻く環境は悪化した。さ
らに、 米国とイランによる攻撃の応酬を受けて、 同海峡を航行する船舶は大幅に減少して供給懸念
も高まった。その後は、米国とイランによる停戦合意を受けて、原油高に一服感が出るなど落ち着
きを取り戻す動きがみられた。しかし、米国とイランの協議は平行線をたどるとともに、イランは
イエメンの親イラン勢力（フーシ派）を通じてバブ・エル・マンデブ海峡の封鎖を示唆する動きを
みせた。フーシ派はサウジアラビアに海上封鎖を宣言し、 サウジが主導する有志連合も武力で対応

### Page 2

2/4 
する方針を示したことで、 戦火が中東全体に拡大する懸念が高まった。８月には停戦期限が終了し
たことを受けて、米国はイランに対する経済的圧力を一段と強める動きをみせた。その後も、米国
とイランは散発的に攻撃を応酬させているほか、 フーシ派もサウジアラビアに攻撃をしかけており、
事態収拾の道筋はみえず、原油価格も再び上昇基調を強めている。 
供給懸念が高まったにもかかわらず、 中国政府は国家戦略備蓄の取り崩しに慎重な姿勢をみせて
きた。一方で、価格統制を通じて物価への影響を抑える戦略を取った。そのうえ、ウクライナ戦争
を受けて、 欧米などはロシアへの経済制裁を強化したものの、 中国はこうした動きに与せずロシア
産原油の輸入を拡大させてきた。さらに、ここ数年の米中摩擦が激化する背後で、中国は原油やＬ
ＮＧ（液化天然ガス）の調達多様化を図ってきたため、他のアジア諸国に比べて供給懸念に対する
耐性が比較的高い状況を維持してきた。加えて、 中国は一次エネルギーに占める石炭比率が６割を
上回るなど、石炭への依存が高く、国内において石炭の採掘が可能であることも相まって、エネル
ギーの安定供給を優先させた。なお、近年は習近平指導部が主導する「グリーン経済」の実現に向
けた取り組みもあり、 大気汚染問題は小康状態となってきたものの、 石炭火力の稼働率上昇を受け
て、足元では大気汚染が再燃するなど副作用が顕在化している。

【原油価格などの再上昇を受けて､企業部門では物価上昇圧力が再燃する動き】 
政府による価格統制の影響が及ばない企業部門においては、過去数ヵ月はイラン情勢の悪化を受
けた原油など商品市況の上昇に直面す
る展開が続いてきた。なお、米国とイラ
ンによる停戦合意を受けて、 その後は原
油高に一服感が出たことを反映して、 企
業部門が直面する物価も上昇圧力が後
退する動きがみられた。しかし、８月の
生産者物価（調達価格）は前年同月比＋
5.8％となり、前月（同＋5.5％）から再
び加速に転じ た（図１）。前月比も＋
0.3％と前月（同▲1.0％）から３ヵ月ぶ
りの上昇に転じており、 物価上昇圧力が
再燃している様子がうかがえる。非鉄金属など一部に物価が下落する動きがみられるものの、 燃料
関連のほか、幅広く素材・部材関連など原材料価格が上昇しており、川上段階において物価上昇圧
力が強まっている。 
川上段階で物価上昇圧力が強まっていることを反映して、生産者物価（出荷価格）も前年同月比
＋3.8％と前月（同＋3.5％）から伸びが加速している。前月比も＋0.4％と前月（同▲0.7％）から
３ヵ月ぶりの上昇に転じており、 原材料価格の上昇が製品価格に転嫁される流れがみられる。 ただ
し、 比較的価格転嫁を行いやすい生産手段 （前月比＋0.4％） に比べて、 内需の弱さが足かせとなる
形で消費財 （同＋0.2％） の上昇ペースは緩やかなものにとどまるなど、 川下段階への価格転嫁が難
図 1 生産者物価の推移

（出所）CEIC, 国家統計局より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成 
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
調達価格（前月比）
出荷価格（前月比）
調達価格（前年比）
出荷価格（前年比）
(%：前年比) (%：前月比)

### Page 3

3/4 
しい様子がうかがえる。もっとも、 消費財のうち日用品や生活必需品については出荷価格が下落し
ている一方、 耐久消費財は久々に上昇に転じており、 企業部門において原材料価格の上昇を製品価
格に転嫁せざるを得ない状況に直面している可能性がある。

【生活必需品で物価上昇もインフレ率は落ち着いた推移､当局は緩やかな人民元高を容認か】 
原油価格が再び上昇するなどエネルギーインフレが再燃しているほか、中国においても異常気象
の頻発や世界的な肥料価格の高騰などを理由に食料インフレの動きが強まっている。 こうしたなか、
８月のインフレ率（消費者物価上昇率）
は 前 年 同 月 比 ＋0.8 ％ と 前 月 （ 同 ＋
0.5％） から加速したものの、 ３月の全人
代（全国人民代表大会）で定められた
2026 年のインフレ目標 （２％前後） を大
きく下回る伸びが続く（図２）。前月比は
＋0.4％と前月（同▲0.1％）から４ヵ月
ぶりの上昇に転じており、ガソリン・軽
油などの燃料 （前月比＋6.6％） で大幅に
物価が上昇したほか、野菜（同＋5.5％）
や卵（同＋2.0％） 、豚肉（同＋1.3％） ・
牛肉 （同＋1.3％） など生鮮品を中心とする食料品価格も上昇するなど、 生活必需品で物価上昇圧力
が強まったことが影響している。なお、 食料品とエネルギーを除いたコアインフレ率は前年同月比
＋1.0％と前月（同＋0.9％）からわずかに伸びが加速しているものの、ヘッドライン同様に政府目
標を大きく下回る推移が続いている。前月比も＋0.1％と前月（同＋0.3％）から上昇ペースは鈍化
しており、 一部の消費財に価格転嫁の動きを反映して物価上昇圧力がかかっているものの、 サービ
ス物価は低迷する対照的な動きがみられる。 
金融市場においては、米ドル高の動き
に一服感が出ていること、世界的なＡＩ ・
半導体関連需要の旺盛さが輸出をけん引
するとともに巨額の貿易黒字を計上する
など対外収支を下支えしていることも追
い風に、人民元相場は緩やかに上昇して
約３年ぶりの高値となっている（図３） 。
人民元高は輸出競争力の低下を通じて外
需の足かせとなることが懸念されるもの
の、世界的に中国製品に対する旺盛な需
要を反映して輸出は堅調に推移してお
図 2 インフレ率(消費者物価上昇率)の推移

（出所）CEIC, 国家統計局より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成 
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
09 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
(%)
※点線はインフレ目標
コアインフレ率 インフレ率
図 3 人民元相場(対ドル)の推移

（出所）LSEG より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成 
6.6
6.7
6.8
6.9
7.0
7.1
7.2
7.3
7.4
7.5
25/1 25/5 25/9 26/1 26/5 26/9
(ドル/人民元) オンショア人民元 オフショア人民元
人民元高↑
人民元安↓

### Page 4

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
4/4 
り、 景気をけん引する展開が続いている （注１） 。 一方で、 人民元高は輸入物価を通じてインフレ圧
力を抑えることが期待されるため、 当局は外需の動向を見極めつつ、緩やかな人民元高を志向する
可能性が考えられる。とはいえ、当局が急激な人民元高を許容するとは見通しにくく、中銀（中国
人民銀行）による基準値設定などを注視する展開が続くであろう。 
以 上

注１ ９月８日付レポート「中国景気は引き続き外需にけん引される展開が続く」 
  （https://www.dlri.co.jp/report/macro/654903.html）

---
## Document 414: 企業物価は高止まり、川下への価格転嫁続く（26年8月企業物価指数） ～原油高再燃で、物価上昇圧力が長期化する可能性～

Source PDF: all report pdf/企業物価は高止まり、川下への価格転嫁続く（26年8月企業物価指数） ～原油高再燃で、物価上昇圧力が長期化する可能性～.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Economic Trends

2026 年 9 月 11 日

1/3 
企業物価は高止まり、川下への価格転嫁続く（26 年 8 月企業物価指数） 
～原油高再燃で、物価上昇圧力が長期化する可能性～ 
 経済調査部 シニアエグゼクティブエコノミスト  新家 義貴 
（℡：050-5474-7490）

（要旨） 
○ ８月の国内企業物価指数は前月比▲0.2％となったが、前年比では＋7.6％と３ヵ月連続で＋
７％台の高い伸びが続いた。企業段階の物価上昇圧力はなお非常に強い。 
○ 川上・川中では石油・石炭製品や合成樹脂に下落がみられる一方、プラスチック製品など川
下製品では価格上昇が続いている。原材料価格の上昇が一服しているにもかかわらず、既往
のコスト高の価格転嫁はなお進行中。 
○ こうした川下への価格転嫁は今後もしばらく続く可能性が高い。さらに、足元の原油高が続
けば、新たな川上からのコスト上昇圧力も加わり、企業物価は高止まりしやすい。 
○ 包装資材や物流費などのコスト増が時間差を伴って最終販売価格へ波及することで、年度後
半にかけて食料品や日用品を中心に消費者物価の上昇圧力が一段と強まる可能性が高い。引
き続き、物価上振れリスクへの警戒が必要。

1. 企業物価は高止まり、前年比＋７％台が続く 
日本銀行から公表された2026 年８月の国内企業物価指数は、前月比▲0.2％、前年比＋7.6％と
なった。前月比では４月以降続いてきた上昇がいったん途切れ、春先にみられた急速な価格上昇
には一服感がみられた。ただし、８月の下落には、電気・ガス料金支援の再開による電力・都市
ガス価格の低下が寄与した面も大きく、企業物価全体として上昇圧力が大きく後退したわけでは
ない。また、前年比では７月の＋7.7％から僅かな鈍化にとどまり、３ヵ月連続で＋７％台の非常
に高い伸びが続いている。企業段階での物価上昇圧力はなお強いとみるべきだろう。 
なお、企業物価指数は毎年８月分速報公表時に定期遡及訂正を行っており、前年１月以降につ
いて、速報後に入手した価格情報や遅れて報告された価格、後から確定した取引価格などがまと
めて反映される。今回の改訂でも過去の値が大きく修正されており、７月の国内企業物価は速報
時の前月比＋0.1％、前年比＋7.2％から、前月比＋0.4％、前年比＋7.7％へと大幅に上方修正さ
れている。化学製品やプラスチック製品、農林水産物など幅広い品目で上方修正がみられ、速報
時点でみられていた以上に、既往のコスト高の価格転嫁が強かった可能性が示唆される。

### Page 2

2/3 
前月比の内訳をみると、電力が前月比▲1.4％、都市ガスが同▲7.0％と政府の支援策の影響に
より大きく低下したほか、農林水産物が同▲2.3％、石油・石炭製品が同▲1.7％と下落した。一
方、非鉄金属は同＋1.9％、プラスチック製品は同＋1.0％、飲食料品は同＋0.3％と上昇してい
る。８月は総合では前月比マイナスとなったものの、企業段階の物価上昇圧力が幅広く後退した
わけではない。今回注目されるのは、石油化学関連の川上・川中価格が低下する一方で、その先
に位置するプラスチック製品などでは値上げが続いていることである。追加的な原料価格の上振
れは一服したものの、既往のコスト上昇の価格転嫁はなお続いており、その影響が川下へ広がっ
ていることが見てとれる。

2. 既往のコスト高は川下へ波及 
石油化学関連では、春先に生じた急激な価格上昇には一服感がみられる。石油・石炭製品は前
月比▲1.7％と、7 月の同▲2.7％に続いて２ヵ月連続で下落した。品目別では、７月に大きく下落
したナフサやエチレン、プロピレンは８月におおむね横ばい圏となる一方、キシレンは前月比
▲2.6％と引き続き下落した。４月に中東情勢の悪化を受けて急騰した石油化学関連の川上価格
は、７月に反落した後、８月も総じて落ち着いた動きとなっている。 
より明確な変化がみられたのは川中段階である。８月は合成樹脂が前月比▲1.7％、熱可塑性樹
脂が同▲2.9％となった。なかでも、ポリエチレンが同▲4.6％、ポリプロピレンが同▲2.3％、ポ
リスチレンが同▲2.3％と、主要な合成樹脂がそろって下落している。４月の川上価格急騰を受け
て５～６月には合成樹脂への価格波及が進んだが、７月に下落に転じ、８月にはその動きがさら
に明確になった。川上だけでなく、川中でも追加的なコスト上昇圧力はかなり弱まっている。 
これに対して、川下価格の動きは対照的である。プラスチック製品は８月も前月比＋1.0％と上
昇し、７月の同＋2.4％から上昇幅は縮小したものの、なお高い伸びが続いた。しかも、前年比で
（出所）日本銀行「企業物価指数」
110
115
120
125
130
135
140
23 24 25 26
国内企業物価指数（指数水準）
総平均
化学製品
プラスチック製品
20年=100
（出所）日本銀行「企業物価指数」
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
20 21 22 23 24 25 26
国内企業物価指数（ナフサ、指数水準）

### Page 3

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
3/3 
は＋11.2％と７月の＋10.1％から一段と伸びを高めている。川中の合成樹脂が明確に下落する一
方、その先のプラスチック製品では前年比上昇率がむしろ加速しており、川上・川中と川下の価
格動向の乖離が８月には一段と鮮明になった。 
中身をみても、価格上昇は消費財に比較的近い段階に広がっている。８月はプラスチックフィ
ルム・シートが前月比＋0.9％、プラスチック製中空成形容器が同＋2.1％、プラスチック製容器
が同＋1.5％、プラスチック製日用品が同＋1.1％となった。フィルム・シートや容器は加工食
品、飲料、日用品など幅広い商品の包装に用いられるほか、プラスチック製日用品はそれ自体が
最終消費財に近い。原材料段階では価格上昇が一服する一方、包装材や容器など最終需要に近い
段階では、その価格低下の影響はまだ十分に表れていない。 
これは、企業間の価格転嫁に時間差があることを改めて示している。原材料価格が低下したか
らといって、川下企業の仕入れコストが直ちに低下するわけではない。高値で調達した原材料の
在庫が残っているほか、取引価格の改定も一定の間隔で行われるためである。その結果、足元の
仕入れ価格だけでなく、数ヵ月前までの高い調達コストが現在の販売価格に反映されている企業
も多い。８月の「合成樹脂下落・プラスチック製品上昇」という組み合わせは、こうした価格転
嫁のタイムラグを端的に示すものといえる。

3. 川下への価格転嫁と原油高で、物価上昇圧力は長期化する可能性 
先行きについては、こうした川下への価格転嫁が今後もしばらく続く可能性が高い。企業ごと
に仕入れ時期や価格交渉、契約改定のタイミングが異なることに加え、企業が直面するコスト水
準そのものもなお高いためである。原材料価格の低下が川下価格の押し下げにつながるまでに
は、なお時間を要するだろう。 
加えて、足元では原油価格が再び大きく上昇しており、先行き、川上価格には再び上昇圧力が
かかる可能性がある。この動きが続けば、輸入物価や石油・化学関連価格を通じて企業物価を押
し上げる要因となる。為替が円高方向で推移していることは、こうした輸入コストの上昇を一定
程度和らげる要因になるが、現状程度の原油価格と為替レートを前提にすれば、円高による輸入
物価の押し下げよりも、原油高による押し上げの方が大きいとみられる。既往のコスト高の川下
転嫁がなお続くなか、足元の原油高による新たなコスト上昇が加わることで、企業物価は当面高
止まる可能性が高いだろう。 
消費者物価への影響にも注意が必要だ。先にみたように、プラスチックフィルムや容器など消
費財に近い段階で価格上昇が続いており、こうした包装資材や物流費などのコスト増が時間差を
伴って最終販売価格へ転嫁されるだろう。とりわけ食料品、日用品については年度後半にかけて
消費者物価指数への上昇圧力が強まる可能性が高い。 
筆者は消費者物価について、既往のコスト高の価格転嫁が進むことで、食料品、日用品、電
気・ガス代への上昇圧力が強まり、26 年末から27 年初にかけて前年比で＋３％を上回ると予想し
ているが、本日の企業物価指数は、こうしたシナリオと整合的な結果だったと考えている。当
面、物価の上振れリスクに警戒が必要な局面が続きそうだ。

---
## Document 477: 四半期見通し『米国～地政学リスクを跳ね返す力強い米国経済～』(2026年10月号)

Source PDF: all report pdf/四半期見通し『米国～地政学リスクを跳ね返す力強い米国経済～』(2026年10月号).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

米国
～地政学リスクを跳ね返す力強い米国経済～
トランプ政権の 「米国第一主義」 に基づく貿易 ・ 安全保障
政策の再構築が進み、 関税強化や不法移民の取り締まり
厳格化を通じて、 国内外の政策的 ・ 地政学的不確実性は極
めて高い水準にある。 特に中東情勢の緊迫化に伴うホル
ムズ海峡の事実上の封鎖は、 サプライチェーンの混乱や
原油価格の高騰 ・ 乱高下を招いている。 しかし、 足元の米
経済はAI関連を中心とするIT投資の急速な拡大がこれら
の下押し圧力を相殺し、 強い底堅さを維持している。
4-6月期の米国実質GDP成長率 （2次推計） は前期比年
率＋1.5％と、 1-3月期の同＋2.1％から減速した。 しかし、 成
長の中身をみると、 実質民間国内最終需要が前期比年率
＋4.2％ （1-3月期:同＋1.7％） 、 実質国内最終需要が同＋
3.3％ （同＋2.2％） へとそれぞれ大幅に加速しており、 米国
経済の内需は力強さを増している。
7-9月期に入っても景気の底堅さは健在である。 8月の

ISM製造業景気指数は54.6 （7月 ： 55.6） と小幅に低下した
ものの、 ISM非製造業景気指数は55.4 （7月 ： 54.1） へと上
昇し、 サービスセクターを中心とした景気の加速を示した。
労働市場においても安定した推移が続いている。 8月
の非農業部門雇用者数 （事業所調査） は、 前月差＋16.2万
人 （7月:同＋2.1万人） と大幅に加速した。 内訳をみると、 7
月に季節調整の歪み等から地方教員が大幅減少した反
動で、 政府部門が前月差＋3.5万人 （7月:同▲5.0万人） と
増加に転じた。 加えて、 イベン ト特需による減速からの持
地政学リ スク高まるなか内需とAI投資が下支え
ち直しによって民間部門は同＋12.7万人 （7月:同＋7.1万
人） と伸びを高めた。 雇用の基調を示す移動平均をみる
と、 非農業部門雇用者数の3カ月移動平均は前月差＋7.1
万人 （7月:同＋3.8万人） へと加速した。 民間部門に限って
も、 3カ月移動平均は前月差＋7.5万人 （7月:同＋5.3万人）

と加速した。 失業率 （家計調査） が4.1％と横ばいで推移し
たことなどを踏まえれば、 労働市場の安定基調が継続し
ていると判断される。
インフレ環境をみると、 7月のコアCPIは前年同月比＋
2.5％ （6月 ： ＋2.6％） と高水準で下げ渋っているものの、 3
カ月前対比年率で＋1.6％ （6月 ： ＋2.3％） 、 6カ月前対比年
率で＋2.4％ （6月 ： ＋2.6％） へと低下している。 これは、
FRBが目標とする2％に向けて基調的なインフレ率の低
下が再開していることを示唆している。
このような中、 7月のFOMCにおいて、 FRBはFFレー ト
誘導目標レンジを3.50～3.75％に5会合連続で据え置く
ことを決定した。 しかし、 採決結果は賛成9 ・ 反対3とタカ
派的な分裂が浮き彫り となった。 ハマッ ク （クリーブラン ド
連銀） 、 カシュカリ （ミネアポリス連銀） 、 ローガン （ダラス
連銀） の地区連銀総裁3名が、 即時の0.25％ （25bp） の利

上げを求めて据え置きに反対した。
今後の米国経済は、 関税政策による下押し圧力を積極
的な財政政策やAI投資が相殺し、 成長を後押しする構図
となる見込みである。 2026年2月の最高裁判決により国
積極財政が関税の押し下げ効果を相殺し堅調
経済調査部　主任エコノミス ト　桂畑 誠治（かつらはた せいじ）
資料1 米国労働情勢
（出所） 米労働省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
6.0
6.5
7.0
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
800
1000
21 22 23 24 25 26
（％）
非農業部門雇用者数(前月差、左)
民間部門雇用者数(前月差、左)
失業率(右)
（千人）
資料2 コアCPIの推移
（出所） 米労働省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
18 20 22 24 26
（％）
３ヵ月前対比年率
６ヵ月前対比年率
前年比
5 第一ライフ研レポー ト 2026.10

四半期見通し四半期見通し
四半期見通し

### Page 2

際緊急経済権限法 （IEEPA） に基づく関税が違法とされた
ことを受け、 政府は通商法122条 （一律10％の追加関税）
へ移行した。 その後、 2026年7月24日の通商法122条の
期限切れに伴い1974年通商法301条に基づく新関税枠
組みへと切り替わったことで、 実効関税率は7月時点で約
7.1～7.4％まで低下している （2025年の約14.4％から
大幅に低下。 なお、 2024年は2.4％） 。 これにより、 実質
GDP成長率への下押し効果は0.1～0.2％ポイン ト
（2025年は約0.5％ポイン トの押し下げ） にとどまる試算
である。
一方で、 2025年7月4日に成立した財政調整法
｢OBBBA(One Big Beautiful Bill Act)｣が経済成長を
強く後押しする。 同法は、 2017年の 「減税 ・ 雇用法
（TCJA） 」 の主要条項の延長や所得税 ・ 法人税の新たな減
税措置を含む一方で、 社会保障網プログラムの削減、 国
防 ・ 国境警備への支出増額などの歳出調整を盛り込んだ

法律である。 2025年から一部の措置が開始されている
が、 2026年に減税効果が最大化するため、 中間所得層を
中心に家計の実質所得を押し上げて個人消費の拡大を
支えると予想される。 さらに、 即時償却制度の拡大など投
資減税の恩恵によって設備投資の拡大も期待され、 これ
らが実質GDPを0.4～0.8％ポイン ト程度押し上げると見
込まれる。 結果と して、 関税による下押し圧力を上回る経
済の押し上げ効果が期待される。
財政調整法 （OBBBA） による経済牽引
2026年通期でみれば、 政府機関の活動再開による押
し上げや前述した減税効果、 AI投資によって、 米経済は堅
調な成長を維持する見通しである。 個人消費は、 物価高
の影響を受けつつも、 株価や不動産価格の上昇に伴う資
産効果、 および減税による手取り収入の増加に支えられ、
底堅く推移すると見込まれる。 設備投資は、 減税効果に加
え、 生成AIの急速な普及に伴うデータセンター整備や半
導体などのIT需要の拡大、 通商合意の進展による不確実

性の緩和、 製造業の国内回帰に向けた直接投資の増加な
どを背景に伸び率が加速すると見込まれる。 さらに、 主要
国とのパー トナーシ ップ再構築や通商合意を受けた農作
物やエネルギーの輸出拡大も期待される。
以上の要因から、 2026年の米国経済は潜在成長率
（約1.8～2.0％） を上回るペースを維持し、 通期で実質
GDP成長率＋2.2％と堅調さを維持する公算が大きい。
引き締め的な金融環境が残るなかでも、 労働市場は失業
率4.5％未満の歴史的にも安定した状態が続く と見込ま
れる。
他方、 インフレに関しては、 住宅関連費用の低下が続く
ものの、 原油価格の上昇や関税賦課の影響が徐々に川下
へ波及し、 緩やかに上昇する可能性が高い。 こう した底堅
い成長と根強いインフレが同居する環境下、 FRBは2026
年を通じてタカ派的な政策金利の据え置きを継続すると
予想される。
2026年は潜在成長率を上回りFRBの慎重姿勢持続
資料3 米国経済見通し （前年比、 ％）
（注） 図中カ ッコ内は寄与度

（出所） 米商務省、 予測は第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所
資料4 米国実質GDP成長率 （前期比年率）
（出所） 米商務省、 予測は第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所
6第一ライフ研レポー ト 2026.10
四半期見通し
四半期見通し

---
## Document 489: 宏观深度报告：如何看待本轮人民币汇率升值空间？

Source PDF: all report pdf/宏观深度报告：如何看待本轮人民币汇率升值空间？.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 20
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

证券研究报告·宏观报告·宏观深度报告

东吴证券研究所

2026 年 09 月 16 日

证券分析师  芦哲 
执业证书：S0600524110003 
 luzhe@dwzq.com.cn 
证券分析师  李沛 
执业证书：S0600526080003 
 lip@dwzq.com.cn

相关研究  
《供给改善，消费分层 ——8 月经济
数据点评》 
2026-09-15 
《9 月 FOMC 前瞻： 加息的N 种情景
假设——海外周报 20260914》 
2026-09-14

[Table_Tag]    
[Table_Summary]  核心观点：2026 年 9 月以来人民币汇率偏强运行，离岸价触及 6.70 关
口。美日联合干预日元后美元强势基础转弱，贸易顺差推动结汇韧性。
央行中间价调升释放牵引信号但逆周期因子转正平滑升值斜率。 市场分
歧如下： 一是中美利差倒挂较深背景下汇率仍升值， 主因经常账户贡献
及地缘安全溢价， 且剔除通胀的中美实际利率差倒挂有限； 二是升值对
出口影响较小，我国对美出口份额已降至 2026Q1 的 9%，人民币实际
有效汇率不高，近 60%外贸企业汇率影响可控；三是外资对国内权益
和债券配置分化。展望而言，海外流动性收敛背景下， 美元下行幅度受
限， 但年末季节性结汇预期仍有支撑。2026 年 Q4 人民币或在温和升值
基调下围绕 6.60—6.75 中枢双向波动；至 2027 年 3 月末，中性情形有
望运行至 6.63， 乐观情形或触及 6.58。参考历轮升值与央行逆周期调节
时点，中性假设下本轮升值终点区间 6.50-6.60，乐观视角可触及 6.45。 
 如何理解本轮人民币汇率升值？ 
 其一， 美元强势基础转弱， 非美货币受提振。7 月末以来美元指数自 101.6
回撤近 3%至 98.6。美日联合干预后， 8 月日本外汇储备消耗 947 亿美
元，日元升值近 7%，日元走强直接削弱美元强势基础。其二，外贸景
气叠加经常账户顺差，结汇韧性延续。 2026 年 8 月商业银行结汇顺差
为 485 亿美元，远高于 2010 年以来单月均值。1—8 月贸易顺差累计
8063 亿美元，远超过去 6 年同期均值 5200 亿美元；2026 年 Q2 经常账
户差额 1951 亿美元， 远高于2010 年单季均值 705 亿美元。其三， 央行
中间价连续调升释放牵引信号， 但逆周期因子系统性转正。引导升值斜
率更为平滑，侧面映射市场供需力量更多推动汇率走向温和升值。 
 人民币基本盘：有管理的浮动汇率制+国际收支“两顺两逆” 
 汇率可视为法定货币的外部价格，本质为内外经济基本面的综合映射。
当前中国实行有管理的浮动汇率制度，国际收支呈“两顺两逆”格局：
经常账户顺差、资本与金融账户逆差；货物贸易顺差、服务贸易逆差。
2026 年 8 月，央行外汇占款余额 21.7 万亿元，官方外储 3.4 万亿美元。 
 本轮人民币汇率升值的市场分歧 
 第一，为何中美利差倒挂下仍持续升值？ 本轮人民币升值周期未伴随
美元大幅走贬、中美利差回正或收敛， 国内基本面也仅平缓复苏，主因
在于全球 AI 资本开支高景气下经常账户支撑及美元信用受损下的地缘
安全溢价、中美经贸磋商进展及人民币国际化推进提振。且中美 10Y 实
际利率差仅约-150bp，远小于名义利差。第二，升值是否对出口形成压
力？ 对美出口份额已从 2018 年 9 月的 20.7%降至 2026 年 Q1 的 9.17%，
出口目的地多元化；人民币实际有效汇率仍然低估， 同时外贸企业汇率
对冲扩大，近 60%外贸企业受汇率影响可控。 央行行长潘功胜表示， 中
国无意通过汇率贬值获取贸易竞争优势。第三， 外资对股债配置趋势如
何？ 2023 年起外资股债配置分化。2024 年 8 月—2026 年 6 月外资持
有境内股票由 2.48 万亿元升至 4.66 万亿元；2026 年 1—9 月外资对中
债整体净减持。2024 年 Q3-2026 年 H1，人民币境外存款回流与 A 股走
强同步， 但汇率升值终点往往滞后于权益高点。民间部门国际净头寸近
一年转正，但海外资产头寸仍累积，私人部门对外投资收益改善。 
 多维度推演人民币汇率本轮升值空间 
 第一，历史两轮升值周期趋势判断。过去两轮升值周期极值从 2018 年
3 月的 6.25 至 2022 年 2 月的 6.31。 考虑内外经济周期差异未显著收敛、
美元下行受限，本轮升值终点在 6.50 附近， 乐观可触及6.45。第二， 央
行逆周期调节时点回溯后续推演。参考 2017 年 9 月与 2020 年 10 月央
行下调远期售汇外汇风险准备金率后汇率运行，按波幅均值， 中性假设
下终点为 6.55-6.60， 乐观视角可至 6.45。第三， 汇率升值动力模型公式。
至 2027 年 3 月末，中性视角有望触及 6.63，乐观情形有望触及 6.58。 
 风险提示：（1）国际地缘摩擦超预期；（2）美联储加息节奏超预期；（3）
国内经济修复不及预期。

### Page 2

2 / 20

内容目录 
1. 如何理解本轮人民币汇率升值 .......................................................................................................... 4 
1.1. 美元强势基础转弱，非美货币受到提振................................................................................. 4 
1.2. 外贸景气叠加经常账户顺差，企业结汇韧性延续................................................................. 4 
1.3. 央行对中间价连续调升，释放牵引信号................................................................................. 5 
2. 人民币基本盘—有管理的浮动汇率制+国际收支“两顺两逆” ........................................................ 6 
3. 本轮人民币汇率升值的市场分歧 ...................................................................................................... 9 
3.1. 为何人民币汇率在中美利差倒挂背景下持续升值？............................................................. 9 
3.2. 人民币升值是否将对出口形成压力？................................................................................... 11 
3.3. 本轮升值周期外资对股债配置趋势如何？........................................................................... 12 
4. 多维度推演人民币汇率本轮升值空间 ............................................................................................ 15 
4.1. 以过去两轮人民币汇率运行周期进行趋势判断................................................................... 15 
4.2. 从央行外汇逆周期调节时点看升值空间............................................................................... 16 
4.3. 基于人民币升值汇率动力模型公式....................................................................................... 17 
5. 风险提示 ............................................................................................................................................ 19

### Page 3

3 / 20

图表目录 
图 1： 美元指数主要构成....................................................................................................................... 4 
图 2： 美元兑日元及日本外汇储备....................................................................................................... 4 
图 3： 商业银行结售汇顺差................................................................................................................... 5 
图 4： 中国经常账户顺差与贸易顺差................................................................................................... 5 
图 5： 美元兑人民币汇率中间价........................................................................................................... 5 
图 6： 央行逆周期因子大致测算........................................................................................................... 5 
图 7： 人民币汇率运行的三轮周期....................................................................................................... 6 
图 8： 汇率、利差与国际收支的内在长期平衡机制........................................................................... 7 
图 9： 经常账户和资本金融账户........................................................................................................... 7 
图 10： 货物贸易顺差与服务贸易逆差................................................................................................. 7 
图 11： 国际收支平衡表，亿美元 ......................................................................................................... 8 
图 12： 中国央行资产负债表，亿元..................................................................................................... 9 
图 13： CFETS 人民币汇率指数.......................................................................................................... 10 
图 14： 中美国债利差和权益表现....................................................................................................... 10 
图 15： 中美两国实际利率相差不大................................................................................................... 10 
图 16： 中国出口总额中对美出口份额............................................................................................... 11 
图 17： 通胀调整后的人民币实际有效汇率并不高........................................................................... 11 
图 18： 人民币结算占代客涉外收支占比均接近 50% ...................................................................... 12 
图 19： 跨境贸易人民币业务结算规模............................................................................................... 12 
图 20： 外资持有境内股票和债券....................................................................................................... 13 
图 21： 10Y 中债利率与人民币汇率 ................................................................................................... 13 
图 22： 外资对中债持有量边际变化与 10Y 中美利差 ...................................................................... 13 
图 23： USDCNH 与沪深 300 股权风险溢价 ..................................................................................... 14 
图 24： 人民币境外存款和创业板的阶段跷跷板............................................................................... 14 
图 25： 近一年中国民间部门国际投资净头寸整体回正................................................................... 14 
图 26： 中国金融机构外汇存款........................................................................................................... 14 
图 27： 私人部门对外投资收益........................................................................................................... 15 
图 28： 海外资产头寸仍然累积........................................................................................................... 15 
图 29： “8·11 汇改”后人民币汇率运行的三轮周期 ........................................................................... 15 
图 30： 央行外汇逆周期调节工具使用情况....................................................................................... 16 
图 31： 离岸人民币汇率掉期 SWAP ................................................................................................... 17 
图 32： 离岸人民币资金利率............................................................................................................... 17 
图 33： 结售汇的季节性....................................................................................................................... 18 
图 34： 三种情境假设下的人民币汇率升值动力评分....................................................................... 18

### Page 4

4 / 20 
1.   如何理解本轮人民币汇率升值 
2026 年 9 月国际油价超预期上行， 欧日美流动性整体收敛， 但人民币汇率在此背景
下呈现较强韧性， 美元兑离岸人民币汇率触及 6.70 关口，9 月 10 日盘中一度报收 6.704。 
1.1.   美元强势基础转弱，非美货币受到提振 
7 月末至今美元流动性整体处于阶段顺风期，美元指数自 101.6 回撤近 3%至 98.6。
同期国际油价整体反弹，Jackson Hole 年会后联储货政预期边际转鹰，美债利率中枢上
移， 但美元在日元干预影响下延续偏弱震荡格局。2026 年 7 月末美元兑日元触及 164 关
口， 随后美日联合实施外汇干预。2026 年 8 月日本外汇储备消耗 947 亿美元， 日元至今
升值近 7%，美元兑日元至 9 月 12 日报收 153。从 ICE 美元指数构成来看，欧元、日元
与英镑的权重分别为 57.6%、13.6%与 11.9%， 三者合计占比达到83%。日元走强时， 美
元强势基础受到削弱。当前欧日央行加息节奏整体领先于美联储，叠加市场对美国债务
可持续性担忧升温，美元信用受损逻辑催化，美元指数上行空间受限。 
图1：美元指数主要构成  图2：美元兑日元及日本外汇储备

数据来源：ICE，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：日本财务省，ICE，东吴证券研究所

1.2.   外贸景气叠加经常账户顺差，企业结汇韧性延续 
在升值预期下， 出口商将海外留存美元收益结汇， 形成正反馈循环。2026 年 4-8 月
商业银行结汇顺差分别为 400.8 亿美元、357.9 亿美元、566.6 亿美元、182.6 亿美元与
484.8 亿美元。 虽较年初明显回落， 但仍远高于2010 年以来单月均值 66 亿美元的水平。
2026 年 1-8 月，我国贸易顺差累计值为 8063 亿美元，远高于过去 6 年 1-8 月累计贸易
顺差均值 5200 亿美元。2026 年 Q2， 国内经常账户差额为1951 亿美元， 远高于2010 年
单季度均值 705 亿美元，与贸易顺差数据趋势整体向好。

57.6
13.6 11.9 9.1 4.2 3.6
ICE美元指数构成 %
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
160
170
8000
8500
9000
9500
10000
10500
11000
11500
12000
12500
13000
日本:外汇储备 亿美元 美元兑日元[右轴]

### Page 5

5 / 20 
图3：商业银行结售汇顺差  图4：中国经常账户顺差与贸易顺差

数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所

1.3.   央行对中间价连续调升，释放牵引信号 
2025 年 4 月 15 日-2026 年 9 月 15 日，美元兑人民币汇率中间价自 7.2096 运行至
6.7628，央行对人民币中间价调升幅度为 4468pips。 据测算， 央行逆周期因子自2026 年
初系统性转正， 指向央行在引导汇率升值斜率往更平缓的方向运行，侧面映射市场供需
力量更多推动汇率走向温和升值。 
图5：美元兑人民币汇率中间价  图6：央行逆周期因子大致测算

数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所

-600
-100
400
900
2018-08
2019-02
2019-08
2020-02
2020-08
2021-02
2021-08
2022-02
2022-08
2023-02
2023-08
2024-02
2024-08
2025-02
2025-08
2026-02
2026-08
银行自身结售汇顺差 亿美元
银行代客结售汇顺差 亿美元
银行结售汇:顺差 亿美元
-500
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
2006-06
2007-06
2008-06
2009-06
2010-06
2011-06
2012-06
2013-06
2014-06
2015-06
2016-06
2017-06
2018-06
2019-06
2020-06
2021-06
2022-06
2023-06
2024-06
2025-06
2026-06
中国:经常项目差额:当季值 亿美元
中国:贸易差额:当季值 亿美元
-800
-600
-400
-200
0
200
400
600
800
6
6.2
6.4
6.6
6.8
7
7.2
7.4
USDCNY:美元兑人民币中间价
美元兑人民币中间价:环比变化[右轴] pips
6.0
6.5
7.0
7.5
-1,500
-1,000
-500
0
500
1,000
逆周期因子估测 pips
美元兑人民币:离岸价 [右轴]

### Page 6

6 / 20

从离岸价的绝对点位来看，本轮升值周期始于 2025 年 4 月对等关税落地后的起点
7.42，2025 年末美元兑人民币汇率离岸价突破 7.0，2026 年 2 月末触及 6.82，2026 年 9
月初触及 6.70 关口。2026 年 4 月 7 日至今，反映人民币对一篮子货币汇率变动的 CFETS
人民币汇率指数上升 7.8%，但人民币兑美元离岸汇率升值近 10%。2026 年 2 月 27 日，
央行宣布自 3 月 2 日起将远期售汇外汇风险准备金率从 20%下调至 0，旨在应对升值速
率过快，防止单边一致预期，同时降低企业远期购汇成本。历史规律显示，准备金率调
降主要调节汇率短期升值斜率， 中期运行方向仍取决于内外经济周期差。 至9 月 12 日，
10Y 中美国债利差来到 320bp 倒挂的历史高位， 这侧面折射了内外经济周期差以及资本
与金融账户逆差格局的延续。 
图7：人民币汇率运行的三轮周期

数据来源：中国央行，美联储，Wind，东吴证券研究所整理

2.   人民币基本盘—有管理的浮动汇率制+国际收支“两顺两逆” 
汇率可以视为法定货币的外部价格， 本质为该国经济基本面的综合映射。 汇率的比
价一定程度可反映两国价值量的相对情况。汇率决定理论中， 主流理论包括利率平价定
律、 国际收支定律、 购买力平价理论等。 利率平价理论对于汇率中短期波动解释力更强，
从利差视角到预测汇率的方向。 国际收支理论则主要跟随贸易发展而产生， 讨论国际收
支情况与汇率的关联性。 购买力平价则认为两国汇率水平与两国物价情况关联较高， 但
该理论更适用于长期的指引。2015 年“8·11”汇改后，双向波动常态化。人民币受美
元与美联储政策的外部影响， 同时亦反映国内经济预期与央行政策平衡， 中美利差又是
内外周期差的侧面映射。 
目前中国央行汇率实行有管理的浮动汇率制度。 作为发展中国家， 中国需要相对稳
定的汇率水平以维持经济运行的预期平稳。 独立的货币政策、 浮动汇率制度及一定程度
的资本管制， 这样的组合可以在应对海外金融危机外溢冲击时， 维护汇率稳定的同时仍
保留货币政策对经济的自主调控能力。

### Page 7

7 / 20

图8：汇率、利差与国际收支的内在长期平衡机制

数据来源：东吴证券研究所整理

我国国际收支整体呈 “两顺两逆” 基本格局。国际收支账目表分为经常账和资本账。
根据 IMF《国际收支和国际投资头寸手册》第六版，国际收支平衡表是反映某个时期内
一个国家或地区与世界其他国家或地区间的经济交易的统计报表。2020 年开始， 我国保
持 “经常账户顺差， 资本与金融账户逆差” 及 “货物贸易顺差， 服务贸易逆差” 的格局。
中国经常账户的顺差为国际收支顺差的主要来源， 而货物贸易项又是经常账户顺差的主
要拉动，所以出口创汇成为人民币汇率支撑的重要来源。 
图9：经常账户和资本金融账户  图10：货物贸易顺差与服务贸易逆差

数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所 
-2500
-1500
-500
500
1500
2500
中国:差额:经常项目:当季值 亿美元
中国:差额:资本和金融项目:当季值 亿美元

### Page 8

8 / 20

经常账户与国际贸易活动关联，受本国出口景气度影响。2020 年-2025 年，我国经
常账户顺差分别录得 2237 亿美元、2974 亿美元、4041 亿美元、2570 亿美元、4623 亿
美元与 7350 亿美元； 而资本与金融账户呈现逆差格局， 六年数据分别录得-901 亿美元、
-2184 亿美元、-3541 亿美元、-2445 亿美元、-4616 亿美元与-7735 亿美元。而经常账户
中，货物贸易 2020 年-2025 年顺差值分别为 5005 亿美元、5367 亿美元、6509 亿美元、
6000 亿美元、8091 亿美元和 10605 亿美元； 同期服务贸易整体呈现逆差，6 年具体数据
分别为-1670 亿美元、-1307 亿美元、-1125 亿美元、-2208 亿美元、-2550 亿美元与-2381
亿美元。 
资本与金融账户主要反映跨境资本流动。其中，直接投资指“以投资者寻求在本国
以外运行企业获取有效发言权为目的的投资”，相关投资工具可划分为股权和关联企业
债务；证券投资指“包括证券投资资产和证券投资负债”， 相关投资工具可划分为股权和
债券。通常来说， 直接投资的资金流入偏中长期， 而证券投资与其他投资项更多是对短
期跨境资本流向的映射，类似我们提到的“热钱 Hot Money”。如外资持有境内债券和股
票的变动影响短期资本流动，并与内外利差变化呈现同向趋势。2022 年-2025 年，联储
激进加息周期的开启，中美利差倒挂程度加深，资金面临一定流出的压力，人民币汇率
表现承压。2022 年-2025 年，我国资本与金融账户下的非储备性质金融账户分别录得-
2573 亿美元、-2393 亿美元、-5238 亿美元和-8201 亿美元。 证券投资项亦整体呈现逆差，
四年数据分别录得-2891 亿美元、-578 亿美元、-1792 亿美元与-4256 亿美元。 
图11：国际收支平衡表，亿美元

数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所

### Page 9

9 / 20

央行外汇占款统计在 《货币当局资产负债表》中， 外国资产项目下的外汇资产，其
变动对于负债方基础货币的投放产生影响。据央行口径，截至 2026 年 8 月，央行外汇
占款余额为 21.72 万亿元。2026 年 8 月，我国官方外汇储备余额为 34383 亿美元。 
图12：中国央行资产负债表，亿元

数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所 
注：截至 2026 年 8 月

3.   本轮人民币汇率升值的市场分歧 
3.1.   为何人民币汇率在中美利差倒挂背景下持续升值？ 
和以往汇率升值周期不同的是， 本轮升值并未伴随美元的大幅走贬、 中美利差的回
正甚至倒挂程度的收敛。 同时， 国内经济基本面整体呈现平缓斜率复苏格局， 并非超预
期强劲。这说明本轮决定人民币汇率升值的主要逻辑在于经常账户的支撑、 人民币资产
的真实需求、美元信用受损背景下的中国资产的地缘安全溢价。

项目  金额 项目 金额
国外资产 231,818 储备货币（基础货币） 401,814
国外资产：央行外汇占款 217,248 储备货币：货币发行 152,892
国外资产：黄金 5,244 储备货币：非金融机构存款 25,644
国外资产：其他 9,326 储备货币：其他存款性公司存款 223,279
对政府债权 21,346 不计入储备货币的金融性公司存款 6,481
其中：中央政府 21,346 债券发行 2,400
对其他存款性公司债权 213,399 国外负债 2,096
对其他金融性公司债权 3,851 政府存款 62,541
对非金融公司债权 / 自有资金 220
其他资产 28,154 其他负债 23,015
总资产 498,567 总负债 498,567

### Page 10

10 / 20

图13：CFETS 人民币汇率指数  图14：中美国债利差和权益表现

数据来源：CFETS，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所

其一，2025 年 10 月中美经贸磋商取得进展，外部经贸环境回稳，汇率风险溢价收
敛。美国最高法院裁定特朗普关税政策违法，显著降低中国对美出口关税成本，增强升
值动能。人民币国际化稳步推进——跨境结算比例提升、货币互换扩容、离岸市场工具
完善，强化人民币资产吸引力。截至2026 年 H1，境外主体持有的境内人民币资产已超
过 11 万亿元，80 多个国家和地区的央行或货币当局已将人民币纳入外汇储备。其二，
受全球 AI 资本开支高景气的推动，中国强劲的贸易顺差使得结汇韧性一直维持高位。
其三， 虽名义利差相差较大，但中美两国的实际利率相差不大。至 2026 年 9 月，中美
10Y 实际利率的倒挂值大概为 150bp， 远小于同期限两国320bp 以上的名义利差倒挂值。 
图15：中美两国实际利率相差不大

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所测算 
6
6.5
7
7.580
85
90
95
100
105
110
2016-09
2017-09
2018-09
2019-09
2020-09
2021-09
2022-09
2023-09
2024-09
2025-09
2026-09
CFETS人民币汇率指数
即期汇率:美元兑离岸人民币 [逆序, 右轴]
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
5,500
6,000
-350
-250
-150
-50
50
150
250
350
2019-03
2019-09
2020-03
2020-09
2021-03
2021-09
2022-03
2022-09
2023-03
2023-09
2024-03
2024-09
2025-03
2025-09
2026-03
2026-09
10Y中-美国债利差 bp 沪深300 [右轴]
-2.5
-1.5
-0.5
0.5
1.5
2.5
3.5
4.5
中国实际利率测算: 10Y % 美国实际利率TIPS: 10Y  %

### Page 11

11 / 20

3.2.   人民币升值是否将对出口形成压力？ 
人民币升值一方面源于外贸景气的推动，但汇率的走强对出口并不一定构成压力。
当前中国出口目的地多元化， 对美出口份额下降， 通胀调整后的人民币实际有效汇率并
不高。 
其一，我国出口中对美出口份额已从 2018 年 9 月的 20.72%下降至 2026 年 Q1 的
9.17%，对非美发达经济体及东盟等新兴经济体的出口份额抬升。出口目的地多元化降
低了对单一市场的依赖， 这意味着即使对美元相对升值， 对整体出口的影响是较为有限
的。 
其二， 当前我国平衡内外通胀因素的 BIS 实际有效汇率指数仍然偏低，这意味着
即使汇率整体走强， 但由于物价水平相对海外显著偏低， 综合下来出口商品在国际市场
仍然具备较强竞争力。2026 年 7 月人民币实际有效汇率指数和名义有效汇率指数分别
报收 92.72 和 114.29。 
图16：中国出口总额中对美出口份额   图17：通胀调整后的人民币实际有效汇率并不高

数据来源：中国海关总署，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：BIS 国际清算银行，东吴证券研究所

其三，多维度数据反映外贸企业汇率对冲覆盖面正在扩大。1）2026 年 8 月，人民
币结算占代客涉外收支占比均接近 50%。2026 年 8 月，涉外代客支出中人民币结算占
比为 52.07%，涉外代客收入中人民币结算占比为 47.69%。2）2026 年 H1，企业利用外
汇衍生品管理汇率风险的签约规模接近 1.4 万亿美元，同比增长 40%；企业外汇套保比
率达到 35.3%，比 2025 年全年提高 5.3 个百分点。3）近 60%的外贸企业受汇率影响是
相对可控的。2026 年 1—8 月，货物贸易人民币收付总额 10.36 万亿元，占同期本外币
跨境收付总额比重达三成。以外币开展结算的，外汇套期保值的比率为 30%左右。

8
10
12
14
16
18
20
22
中国出口总额中对美出口份额占比 %
80
90
100
110
120
2015-08
2016-08
2017-08
2018-08
2019-08
2020-08
2021-08
2022-08
2023-08
2024-08
2025-08
2026-08
实际有效汇率指数:人民币
名义有效汇率指数:人民币

### Page 12

12 / 20

图18：人民币结算占代客涉外收支占比均接近 50%  图19：跨境贸易人民币业务结算规模

数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所

从央行官方表态来观察， 可以判断即使汇率温和升值， 外贸的结构升级以及企业跨
境避险工具的使用将使得出口仍然维持一定韧性。2026 年 8 月，G20 召开今年第二次
财长和央行行长会议，中国央行行长潘功胜在发言时提到，中国没有必要， 也无意通过
汇率贬值获取贸易竞争优势。近年来， 随着出口结构转型升级，企业议价能力和汇率风
险管理能力不断增强，中国贸易对汇率敏感性大幅下降。同时，外贸企业更多使用汇率
避险工具， 人民币在贸易结算中占比不断提升， 进一步降低了贸易对汇率波动的敏感性。
中国实施有管理的浮动汇率制度， 坚持市场在汇率形成中的决定性作用， 同时防范市场
“羊群效应”和非理性预期的自我强化。

3.3.   本轮升值周期外资对股债配置趋势如何？ 
根据央行口径，2023 年开始， 外资对股债的配置开始分化。2018 年 Q2-2021 年 Q4，
外资对股债整体均呈现增配，其中境外投资者对境内股票持有金额由 1.28 万亿元升至
3.94 万亿元；境外投资者对境内债券持有金额由 1.65 万亿元升至 4.09 万亿元。2022 年
至 2023 年末，外资对股债整体减持，而权益资产的减配主要源于海外加息流动性快速
收紧下国内权益市场的偏弱表现。2024 年-2026 年， 外资对权益再度增配，2024 年 8 月
-2026 年 6 月，境外机构和个人持有境内股票值由 2.48 万亿元上升至 4.66 万亿元。同
期，债券资产在股债跷跷板效应下吸引力相对下降，2025 年 4 月-2026 年 4 月，外资对
境内债券的持有规模由 4.49 万亿元下降至 3.16 万亿元。

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2012-08
2013-08
2014-08
2015-08
2016-08
2017-08
2018-08
2019-08
2020-08
2021-08
2022-08
2023-08
2024-08
2025-08
2026-08
代客涉外支出:人民币结算比重 %
代客涉外收入:人民币结算比重 %
0
5000
10000
15000
20000
中国:跨境贸易人民币业务结算金额:货物贸易 亿元
中国:跨境贸易人民币业务结算金额 亿元

### Page 13

13 / 20

图20：外资持有境内股票和债券

数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所

人民币汇率和中债共同受益于国内经济基本面的改善， 从该维度理解， 二者理论上
呈现一定负向性。例如 2017 年和 2020 年， 我们看到人民币汇率升值与债券利率上行的
共存。 而近两年开启的本轮人民币升值并未伴随债券利率的大幅走高， 这也侧面印证国
内经济基本面仍然处于偏弱复苏格局。相反，2026 年以来资产呈现股债汇共振走强格局，
这与 2021 年时期股债汇三牛的资产演绎存在类似之处。但在 2022 年-2024 年，美元兑
人民币汇率均一度运行至 7.3 关口附近，汇率的趋贬压力又对国内央行降息空间形成约
束。2026 年 1-9 月，外资对中债整体净减持 3048 亿元。 
图21：10Y 中债利率与人民币汇率  图22：外资对中债持有量边际变化与 10Y 中美利差

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所

0.5
1
1.5
2
2.5
3
3.5
4
4.5
5
2018-06 2019-06 2020-06 2021-06 2022-06 2023-06 2024-06 2025-06 2026-06
境外机构和个人持有:中国境内股票 万亿元
境外机构和个人持有:中国境内债券 万亿元
6.0
6.5
7.0
7.5
1
2
3
4
5
2014-09
2015-09
2016-09
2017-09
2018-09
2019-09
2020-09
2021-09
2022-09
2023-09
2024-09
2025-09
2026-09
中国:中债国债到期收益率:10年 %
USDCNH:即期汇率[右轴]
-400
-300
-200
-100
0
100
200
300
-4000
-3000
-2000
-1000
0
1000
2000
3000
2018-09
2019-04
2019-11
2020-06
2021-01
2021-08
2022-03
2022-10
2023-05
2023-12
2024-07
2025-02
2025-09
2026-04
外资持有中国资产:债券:环比增加 亿元
中美10Y国债利差 bp[右轴]

### Page 14

14 / 20 
人民币汇率与权益资产共同受益于跨境资本流动与经济基本面景气回暖。从历轮周
期来看， 汇率和A 股的运行往往顺周期共振，但汇率升值终点往往滞后于权益高点。例
如 2017 年、2020 年-2021 年。同时，沪深 300 的权益风险溢价 ERP 与人民币汇率离岸
价之间具备明显负向性。以本轮为例，2024 年 9 月 13 日， 沪深300ERP 一度触及 7.20%，
彼时 A 股触底， 美元兑人民币汇率在7.0 上方的趋贬区间。2024 年 9 月-2026 年 H1，受
益于美联储宽松周期开启、外贸景气和国内经济基本面的企稳回升，A 股和人民币共振
走强。从人民币境外存款规模观测，2021 年末至 2024 年 8 月，人民币境外存款规模由
1.3 万亿元上升 8000 亿至 2.1 万亿元， 同期A 股处于偏弱运行周期。2024 年 Q3 至 2026
年 H1， 人民币境外存款有所回流， 同期A 股走强， 指向国内权益资产回报吸引力上升。 
图23：USDCNH 与沪深 300 股权风险溢价  图24：人民币境外存款和创业板的阶段跷跷板

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：中国央行，沪深交易所，东吴证券研究所

中国民间部门国际净头寸近一年转正， 但海外资产头寸仍然累积，私人部门对外投
资收益有所改善。从中国金融机构外汇存款来看，2023 年 9 月-2026 年 8 月，金融机构
外汇存款从 0.78 万亿美元上升至 1.19 万亿美元。 
图25：近一年中国民间部门国际投资净头寸整体回正   图26：中国金融机构外汇存款

数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所

6
6.2
6.4
6.6
6.8
7
7.2
7.4
7.6
0
2
4
6
8
2015-09
2016-09
2017-09
2018-09
2019-09
2020-09
2021-09
2022-09
2023-09
2024-09
2025-09
2026-09
沪深300 ERP %
美元兑离岸人民币USDCNH[右轴]
1000
1500
2000
2500
3000
3500
4000
4500
11000
13000
15000
17000
19000
21000
人民币存款结构: 境外存款 亿元 创业板指[右轴] 点
-25000
-20000
-15000
-10000
-5000
0
5000
2011-03
2012-03
2013-03
2014-03
2015-03
2016-03
2017-03
2018-03
2019-03
2020-03
2021-03
2022-03
2023-03
2024-03
2025-03
2026-03
中国:国际投资头寸:净头寸(不含储备资产) 亿美元
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
50
0
2000
4000
6000
8000
10000
12000
2016-08
2017-08
2018-08
2019-08
2020-08
2021-08
2022-08
2023-08
2024-08
2025-08
2026-08
中国:金融机构:外汇存款 亿美元
中国:金融机构:外汇存款:同比[右轴] %

### Page 15

15 / 20

图27：私人部门对外投资收益  图28：海外资产头寸仍然累积

数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：国家外汇管理局，东吴证券研究所

4.   多维度推演人民币汇率本轮升值空间 
4.1.   以过去两轮人民币汇率运行周期进行趋势判断 
过去两轮人民币汇率趋贬周期的极值点位分别为 2017 年 1 月的 6.97、2020 年 5 月
28 日的 7.18 与 2026 年 4 月 8 日的 7.42，整体呈现两轮 2000pips 扩大趋势。而从升值
周期的极值点位来看，2018 年 3 月 26 日的 6.25 到 2022 年 2 月 25 日的 6.31， 本轮升值
终点最乐观可渐进升值至 6.40-6.50 关口，但考虑本轮内外经济周期差并未显著收敛，
中美利差倒挂程度仍然达到 320bp， 美元下行幅度受限。 我们认为本轮升值终点为6.50
附近，乐观假设下可触及 6.45。 
图29：“8·11 汇改”后人民币汇率运行的三轮周期

数据来源：中国央行，上交所，东吴证券研究所整理 
-1500
-1000
-500
0
500
1000
2015-03
2016-03
2017-03
2018-03
2019-03
2020-03
2021-03
2022-03
2023-03
2024-03
2025-03
2026-03
中国:贷方:经常账户:初次收入:投资收益 亿美元
中国:借方:经常账户:初次收入:投资收益 亿美元
中国:差额:经常账户:初次收入:投资收益 亿美元
-2600
-2100
-1600
-1100
-600
-100
400
900
1400
2015-06
2016-06
2017-06
2018-06
2019-06
2020-06
2021-06
2022-06
2023-06
2024-06
2025-06
2026-06
中国:差额:金融账户:非储备性质的金融账户 亿美元
中国:差额:资本和金融账户 亿美元

### Page 16

16 / 20

4.2.   从央行外汇逆周期调节时点看升值空间 
2026 年 2 月 27 日， 中国央行宣布自2026 年 3 月 2 日起， 将远期售汇业务的外汇
风险准备金率从 20%下调至 0。此举主要应对跨年时期 2025 年 12 月 1000 亿美元商业
银行结汇顺差历史高位之下，人民币汇率升值速率较快，为防止市场单边一致预期的形
成，央行决定降低企业远期购汇成本，平抑短期汇率升值斜率。 
回顾来看，2017 年 9 月和 2020 年 10 月央行同样将外汇风险准备金率由 20%下调
至 0%。当时处于汇率升值周期的中段，且处于国内权益市场走牛的中期。2017 年 9 月
-2018 年 3 月，美元兑人民币汇率由 6.44 运行至 6.25，汇率波动幅度近 2000pips，2017
年国内经济基本面整体较强，当年为特朗普总统上一任期的首年，欧洲经济偏强叠 加
特朗普医疗税改推行不畅，美国经济预期偏弱，美元在 FOMC 加息周期下不升反降，
中国出口强劲，内外积极因素支撑人民币升值，A 股处于“漂亮 50”牛市周期。 
2020 年 10 月汇率在央行相同的逆周期工具调节下并未明显走贬，至 2022 年 2 月
汇率由 6.68 运行至 6.31， 波动幅度近3700pips。当时中-美国债呈现正利差， 外资增配、
出口持续超预期的结汇动能叠加国内经济先于海外复苏下的盈利改善，汇率明显升值，
国内权益亦处于结构牛周期。  
按波动幅度的平均值来看，以美元兑离岸人民币衡量，中性假设下，本轮升值终点
将在 6.55-6.60 区间，乐观假设下，有望升值至 6.45。 
图30：央行外汇逆周期调节工具使用情况

数据来源：中国央行，东吴证券研究所整理

同样，与趋贬周期对应，如果人民币汇率短期升值压力过大，不排除央行在适时使
用以下稳外汇逆周期调节工具平抑汇率短期运行斜率：上调外汇存款准备金率、 下调跨
境融资宏观审慎调节参数、启动逆周期因子、口头干预等。

汇率管理工具 首推年限 RMB贬值时 RMB升值时 最新宣布调整日 当前运用情况
   外汇存款准备金率 2005年 下调↓ 上调↑ 20230915 下调2个百分点至4%
远期售汇风险准备金率 2015年 上调↑ 下调↓ 20260227 由20%下调至0
跨境融资宏观审慎调节参数 2016年 上调↑ 下调↓ 20250113 全口径上调至1.75
离岸央行票据发行 2018年 增发 - 20260213 500亿元
 离岸掉期市场干预 2018年 提升离岸做空成本 - - -
口头干预 - - - 202608 央行2026年Q2货币政策报告
 逆周期调节因子 2017年 - - 2026Q1 可能启用

### Page 17

17 / 20 
4.3.   基于人民币升值汇率动力模型公式 
外部来看，当前美债利率与美元指数走势分化， 前者更多反映美联储货币政策预期，
后者更多展现与欧日经济基本面及干预行为结果。美伊冲突持续使得全球原油库存低位，
油价中枢难系统性下行。在此背景下，8 月美国劳动力市场和通胀数据整体强于预期，
市场对联储加息概率定价提升。据最新 CME FedWatch 定价，2026 年 12 月议息会议及
之前累计加息 50bp 概率近 100%。因此，在海外流动性预期整体收敛背景下，我们认为
美元虽强势基础转弱，但大幅下行空间亦有限。但展望至 2027 年上半年，美国 CPI 同
比在高基数的背景下可能回落，因此联储货币政策紧缩的持续性大概率不及 2022 年。
因此人民币汇率在 2027 年仍有温和升值的窗口期。

图31：离岸人民币汇率掉期 SWAP  图32：离岸人民币资金利率

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所  数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所

内部因素来看， 结汇动能叠加地缘安全溢价仍有支撑，贸易顺差推动结汇需求的走
高有望对人民币汇率形成支撑。从节奏看，四季度人民币汇率将以“偏强运行、双向波
动”为主基调。单边趋势性升值的概率较低，更可能呈现阶梯式上行与阶段性回调交替
的格局。从国际收支看，2026 年上半年，我国经常账户顺差 3794 亿美元，其中，货物
贸易顺差 5263 亿美元， 服务贸易逆差1120 亿美元。 资本和金融账户逆差3832 亿美元；
非储备性质的金融账户逆差 2608 亿美元。从驱动力的切换看，不同逻辑对人民币汇率
的定价权重已发生变化。 出口景气和经常账户顺差对汇率的权重正在系统性上升， 而金
融账户的边际影响力阶段性下降， 尤其是利差驱动的证券投资。出口韧性和经常账户顺
差将继续提供支撑， 但中美利差和金融账户逆差将限制升值空间。近半年央行逆周期因
子整体为正， 指向市场力量仍偏向温和升值。 年末需观察季节性结汇与海外流动性收敛
的博弈，预计汇率围绕 6.6-6.75 中枢双向波动。从政策视角看，央行“控速率、不控方
向”的立场为人民币将提供有序升值的制度保障。

0
2
4
6
8
10
CNH HIBOR:隔夜 % CNH HIBOR:1周 %
CNH HIBOR:2周 %

### Page 18

18 / 20

图33：结售汇的季节性

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所

供需视角来看，企业结汇规模在汇率 6.7-7.0 关口已有集中释放，预计 2026 年年末
结汇需求将弱于 2025 年末。站在 2026 年 9 月中旬时点， 我们认为未来半年人民币汇率
仍有温和升值空间，至 2027 年 3 月末，中性情形下美元兑人民币离岸汇率有望运行至
6.63 关口，乐观情形下有望触及 6.58。 
图34：三种情境假设下的人民币汇率升值动力评分

数据来源：Wind，东吴证券研究所

6
6.2
6.4
6.6
6.8
7
7.2
7.4
2015-09
2015-12
2016-03
2016-06
2016-09
2016-12
2017-03
2017-06
2017-09
2017-12
2018-03
2018-06
2018-09
2018-12
2019-03
2019-06
2019-09
2019-12
2020-03
2020-06
2020-09
2020-12
2021-03
2021-06
2021-09
2021-12
2022-03
2022-06
2022-09
2022-12
2023-03
2023-06
2023-09
2023-12
2024-03
2024-06
2024-09
2024-12
2025-03
2025-06
2025-09
2025-12
2026-03
2026-06
2026-09
2026-12
2027-03
美元兑人民币汇率USDCNH 美元兑人民币汇率USDCNH-乐观预测
美元兑人民币汇率USDCNH-中性预测 美元兑人民币汇率USDCNH-悲观预测

### Page 19

19 / 20

5.   风险提示  
1. 国际地缘摩擦超预期： 美伊地缘冲突仍存在不确定性， 油价走势可能引发资产价
格波动加大。  
2. 美联储加息节奏超预期： 美国就业和通胀的阶段韧性或美联储货币政策延续鹰派，
美债利率易上难下。  
3. 国内经济修复不及预期：关注国内物价低位与地产价格边际回落对预期的影响。

### Page 20

免责及评级说明部分

东吴证券投资评级标准 
投资评级基于分析师对报告发布日后 6 至 12 个月内行业或公司回报潜力相对基准表现
的预期（A 股市场基准为沪深 300 指数，香港市场基准为恒生指数，美国市场基准为标普 
500 指数， 新三板基准指数为三板成指 （针对协议转让标的） 或三板做市指数 （针对做市转
让标的），北交所基准指数为北证 50 指数），具体如下： 
公司投资评级： 
买入：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准在 15%以上； 
增持：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于 5%与 15%之间； 
中性：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于-5%与 5%之间； 
减持：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准介于-15%与-5%之间； 
卖出：预期未来 6 个月个股涨跌幅相对基准在-15%以下。 
行业投资评级： 
增持： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对强于基准 5%以上； 
中性： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对基准-5%与 5%； 
减持： 预期未来 6 个月内，行业指数相对弱于基准 5%以上。 
我们在此提醒您， 不同证券研究机构采用不同的评级术语及评级标准。 我们采用的是相
对评级体系， 表示投资的相对比重建议。 投资者买入或者卖出证券的决定应当充分考虑自身
特定状况， 如具体投资目的、 财务状况以及特定需求等， 并完整理解和使用本报告内容， 不
应视本报告为做出投资决策的唯一因素。 
东吴证券研究所 
苏州工业园区星阳街 5 号 
邮政编码：215021 
传真：（0512）62938527 
公司网址： http://www.dwzq.com.cn

---
## Document 491: 宏观经济月报：月度GDP重回目标区间

Source PDF: all report pdf/宏观经济月报：月度GDP重回目标区间.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 14
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

S0980513100001
基础数据
固定资产投资累计同比 -7.20
社零总额当月同比 0.40
出口当月同比 25.00
M2 7.50
市场走势
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
相关研究报告
《宏观经济月报-寻找放缓中的结构性亮点》 ——2026-08-18
《宏观经济月报-“杠铃”政策应对“K 型”分化》——2026-07-16
《宏观经济月报-内冷外热——经济修复的“温差”》 ——
2026-06-16
《宏观经济月报-3月更接近“真相”》 ——2026-04-17
《宏观经济月报-经济回升的“地基”仍待夯实》——2026-03-16
8 月工业增加值改善超出季节性，带动月度 GDP走出超跌区间，回升至
4.5%附近。隐忧在于，随着算力链对经济增长的拉动放缓，存量政策能
否及时落地带动投资（及相关生产）企稳对冲。总体而言，我们对下半
年经济读数并不悲观，即使增量政策缺位，预计全年增速仍将不低于
4.6%。
工业增加值同比增长 5.2%，较上月回升 0.7 个百分点，但改善的持续性

需观察。一方面，改善的关键或在于外生冲击消退，而非内生动能增强。
采矿业降幅由-4.2%收窄至-1.4%是一大亮点，受高温多雨天气扰动减
弱、煤矿安全事故后的集中整改逐步转入常态化监管提振。另一方面，
增速企稳后的隐忧不改，即 AI产业链对工增的带动作用可能持续减弱。
高技术制造业工业增加值同比边际放缓至 16.7%，电子通信业固投增速
同步回落 6.7个百分点。海外算力需求仍处高位，但增势放缓，特别是
从 8 月出口数据看，集成电路等出口数量增速已经转负，对生产的拉动
效应由正转负。
在 AI链对经济增长的拉动放缓的背景下，内需尚不足以接棒。一方面，
固定资产投资尚未形成趋势性修复。8月固定资产投资同比下降 10.5%，
降幅虽有所收窄，但制造业、基建投资降幅仍分别扩大 1.6、0.1 个百
分点。虽然房地产投资降幅收窄，但商品房销售继续走弱，“828”新
政中期可能带来新一轮产能去化。另一方面，压制消费的关键因素仍未
改善。社零增速回落至 0.4%，汽车和金银珠宝构成主要拖累，通讯器材

和家电的较好表现则仍依赖政策支持。1-8 月服务零售累计同比延续放
缓，在碳基资产与就业持续承压的背景下，居民消费内生动能短期难以
改善。
存量政策的加速集中落地将成为经济增长动能修复的重要抓手。一是财
政贴息后的 8000 亿元新型政策性金融工具已开始投放，且资金成本低
于 2%，带动专项债发行使用提速，投资可能率先企稳。二是个人消费贷
款贴息、智能家居促消费及汽车以旧换新等政策继续发力，有助于稳定
大宗消费基本盘。三是不可忽略去年下半年低基数翘尾效应对经济读数
的技术性托举。
目前看，即使在政策不加力的情况下，全年实现增长目标无虞，预计全
年 GDP增速将不低于 4.6%。后续需要重点关注三个方面：①专项债和政
策性金融工具能否加快形成实物工作量，推动投资企稳回升；②采矿业
特别是煤炭开采的整改能否在年底天气转冷前放宽；③金融条件持续收
紧的背景下，海外资本开支是否会导致外需出现陡峭拐点，对我国算力
出口形成“数量+价格”的双重制约。
风险提示：政策刺激力度减弱，海外经济政策不确定性。

2026年09月16日

### Page 2

内容目录
月度 GDP 重回目标区间 .......................................................... 4
就业：季节性承压 ......................................................................5
生产端：“K型分化”放缓 .............................................................. 6
需求端：投资—修复趋势仍待确认 ........................................................8
需求端：消费—内生动能仍弱 ............................................................9
需求端：进出口—延续高增 .............................................................10

风险提示 ..................................................................... 12

### Page 3

图表目录
图1： 中国实际 GDP月度同比增速测算 ........................................................ 5
图2： 商品和服务社零累计同比均呈下行趋势 .................................................. 5
图3： 当前财政资金仍较为宽裕 .............................................................. 5
图4： 8 月国内调查失业率上升，劳动力市场季节性承压 .........................................6
图5： 工业增加值和高技术产业增加值同比 .................................................... 6
图6： 中国工业增加值定基指数历年环比增速 .................................................. 6

图7： 采矿业、制造业、公用事业增加值当月同比一览 .......................................... 7
图8： 主要产品产量当月同比与前月同比的差值一览 ............................................ 7
图9： 服务业生产指数同比走势一览 .......................................................... 8
图10： 中国固定资产投资完成额同比增速一览 ................................................. 8
图11： 中国固定资产投资完成额环比增速一览 ................................................. 8
图12： 房地产开发、制造业、基建、其他投资同比增速一览 ..................................... 9
图13： 房地产开发、制造业、基建、其他投资环比增速一览 ..................................... 9

图14： 房地产销售面积和销售额同比增速一览 ................................................. 9
图15： 中国社会消费品零售总额同比增速一览 ................................................ 10
图16： 中国社会消费品零售总额环比增速一览 ................................................ 10
图17： 商品销售金额同比变化幅度一览 ...................................................... 10
图18： 出口金额同比增速 .................................................................. 11
图19： 出口金额季节性变化 ................................................................ 11

图20： 分商品出口金额当月同比情况 ........................................................ 11
图21： 分国别出口金额当月同比 ............................................................ 11

### Page 4

月度 GDP 重回目标区间
8 月工业增加值改善超出季节性，带动月度 GDP走出超跌区间，回升至 4.5%附近。
隐忧在于，随着算力链对经济增长的拉动放缓，存量政策能否及时落地带动投资
（及相关生产）企稳对冲。总体而言，我们对下半年经济读数并不悲观，即使增
量政策缺位，预计全年增速仍将不低于 4.6%。
工业增加值同比增长 5.2%，较上月回升 0.7个百分点，但改善的持续性需观察。
一方面，改善的关键或在于外生冲击消退，而非内生动能增强。采矿业降幅由-4.2%
收窄至-1.4%是一大亮点，受高温多雨天气扰动减弱、煤矿安全事故后的集中整改
逐步转入常态化监管提振。另一方面，增速企稳后的隐忧不改，即 AI 产业链对工
增的带动作用可能持续减弱。高技术制造业工业增加值同比边际放缓至 16.7%，
电子通信业固投增速同步回落 6.7个百分点。海外算力需求仍处高位，但增势放
缓，特别是从 8 月出口数据看，集成电路等出口数量增速已经转负，对生产的拉
动效应由正转负。
在 AI 链对经济增长的拉动放缓的背景下，内需尚不足以接棒。一方面，固定资

产投资尚未形成趋势性修复。8 月固定资产投资同比下降 10.5%，降幅虽有所收窄，
但制造业、基建投资降幅仍分别扩大 1.6、0.1个百分点。虽然房地产投资降幅收
窄，但商品房销售继续走弱，“828”新政中期可能带来新一轮产能去化。另一方
面，压制消费的关键因素仍未改善。社零增速回落至 0.4%，汽车和金银珠宝构成
主要拖累，通讯器材和家电的较好表现则仍依赖政策支持。1-8 月服务零售累计
同比延续放缓，在碳基资产与就业持续承压的背景下，居民消费内生动能短期难
以改善。
存量政策的加速集中落地将成为经济增长动能修复的重要抓手。一是财政贴息后
的 8000 亿元新型政策性金融工具已开始投放，且资金成本低于 2%，带动专项债
发行使用提速，投资可能率先企稳。二是个人消费贷款贴息、智能家居促消费及
汽车以旧换新等政策继续发力，有助于稳定大宗消费基本盘。三是不可忽略去年
下半年低基数翘尾效应对经济读数的技术性托举。
目前看，即使在政策不加力的情况下，全年实现增长目标无虞，预计全年 GDP增
速将不低于 4.6%。后续需要重点关注三个方面：①专项债和政策性金融工具能否

加快形成实物工作量，推动投资企稳回升；②采矿业特别是煤炭开采的整改能否
在年底天气转冷前放宽；③金融条件持续收紧的背景下，海外资本开支是否会导
致外需出现陡峭拐点，对我国算力出口形成“数量+价格”的双重制约。

### Page 5

图1：中国实际 GDP月度同比增速测算
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理和测算
图2：商品和服务社零累计同比均呈下行趋势 图3：当前财政资金仍较为宽裕
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
就业：季节性承压
8 月份全国城镇调查失业率录得 5.3%，较上月上升 0.1个百分点；31 个大城市调
查失业率同步升至 5.3%，较上月上升 0.1个百分点。1—8 月份，全国城镇调查失
业率均值为 5.2%，与去年同期一致。从历史季节性规律来看，2018-2023 年同期
失业率多为环比下行，而近两年均上升 0.1个百分点，本月数据的边际走弱符合
疫情后季节性规律，表明当前劳动力市场总体平稳。

### Page 6

图4：8 月国内调查失业率上升，劳动力市场季节性承压
资料来源：WIND、国信证券经济研究所整理
生产端：“K 型分化”放缓
8 月规模以上工业增加值同比增长 5.2%，较上月回升 0.7 个百分点，与去年同期
持平；1-8月累计增长 5.3%，较去年同期（+6.2%）下降 0.9个百分点。从环比看，
8 月回升 0.5%，工业生产表现强于季节性，生产活跃度温和提升。
与此同时，高技术产业增加值增速仍明显高于整体水平，但差距有所收窄，8 月
录得 16.7%，较上月回落 0.2个百分点，“K 型分化”边际放缓。
图5：工业增加值和高技术产业增加值同比 图6：中国工业增加值定基指数历年环比增速
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理，若无特殊说明，本报
告中“疫前”指 2017-2019年，“近年”指 2023-2025年
分三大门类看，采矿业同比降幅显著收窄，制造业同比回升，公用事业同比增速
延续放缓。采矿业增加值同比回落 1.4%，降幅较上月收窄 2.8个百分点；制造业

增长 6.1%，较上月回升 0.6个百分点；电力、燃气及水的生产和供应业增长 4.9%，
较上月回落 0.1个百分点。除高温多雨天气扰动减弱外，煤炭开采和洗选、化学

### Page 7

原料和化学制品制造等传统行业生产活动有所修复，是工业增速回升的重要原因。
图7：采矿业、制造业、公用事业增加值当月同比一览
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
分产品看，8 月消费链相关的乙烯产量同比涨幅较上月大幅回升 3.5 个百分点至
3.6%；投资相关的水泥产量同比降幅较上月扩大 0.1个百分点至-11.7%；高端工
业品增速表现分化，其中汽车产量同比增速回落 2.6个百分点至-2.7%；集成电路
边际放缓0.1个百分点至20.6%；工业机器人产量显著上升4.4个百分点至34.6%。
图8：主要产品产量当月同比与前月同比的差值一览
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
服务业生产方面，8月国内服务业生产指数同比增长 4.1%，较上月回落 0.2 个百
分点，较去年同期下降 1.5个百分点；1-8月累计增长 4.7%，同样低于去年同期

### Page 8

的 5.9%。
图9：服务业生产指数同比走势一览
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
需求端：投资—修复趋势仍待确认
8 月国内固定资产投资同比下降 10.5%，降幅较 7 月收窄 2.3个百分点；1-8月累
计下降 7.2%，降幅较 1-7月扩大 0.5个百分点。从环比看，8 月固定资产投资增
速显著高于近年同期季节性水平，表明投资活动或释放底部信号，但能否形成修
复趋势仍待观察。
图10：中国固定资产投资完成额同比增速一览 图11：中国固定资产投资完成额环比增速一览
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
从投资活动分项看，8 月房地产投资同比下降 25.4，较 7 月降幅边际收窄 2.1 个
百分点；制造业和基建投资同比增速分别回落 1.6、0.1个百分点至-6.0%、-14.8%。
从环比看，以上投资活动分别较今年同期回升 4.3、回落 0.1、回升 1.3 个百分点，
投资活跃度下降趋势有所放缓。

### Page 9

图12：房地产开发、制造业、基建、其他投资同比增速一览 图13：房地产开发、制造业、基建、其他投资环比增速一览
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
8 月国内商品房销售同比增速降幅走扩。销售额同比增速较上月回落 3.3 个百分
点至-12.1%，销售面积回落 1.2个百分点至-14.7%，或表明居民购房信心及需求
修复仍不足，房地产市场仍处于调整阶段。与此同时，1-8 月全国二手房交易网
签面积同比增长 10.6%，表明购房需求或更多向价格相对较低、交付确定性更强
的存量房转移。
图14：房地产销售面积和销售额同比增速一览
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
需求端：消费—内生动能仍弱
8 月社会消费品零售总额当月同比为 0.4%，较 7 月同比增速小幅回落 0.2个百分
点。其中商品零售为 0.3%，回落 0.2个百分点；餐饮为 1.1%，回落 0.3 个百分点。
从环比来看，8 月社零同比弱于同期季节性水平，表明消费修复动能仍待巩固。

### Page 10

图15：中国社会消费品零售总额同比增速一览 图16：中国社会消费品零售总额环比增速一览
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
8 月商品零售同比增速整体相较上月走弱。从不同类别商品的销售表现来看：耐
用品方面，建筑装潢消费降幅收窄 2.4个百分点至-11.8%，汽车消费较上月降幅
进一步扩大1.5个百分点至-18.5%，家电音像消费增速回升4.2个百分点至2.3%；
消耗品表现分化，服装鞋帽、饮料消费增速回升，粮油食品回落，日用品与上月
持平。此外，金银珠宝零售额降幅显著扩大 7.4个百分点至 17.5%，与 8月 COMEX
黄金价格上涨 9.7%表现分化，或受中东冲突反复下居民对黄金饰品消费持谨慎观
望态度影响。
图17：商品销售金额同比变化幅度一览
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
需求端：进出口—延续高增
8 月出口增速继续抬升，价格驱动 AI硬件高增。8月出口金额录得 4014.41亿美
元，当月同比增长 25.0%。较 7月的 23.9%提高 1.1个百分点；1-8月出口累计同

比增长 19.4%，较 1-7月的 18.5%进一步走阔，出口总量仍保持较强韧性。

### Page 11

出口高增的背后主要有三方面因素。
一是基数效应，去年月出口同比仅增长 4.2%，在一定程度上抬高了今年 8 月的读
数。二是全球制造业景气回升叠加 AI 产业链高景气，对我国出口形成支撑。8 月
全球制造业 PMI由 52.1回升至 52.3，外需保持韧性；同时 AI相关资本开支维持
高位，韩国 8月出口表现强劲，也印证全球半导体和 AI产业链景气度较高，我国
相关中下游制造业亦持续受益。三是“白海豚”短期扰动消退后，出口存在一定
技术性修复。台风“白海豚”一度对部分沿海港口出运造成影响，随着上海、宁
波舟山等华东沿海主要港口作业恢复，前期积压货物集中出运，对 8 月出口形成
一定支撑。
图18：出口金额同比增速 图19：出口金额季节性变化
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
区分商品看，科技品和部分中间品领涨，传统品类表现相对温和。集成电路、自
动数据处理设备和手机出口同比分别增长 129.8%、76.5%和 29.6%，成品油增长
80.5%，汽车及底盘增长 43.0%；玩具、鞋靴和箱包分别增长 15.3%、11.4%和 11.1%，

低于出口整体增速，陶瓷产品同比下降 25.7%。
区分国别看，对美出口明显加速，新兴市场继续提供增量。对美国出口同比增长
34.4%，较 7 月的 17.0%大幅提高；对韩国、俄罗斯、东盟出口分别增长 49.3%、
38.7%和 30.2%。对欧盟出口仅增长 6.6%，较 7 月的 16.0%明显回落，主要经济体
需求仍呈分化。
图20：分商品出口金额当月同比情况 图21：分国别出口金额当月同比
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理

### Page 12

展望后续，随着低基数和前期积压货物集中出运等阶段性支撑减弱，四季度增速
中枢将逐步回落。第一，随着去年同期基数逐步抬升，低基数对同比增速的支撑
将明显减弱，而四季度反而会有高基数压制（AI进出口行情于去年四季度启动）。
第二，当前 AI硬件链的高景气更多体现为价格上涨，例如集成电路等品类仍呈现
明显“量缩价升”，说明出口金额的快速增长尚未充分转化为实物需求的同步扩
张；当“量缩价升”转向“量价齐升”时，需求才能被验证，本轮外需改善的持
续性才会更强。第三，临近美国中期选举，AI 产业链还面临更高的政策不确定性，
围绕财政支出、芯片产业补贴、数据中心电力和用水审批、AI监管以及对华先进
芯片和算力设备出口限制的政策分歧均可能扰动企业扩产和资本开支预期，对后
续我国相关硬件出口形成一定压力。
风险提示
政策刺激力度减弱，海外经济政策的不确定性。

### Page 13

证券研究报告
免责声明
分析师声明
作者保证报告所采用的数据均来自合规渠道；分析逻辑基于作者的职业理解，通过合理判断并得出结论，
力求独立、客观、公正，结论不受任何第三方的授意或影响；作者在过去、现在或未来未就其研究报告
所提供的具体建议或所表述的意见直接或间接收取任何报酬，特此声明。
国信证券投资评级
投资评级标准 类别 级别 说明
报告中投资建议所涉及的评级（如有）分为股票评
级和行业评级（另有说明的除外）。评级标准为报
告发布日后6到 12个月内的相对市场表现，也即报
告发布日后的6到12个月内公司股价（或行业指数）
相对同期相关证券市场代表性指数的涨跌幅作为基
准。A股市场以沪深 300指数（000300.SH）作为基
准；新三板市场以三板成指（899001.CSI）为基准；
香港市场以恒生指数(HSI.HI)作为基准；美国市场
以标普 500指数(SPX.GI)或纳斯达克指数
（IXIC.GI）为基准。
股票
投资评级
优于大市 股价表现优于市场代表性指数 10%以上
中性 股价表现介于市场代表性指数±10%之间
弱于大市 股价表现弱于市场代表性指数 10%以上
无评级 股价与市场代表性指数相比无明确观点
行业
投资评级
优于大市 行业指数表现优于市场代表性指数 10%以上
中性 行业指数表现介于市场代表性指数±10%之间
弱于大市 行业指数表现弱于市场代表性指数 10%以上
重要声明
本报告由国信证券股份有限公司（已具备中国证监会许可的证券投资咨询业务资格）制作；报告版权归
国信证券股份有限公司

### Page 14

证券研究报告
国信证券经济研究所
深圳
深圳市福田区福华一路 125 号国信金融大厦 36 层
邮编：518046 总机：0755-82130833
上海
上海浦东民生路 1199 弄证大五道口广场 1 号楼 12 层
邮编：200135
北京
北京西城区金融大街兴盛街 6 号国信证券 9 层
邮编：100032

---
## Document 510: 张忆东：快则本周，慢则九月底，中国股市有望获得向上转机

Source PDF: all report pdf/张忆东：快则本周，慢则九月底，中国股市有望获得向上转机.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

---
## Document 517: 投資策略週報：財政部干預見成效，美股有望再走高

Source PDF: all report pdf/投資策略週報：財政部干預見成效，美股有望再走高.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 22
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
投資策略週報
財政部干預見成效
美股有望再走高
投資研究部
2026/08/31 – 2026/09/04

### Page 2

報告大綱
2
投資策略
市場訊息
總體經濟
外匯市場
3
7
債券市場
股票市場
機會市場與總結
商品地圖與產品
19
24
8
4
11
14

### Page 3

3
期限溢價率若繼續走高，科技股將再次承壓
投
資
策
略
市場展望投資策略
 避開利率風險，承作中天期投等債：即使美國財政部出
手干預使長天期公債殖利率出現小幅回檔，但財政赤字
問題才是期限溢價走高主因。在美國財政部未能改善赤
字問題前，建議投資人避開長天期信用債，以免殖利率
再次走高而受到傷害。(詳見Page 12)
 持續買進新亞股市：近期高盛再次上調2026~2028半
導體產業資本支出成長預期，顯示半導體企業在AI硬體
需求強勁下，也持續上調資本支出預算。持續看好半導
體產業長期展望，並著重在台灣、韓國、日本及中國。
(詳見Page 15~16)
 美股資金輪動趨勢延續 ，建議維持多元布局 ：短期而言，
即使美股上漲動能猶存 ，但整體並非由科技產業一枝獨
秀。其中，能源、健護、原材料及金融產業短期表現更
勝科技及半導體 ，建議投資人應維持多元布局 ，避免單
注重壓科技股。(詳見Page 17)
 匯市展望：美國財政部購債干預美債殖利率走高 ，重創
市場對美信心 ，美元指數應聲滑落 。同時，市場對歐洲

央行9月升息預期升溫，使美德利差預期縮窄，也同步壓
抑美元指數走勢 ，預期美元指數短期呈現弱勢震盪走勢 ，
本週區間看在98.9~99.8。
 債市展望：美國財政部雙管齊下阻止長天期美債殖利率
自2007年來新高繼續上行，短期小有成效，但長期仍需
透過改善財政赤字方能解決問題 。關注財政部 9/9正式
執行後的市場動態及反應 ，本週10年美債殖利率區間看
在4.65~4.80%。
 股市展望 : 科技股重拾漲勢 ，帶動標普500指數再次向
上走揚。同時，美國經濟升溫也帶動其他產業股價上揚 ，
整體呈現多點開花 。然而，鑒於美國期中選舉風險及財
政赤字、債務風險猶存，股市或在震盪中緩步走高 ，本
週標普500指數區間看在7,600~7,850。

### Page 4

市場觀望通膨狀態，多國或在9月升息
4
市
場
訊
息
頭條新聞
1. 聯準會主席華許在傑克森霍爾會議發表首次主題演講 ，
內容認為美國潛在通膨趨勢並未 「明顯改善」，市場認
為其立場偏向鷹派 ，交易員因此提高對聯準會 9月升息
的預期。美元指數單週由貶轉漲 ，逆轉先前因美國公債
遭拋售而導致的跌幅。
2. ECB理事會成員Schnabel於8/26表示，隨中東衝突持續
帶動油價維持高檔伴隨歐元區經濟狀態回溫 ，使通膨出
現上行風險 ，故利率必須進一步上升 。隨8月歐元區及
重要國家之通膨數據將公布 ，若如預期進一步上揚 ，或
使歐洲央行在9月會議再次升息。
3. 韓國央行於 8/27宣布升息 1碼，基準利率由 2.75%調升
至3%，為連續二次會議升息 。專家普遍認為 ，在通膨
與房市過熱壓力尚未完全消退下 ，韓國央行最快可能於
今年第四季再次升息 。而日本央行副行長冰見野良三在
8/27的公開表示「及時升息將有助於避免通膨大幅上升 ，
從而防止未來被迫突然升息。」 (詳見Page 5)

產業訊息
1. 全球晶片龍頭輝達2026年Q2營收創歷史新高$962.2億美
元(年增106%)。數據中心業務成核心增長引擎 ，單季貢
獻$890億美元(年增達117%)。受惠於全球大型雲端業者
對Blackwell Ultra架構的強勁需求 ，單季毛利率維持在
75%水準，帶動股價在盤後上漲逾4.5%。 (詳見Page 6)
2. CrowdStrike(CRWD)2026年Q2財報表現優異 ，單季營
收14.7億美元(年增26%)、經調整後 EPS達$0.31美元(由
虧轉盈)，雙雙超越市場預期 ($14.4億/$0.29)。在強勁AI
安全需求與 ARR創新高的帶動下 ，公司同步上調全年財
測，激勵盤後股價大漲逾10%，單日上漲20.5%。
3. 美國人形機器人公司Agility Robotics，最快將在9月在美
國那斯達克交易所掛牌上市 (股票代號 AGLT)，目前市場
估值約 25億美元 。然而 ，中國機器人龍頭宇樹科技於
8/19在中國科創板上市 ，雖然上市當日股價收盤狂飆

463%，但在隨後數個交易日內股價便下跌約30%。
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 5

BOJ副行長: 及時升息有助通膨大幅上升
5
日本央行10年綜合通膨預期指數已接近2% 圖表解讀
➢ 日本央行綜合通膨預期指數已逐步逼近 2%政策目標，
顯示企業與家庭對未來物價上漲的預期持續增強 。隨
著薪資成長 、服務價格上揚及內需改善 ，日本長期擺
脫通縮的基礎愈發穩固 。市場普遍認為 ，日本經濟已
具備承受較高利率環境的能力 ，也為央行進一步推動
貨幣政策正常化提供重要依據。
➢ 高盛最新預估指出 ，日本央行年內仍有機會升息兩碼 ，
使政策利率升至 1.50%。在通膨穩定 、經濟成長延續
的背景下，市場對利率路徑的預期持續上修。
➢ 日本央行副行長冰見野良三在 8/27的公開行程中對企
業界領袖表示 「如果核心通脹率偏離並超過我們 2%的
目標，將對經濟造成不利影響 。與過去相比 ，我們應
更加關注物價的上行風險 ，及時升息將有助於避免通
膨大幅上升，從而防止未來被迫突然升息。」
資料來源：Goldman Sachs, 2026/8/25
高盛預測BOJ年內將升息2碼至1.50%

市
場
訊
息
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 6

輝達營收大幅增長，資料中心為核心動力
6
輝達2Q營收大爆發，年增率達106% 圖表解讀
➢ 全 球 晶 片 龍 頭 輝 達2026 年2Q 營 收 創 歷 史 新 高， 達
$962.2億美元(年增106%)。數據中心業務成核心增長
引擎，單季貢獻$890億美元(年增達117%)。受惠全球
大型雲端業者對Blackwell Ultra架構的強勁需求，單季
毛利率維持在 75%的高水準。
➢ 展望3Q，公司預期營收將達 $1,080億美元，且該預測
已完全排除中國數據中心算力晶片的收入貢獻 ，彰顯
其他市場強勁的剛性需求 。目前Vera Rubin平台已進
入全面量產階段 ，並於主要雲端巨頭及 AI工廠陸續部
署，預計將持續維持技術壁壘與訂單能見度 ，推動營
收續創新高。
➢ 此外，輝達在邊緣運算營收達72億美元(年增27%)。公
司宣布與 BlackRock、Blackstone及Goldman Sachs
等頂尖金融機構合作 ，設立獨立計算融資平台 ，預計
將動員超過 $5,000億美元的第三方資本 ，投入AI基礎

設施建設。
資料來源： Nvidia/ Bloomberg/北富銀整理, 2026/8/27
數據中心業務打底，持續發展邊緣運算
市
場
訊
息
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
百萬美元

### Page 7

BOJ官員連續發言，日本央行即將攤牌??
7
重點提醒
➢ 繼日本央行副行長冰見野良三在 8/27發表講話後，日本
央行行長植田和男預期在8/31~9/1舉行的G20財長與央
行行長會議後發表言論 。而過去立場相對鷹派的兩位委
員高田創及增田和也也分別將在 9/2及9/10發表談話 ，
在9/18即將舉行的日本央行 9月利率決議前密集釋放信
號。按照過去數次會議日本央行的立場判斷 ，9月會議
可能再次宣布升息25bps至1.25%。
➢ 德國8月通膨年率預期由 7月的2.8%走揚至2.9%，而歐
元區8月通膨年率也預期由 7月的2.9%上升至3.1%，使
市場進一步押注9月ECB會議升息機率。除近期高漲的能
源價格外，擴張性財政政策 、綠色轉型、國防支出增加
及勞動市場都是歐洲通膨重新升溫的原因。
➢ 而美國數據看點在於目前市場景氣 (PMI)能否延續強勢 ，
而7月意外下滑的就業數據是否出現扭轉，若PMI續強且
非農再次轉向正成長，市場或再次提升未來升息押注。
央行利率政策及談話
重要經濟數據

日期 國家 數據 前期 預期
8/31 中國 8月官方製造業PMI 49.2 49.9
9/1 歐元區 8月通膨(年率)初值 2.9% 3.1%
9/1 美國 8月ISM製造業PMI 55.6 55.0
9/3 美國 8月ISM服務業PMI 54.1 53.8
9/4 美國 8月非農新增就業人口 -23.0K +12.0K
9/4 美國 8月失業率 4.1% 4.2%
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/8/24
總
體
經
濟
日期 國家 事件 前期 預期
9/2 日本 BOJ委員高田創發言 - -
9/2 加拿大 BOC9月利率決議會議 2.25% 2.25%
9/4 英國 BOE行長Baily發言 - -

### Page 8

中東擔憂消退，原油回吐近月漲幅
8
匯市表現說明
➢ WTI原油：WTI原油回吐近月漲幅，反映市場對中東衝突
擴散至主要產油國或關鍵航道的擔憂有所降溫 ，地緣政
治風險溢價逐步消退 。儘管美元走弱通常有利原油價格 ，
但市場焦點已轉向全球需求與供需平衡 。油價維持區間
震盪有助控制通膨壓力 ，對全球市場是相對有利的發展 。
➢ 澳幣： 澳幣表現居主要已開發國家前段班 ，作為典型的
商品貨幣 ，受惠市場風險偏好回升及亞洲經濟活動改善
帶動原物料需求增加 。隨著美元走弱及資金重新流向高
收益市場 ，澳洲相對較高的利率水準亦提升澳幣吸引力 ，
反映投資人對全球經濟前景仍維持樂觀態度。
➢ 英鎊： 近期英國薪資增速與服務業通膨仍具韌性 ，使市
場重新評估英國央行政策路徑 ，帶動英國公債殖利率維
持相對高位 。然而，市場對英國經濟較歐元區信心不足 ，
即便年內啟動升息 ，也預測於明年將重啟降息 ，多數則
預期利率將維持不動，使英鎊短期表現略遜一籌。
%
外
匯
市
場
外匯市場回顧
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/8/31

### Page 9

美元為何轉弱？問題在於利率結構變化
9
2年利率下滑且期限溢價上揚，美元表現偏弱 圖表解讀
➢ 歷史數據顯示 ，當市場預期聯準會短期將不會升息或
甚至降息時，2年期殖利率通常會下滑 ，且投資人因財
政赤字與發債增加而要求更高期限溢價時 ，美元往往
表現較弱 。此現象下 ，長天期殖利率上升並非來自經
濟轉強，而是風險補償需求增加。
➢ 當美國短端利率優勢逐漸縮小時 ，全球資金配置方向
將發生改變 ，使美元指數回落 ，而黃金因實質利率壓
力減輕而重新具有吸引力 。比特幣則受惠於流動性改
善與風險偏好回升 。近期在美國財政部宣布回購長債
後，資金便加速流向黃金及比特幣等替代標的。
➢ 短期而言 ，美元指數面臨下行壓力 。但市場仍持續關
注美國經濟數據及聯準會態度 ，若市場對升息預期再
起，美國2年期殖利率或將重新上行 ，並帶動美元指數
再次走揚。
資料來源：JPMorgan, 2026/8/21(上) / Bloomberg/北富銀整理, 2026/8/27(下)
外
匯
市
場
弱勢美元帶動黃金與比特幣轉強

貝森特宣布購債
美元指數
黃金
比特幣
美元貿易加權指數在不同情境下的累積即期外匯報酬

### Page 10

ECB9月或再升息，市場重點關注通膨數據
10
ECB官員重點關注再通膨風險 圖表解讀
➢ 近期布蘭特原油價格回升 ，加上歐元區 HICP年增率仍
高於ECB中性通膨稅準 (2%)，使部分官員擔憂通膨再
度升溫。若能源價格維持高檔或升溫 ，ECB可能於9月
採取進一步升息行動，避免通膨預期再次失控。
➢ 從歐元區綜合 PMI走勢可見 ，近期重新站上 50榮枯線 ，
顯示經濟活動已重返擴張 ，反映市場對歐洲景氣前景
轉趨樂觀 。然而，當需求回升與勞動市場穩健並存時 ，
企業較容易轉嫁成本壓力 ，也成近期通膨升溫的因素 。
➢ ECB理事會成員 Schnabel於8/26表示，隨中東衝突持
續、歐元區經濟走強 ，使通膨有上行風險 ，故利率必
須進一步上升 。短期而言 ，歐元兌美元因美元走弱而
偏強，而歐洲央行再次升息將使美歐利差進一步收斂 ，
讓美元指數延續偏弱震盪格局。
資料來源： Bloomberg/北富銀整理, 2026/8/25
外
匯
市
場
歐元區經濟好轉也成通膨升溫來源
歐元區綜合PMI 歐元/美元

ECB政策利率
歐元區HICP
布蘭特原油期貨

### Page 11

長天期殖利率回落有助投等債表現
11
債市表現說明
➢ 美國公債： 美國公債殖利率因財政部干預自高檔回落 ，
但長天期殖利率仍有可能受財政赤字及期限溢價影響而
維持高檔 ，而短端利率則因聯準會短期可能不會有動作
而相對有下滑空間。
➢ 全球投等債： 隨長天期殖利率回落 ，美國投等債短期表
現強勁 ，但非投等債近月表現仍優於投等債 ，顯示市場
對經濟軟著陸及企業獲利前景保持樂觀 。隨著違約風險
維持低檔 、信用利差持續收斂 ，資金開始由公債轉向追
求更高收益的信用資產 。不過由於利差已接近歷史低位 ，
後續表現將更依賴企業基本面支撐。
➢ 新興市場當地債： 新興市場當地債為近月表現最亮眼的
債券類別 ，主要受惠美元走弱 、資金回流新興市場及部
分國家貨幣升值帶來的匯兌收益 。隨著全球資金風險偏
好改善 ，新興市場債不僅享有較高殖利率 ，也成為追求
收益與資本利得的重要配置方向。
債
券
市
場
債券市場回顧
%
資料來源： Bloomberg, 2026/8/31

### Page 12

公債殖利率陡峭化，主因仍是財政赤字
12
8/7以來，全球公債殖利率曲線陡峭化
圖表解讀
➢ 近期全球公債殖利率曲線逐漸由倒掛回歸陡峭 ，主因
並非單一央行政策 ，而是市場重新評估長期成長與通
膨前景 。各國財政赤字擴大 、政府發債規模增加 ，以
及AI資料中心 、能源轉型與國防支出等長期投資需求
上升，使市場要求更高的長天期資金報酬率。
➢ 在殖利率曲線陡峭化下 ，長天期債券價格面臨較大壓
力，因此宜降低存續期間 ，優先配置短中天期債券 、
浮動利率債券或階梯式債券組合 ，以降低長端殖利率
上升造成的資本損失。
➢ 目前市場預期除澳洲外 ，多數已開發國家央行年底前
仍不排除進一步升息可能 。升息本身並非殖利率曲線
陡峭化的直接原因 ，而是市場預期經濟成長 、通膨與
資金需求維持強勁後所產生的結果。
資料來源： JPMorgan, 2026/8/21
債
券
市
場
除澳洲外，其餘已開發國家或在年底前升息
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 13

圖表解讀
➢ 據小摩統計，若將標普500企業以「未償債務總額」分
組，全數組別在2026Q2財報都繳出超過20%的盈餘年
增率，顯示美國大型企業獲利動能持續強勁 。逐組來
看，動能最強的是「未償債務總額超過500億」的組別，
也是債務最龐大的組別 。而動能最弱的則是未償債務
「50~100億」及「50億以下」的組別，部分解釋為何
近期大型科技企業持續增發新債，市場仍熱情買單。
➢ 然而，以個別企業CDS分析並以甲骨文為例 ，目前其5
年CDS價格已來到 223.7bps，不僅遠遠高於其餘大型
雲 端 供 應 商 水 準， 也 已 遠 高 於5 年 非 投 等 債CDS 的
107.9bps，顯示市場仍會對甲骨文未來自由現金流長
期流出感到擔憂 ，並對公司預期 2030年將再次轉正的
預測感到質疑，因而導致CDS價格持續走高。
➢ 因此，建議在買進投資級科技債時 ，仍應慎選標的或
以投資組合進行，避免承擔過多個別企業風險。
越積極舉債的企業，越有能力賺錢
13
標普500企業呈「負債越多、獲利成長越強」

資料來源： JPMorgan, 2026/8/21 (上) / Bloomberg, 2026/8/24 (下)
大型CSP積極發債，風險已反應在CDS
債
券
市
場
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 14

弱勢美元帶動資金進駐新興市場
14
股市表現說明
➢ 台灣加權指數： 台股近月上漲 5%，表現仍優於多數成熟
市場，主要受惠於AI伺服器、先進製程及半導體供應鏈需
求持續強勁 。國際資金回流亞洲科技股 ，加上新台幣升
值預期，有助提升外資配置意願。
➢ 越南指數：越南指數過去一個月大漲9.13%，為表現相對
亮眼的市場之一 ，反映國際資金加速流入東南亞高成長
市場。受惠於製造業轉移 、內需消費擴張及外資持續布
局，越南股市成為新興市場中的焦點標的 。在美元轉弱
與全球降息預期升溫背景下 ，高成長、高β值市場往往更
容易吸引資金追逐，也帶動越南股市領漲亞洲市場。
➢ 標普金融指數： 近期美國殖利率曲線趨於陡峭 ，有助改
善銀行淨利差(NIM)與獲利能力。同時市場對景氣軟著陸
預期升溫 ，也降低金融機構信用風險 。金融股轉強不僅
代表產業基本面改善 ，更象徵本輪漲勢開始呈現健康的
輪動擴散格局。
股
票
市
場
股票市場回顧
%
資料來源： Bloomberg, 2026/8/31
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 15

圖表解讀
➢ 隨科技巨頭持續上調 AI資本支出 ，先進製程 、記憶體
及半導體設備需求同步攀升 。台灣掌握先進晶圓代工
核心地位 ，韓國主導高階記憶體市場 ，日本則在半導
體設備與材料領域具備深厚優勢 。三國分工明確且具
技術護城河 ，在AI基礎建設持續擴張下 ，可望共同分
享新一輪產業成長紅利。
➢ 近期高盛再度上修全球半導體產業 CAPEX預測，反映
市場對未來3年AI需求保持高度信心 。由於全球新增投
資多集中於先進製程 、記憶體與設備領域 ，最直接受
惠的正是台灣 、日本與韓國產業鏈 。隨著產能利用率
回升、企業獲利改善及資金持續流入科技產業 ，台日
韓半導體產業將成為未來數年全球投資重要核心資產 。
➢ 短期而言 ，持續觀察各國公債殖利率走勢 ，並確認市
場對高殖利率不利成長股折現現值的態度 。然而，長
期持續看好AI發展之硬體需求及整體產業前景。
AI硬體需求太強，CAPEX預期再次上調
15
高盛再次上調半導體產業CAPEX預期
資料來源： Goldman Sachs, 2026/8/24

股
票
市
場
全球需求太強烈，中國金額上升但佔比下滑

### Page 16

圖表解讀
➢ 中國半導體產業鏈正處於新一輪擴產週期 ，2030年前
投資維持雙位數成長 。無論是晶圓製造 、設備材料或
IC設計，政策支持與國產替代需求皆提供長期動能 。
雖然目前研發費用與全球龍頭企業仍有差距 ，但基期
低、成長空間大 ，未來有望吸收成熟產能與市占率 ，
帶動獲利同步提升。
➢ 其中，科創50指數被視為 「中國版費半指數 」，成分
股涵蓋半導體設備 、晶片設計 、EDA軟體、先進材料
及高端製造等戰略產業 ，不僅反映中國科技自主化趨
勢，也代表國家資源持續向創新產業集中。
➢ 然而，科創50短期或面臨獲利兌現速度不如預期 、估
值偏高及市場風險偏好下降等挑戰 。此外，美中科技
限制及部分企業仍處於高研發投入階段 ，可能造成獲
利波動與股價震盪，投資表現短期存在不確定性。
科創50就是中國版費半指數
16
中國正積極投資半導體產業鏈
資料來源： Goldman Sachs, 2026/8/24
股
票
市
場
研發費用與CAPEX仍遠遠不及全球龍頭
研發費用與全球龍頭相比 資本支出與全球龍頭相比

*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 17

圖表解讀
➢ 近期美股產業輪動現象明顯 ，健護、能源與原物料位
於相對強勢區域 ，短、中期股價動能最強 。市場風險
偏好仍維持高檔 ，但資金開始由過去高度集中的 AI概
念股，逐步擴散至更多受惠經濟成長與景氣循環的產
業，使整體多頭結構更加健康且具有延續性。
➢ 從下圖觀察 ，金融與能源產業分別僅有 13.2%/14.3%
的個股股價低於 200日均線 ，優於標普 500指數平均
(26.3%)，顯示產業內多數個股同步上漲 ，而非僅靠少
數龍頭撐盤 。當市場廣度持續改善 ，通常意味著資金
參與度提升 ，有助於延長多頭行情週期 ，也反映投資
人對經濟前景仍保持相當程度的信心。
➢ 整體而言 ，科技股仍是市場重點關注焦點 ，但短期股
市由健護 、金融、能源及原物料等產業強勢帶領 ，顯
示美股資金輪動趨勢強勁 。建議投資人應多元分散布
局，在科技股為核心下 ，伴隨金融 、健護、能源、原
物料等產業作短期衛星配置。
美股多點開花，產業輪動強勁
17
健護、能源、原物料短期表現最強
資料來源： Bloomberg, 2026/8/24

股
票
市
場
金融、能源個股普遍股價強勢
股價
變化
股價變化
%
%
%

### Page 18

圖表解讀
➢ 儘管利率維持高檔 ，美國消費市場仍展現強勁韌性 。
就業市場穩定 、薪資持續成長 ，加上資產價格維持高
位，帶動家庭消費支出保持擴張 。從零售 、旅遊到服
務性消費皆維持正向成長 ，高收入族群受惠於股市與
房地產增值所產生的財富效果 ，消費意願明顯優於歷
史平均水準，成為支撐美國經濟的重要力量。
➢ 隨著相關成本上升 ，中低收入族群購車能力受到壓縮 ，
而受惠於金融資產增值的富裕家庭則持續貢獻主要需
求。因此，富人經濟已成為許多產業維持成長的核心
驅動力，也是觀察美國消費趨勢的重要指標。
➢ 作為非必需消費代表企業 ，特斯拉正積極推進旗下自
駕計程車生態布局 。隨著監管逐步開放 ，Robotaxi有
望持續擴大城市覆蓋率 ，提升車輛使用效率與平台價
值。若未來自動駕駛商業化順利 ，將開啟新的成長曲
線，進一步受惠高端消費與科技升級趨勢。
美國消費動能續強，富人階層貢獻最多
18
新車銷售動能主要來自高收入族群
資料來源： Cox Automotive, 2026/1(上) / JPM，2026/7/23 (下)

股
票
市
場
特斯拉將加快Robotaxi城市覆蓋率
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 19

9月機會市場亮點
19
機
會
市
場
資產別 市場 亮點
股票
市場
美國 美股上漲動能反映風險偏好情緒。半導體和大型科技股領漲，正向的財報結果，顯示AI交易回來了。
企業獲利續支撐股市，市場焦點轉向企業基本面與AI資本支出，雲端、半導體是主要受惠族群。
中國 中國政策仍偏寬鬆，A股表現較好的集中在科技硬體，例如科創板50指數。官方積極推動增量措施引
導長線資金入市，預期增量政策發酵，資金回補落後與科技類股，帶動類股輪動與反彈格局。
新亞 AI伺服器、高速傳輸、ASIC、先進封裝及散熱供應鏈仍為市場主流，記憶體晶片價格回升與 AI 需求
拉動。亞洲科技股展望依舊正向，不過短期估值已高，留意韓國科技股波動及槓桿比率是否再起。
科技 全球AI投資循環仍處於擴張階段，大型科技公司持續增加CapEx，帶動半導體、網通、光通訊及資料
中心基建需求，市場資金偏好具有獲利成長能見度的龍頭企業。
非必需
消費
美國就業仍具韌性，消費力維持穩定，惟高利率下消費者更重視品牌及價格。Amazon、Costco、

Netflix等龍頭企業財報表現仍優於預期，建議聚焦具品牌力、富人經濟及高定價能力企業。
原材料
/能源
中東衝突、俄羅斯煉能減損及歐美老舊煉廠關閉，原油供給危機引發成品油荒，煉油裂解價差與煉油
利潤衝上歷史高位。汽油價差亦創近年新高，推升石油巨頭的煉油部門獲利至歷史罕見水準。
債券
市場
投等債 8月中旬發行的谷歌55億澳元債及QTS 39億美元債皆獲市場大力支持，認購倍數分別高達3.3/6.0倍，
即便殖利率相對偏高，但仍反映市場資金對高評等企業債需求強勁。
非投等債 非投等債具高息收與低存續期，整體結構已出現質變，不再由低評級「垃圾債」主導。美國非投等債
到期高峰為2029年，短期將不會有在高利率下的再融資壓力。
匯率
市場 美元 美國財政部擴大「債券回購」規模使美元供給增加並走弱，持續關注美國經濟數據及未來利率走向，
若升息機率再次走升或有望支撐美元短期跌勢，但市場普遍看好美元將在2027年持續走弱。
看好減碼 中立

### Page 20

20
資產別 市場 評論
股票
市場
歐洲 經濟維持低度成長，企業獲利改善速度較美國溫和，焦點回歸企業基本面與財政支出。國防、工業
自動化、電網升級及能源轉型仍為中長期投資主軸，持續關注歐洲通膨與ECB對再次升息的態度。
日本 東證持續推動提升股價淨值比與資本效率改革，吸引國際與本地資金流入。日本薪資增長，使非必
需消費與內需企業基本面改善。AI與全球半導體供應鏈需求旺盛，挹注相關科技類股營運動能。
健護
醫療
高齡化社會推動長期慢性病、癌症治療及長照等剛性需求。減肥藥市場需求超預期，帶動大型藥廠
獲利成長。政策推動藥價監管，製藥廠獲利率承壓。大廠暢銷藥品專利到期，將面臨競爭加劇風險。
公用
事業
公用事業類股因數據中心帶來的龐大電力需求，已從傳統的防禦型「收息股」轉型為兼具穩健配息
與成長潛力的標的。這類公司具備強大護城河，但高利率環境估值壓力較大。偏防守與收益型配置。
金融 高利率環境讓銀行能擴大借款成本與放款利息之間的利差，帶來豐厚營收。投行業務與交易活動大
增。但消費者拖欠率上升，以及民間信貸市場面臨貸款損失壓力，銀行與券商面臨潛在呆帳風險。

房地產 美國30年期房貸利率升至近一年新高，購房需求持續承壓。住宅市場仍受到高房貸利率限制，醫療
保健不動產投資信託受益人口老化的剛性需求，相對較為看好。
工業 美國再工業化持續，中美戰略競爭迫使美國決策者重新審視工業化的必要性，工業股維持中性配置。
債券
市場
公債 全球政府財政紀律備受質疑，公債殖利率持續走揚，隨多國或再次升息壓制通膨，短期公債或續跌。
新興
市場
新興市場債殖利率相比全球債券及美國債券更具吸引力；許多新興市場央行已早早升息並使通膨回
落，本地貨幣債實際殖利率在全球中相當突出，但需謹慎選擇，因匯率波動與政治風險不可輕忽。
市
場
評
論
看好減碼 中立
其它市場評論

### Page 21

期限溢價率若繼續走高，科技股將再次承壓
21
總
結
貨幣 負向 中立 正向
美元 ●
歐元 ●
日圓 ●
人民幣 ●
澳幣 ●
黃金 ●
原油 ●
全球外匯&商品展望 全球債市展望 全球股市展望 標普產業展望
債種 負向 中立 正向
全球債 ●
美國
公債 ●
投資
等級債 ●
非投資
等級債 ●
新興
市場債 ●
國家 負向 中立 正向
美國 ●
新亞 ●
日本 ●
歐洲 ●
新歐 ●
中國 ●
產業 負向 中立 正向
科技 ●
消費 ●
工業 ●
金融 ●
健護 ●
公用事業 ●
房地產 ●
能源/原材料 ●
• 財政部干預打擊市場對美信心，且ECB升息預期也壓
抑美元指數走勢，預期美元呈弱勢整理。
• 美國財政部將在9/9開始執行購債計畫，觀察市場動
態與反應，並關注長期財政赤字問題將如何改善。
• 長天期殖利率回落有助科技股重拾漲勢，伴隨多個產
業動能強勢，美股呈現多點開化，預期將震盪走高。
• 本週千億級企業財報重點關注博通(9/3)，其餘則有美
敦力(9/1)、帕羅奧圖(9/2)、戴爾(9/2) 及雪花(9/3)。

• 美國財政部將於9/9~11/4針對10~20年及20~30年期
公債進行「流動性支援回購」，重點關注TGA帳戶變化
及11月將公布的新一季購債及發債計畫。
• 美國期中選舉將在11/3舉行，市場預期FED在12月會議
前不會有進一步動作，持續關注數據及官員發言。
後市觀察重點Key Notes

### Page 22

信賴該等資料做出投資決策為由，向本行主張任何權利。未經本行授權，禁止以任何形式引
用、抄襲、重製或轉寄本研究報告。
警語

---
## Document 522: 日元156告破，日本央行被迫提前紧缩的临界点到了？

Source PDF: all report pdf/日元156告破，日本央行被迫提前紧缩的临界点到了？.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

美元兑⽇元⼀度跌破 156 关⼝，⽇元贬值压⼒进⼀步加⼤。在美联储加息并释放鹰派信号、
美⽇利差预期升温之际，⽇本央⾏ 9 ⽉会议加息 25 个基点的概率已达 98.2% 。市场焦点转向
植⽥和男对后续加息节奏的表态，⽇元⾛弱也进⼀步增加⽇本央⾏加快政策正常化的压
⼒。
摘要：
美元兑⽇元跌破 156 关⼝，⽇本央⾏加息压⼒进⼀步上升。美联储加息 25 个基点并释放鹰派信号
后，美⽇利差扩⼤的预期重新升温，⽇元⼀度下跌 1% ⾄ 156.42 。
与此同时，⽇本央⾏ 9 ⽉ 17 ⽇⾄ 18 ⽇政策会议临近，市场对加息的预期已接近确定。隔夜指数掉
期市场显⽰，⽇本央⾏将基准利率从 1% 上调 25 个基点的概率达到 98.2% 。
在加息 25 个基点⼏乎被市场完全计价的情况下，投资者关注的重点已经转向植⽥和男会释放怎
样的政策信号。市场将重点观察⽇本央⾏是否暗⽰后续连续加息，甚⾄是否存在⼀次性加息 50
个基点的可能。
⽇元再度⾛弱也增加了⽇本央⾏的政策压⼒。汇率贬值会推⾼进⼝成本，进⼀步向国内物价传

导；⽽如果⽇本央⾏加息⼒度低于预期，⽇元⼜可能继续承压。
美⽇利差压⼒重新升温，⽇本央⾏加息已近乎板上钉钉
据彭博报道，美联储在结束为期两天的联邦公开市场委员会会议后宣布加息 25 个基点。美联储
主席 Kevin Warsh 表⽰，通胀仍然过⾼且持续时间过⻓，暗⽰未来仍存在进⼀步加息的可能。
美联储重新收紧货币政策，强化了美⽇利差扩⼤的预期。ACCM 研究主管 Glen Yin 表⽰，⽇本
⾯临较⼤压⼒，需要通过加息和释放鹰派信号减轻⽇元贬值冲击；如果⽇本央⾏政策⼒度低于
市场预期，⽇元短期向 160 关⼝移动的⻛险将上升。
⽬前，⽇本央⾏加息 25 个基点的概率已达 98.2% ，因此本次会议的核⼼变量并⾮是否加息，⽽
是植⽥会后的表态以及对后续加息节奏的指引。若⽇本央⾏释放连续加息信号，市场对⽇元和
⽇本国债的定价都可能随之调整。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
25 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
⽇本央⾏此前通过负利率、收益率曲线控制和⼤规模购债，在美联储加息周期中压低国内融资
成本，部分缓冲了美国利率变化的冲击。随着这些⾮常规政策于 2024 年退出，美国利率变化如
今能够更加直接地传导⾄⽇本汇率和债券市场。
在这⼀背景下，⽇元跌破 156 不仅是汇率层⾯的变化，也进⼀步凸显了⽇本央⾏加快货币政策正
常化所⾯临的压⼒。
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 525: 日本干预汇市“抽血”？7月海外持美债降至九个月低谷，中国持仓创2008年来新低

Source PDF: all report pdf/日本干预汇市“抽血”？7月海外持美债降至九个月低谷，中国持仓创2008年来新低.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

据美国财政部报告， 7 ⽉海外持美债环⽐减少 504 亿美元；美头号 “ 债主 ” ⽇本的美债持仓减
少 128 亿美元、连降三个⽉，⼜创⼀年多新低；第三⼤债主中国持美债减少 154 亿美元，连
降两⽉；第⼆⼤债主英国逆市增持 584 亿美元、持仓刷新 5 ⽉所创最⾼纪录； 7 ⽉法国和加
拿⼤持仓降幅居前，分别减少 415 亿和 300 亿美元。
摘要：
美国官⽅数据显⽰，今年 7 ⽉，海外投资者的美国国债持仓规模降⾄九个⽉低⾕，这⼀时间恰恰
与美国最⼤海外 “ 债主 ” ⽇本⼲预汇市、⽀持⽇元的⾏动重合。
据美国财政部于美东时间 9 ⽉ 16 ⽇周三公布国际资本流动报告（ TIC ）， 7 ⽉海外投资者持有的美
国国债规模连降两个⽉，环⽐ 6 ⽉减少 504 亿美元，降⾄ 9.25 万亿美元，为 2025 年 10 ⽉以来最低
⽔平。
TIC 报告显⽰，法国和加拿⼤持仓下降是 7 ⽉海外美债持仓回落的主要因素。⽇本、中国⼤陆也
继续减持。与此同时，⽇本曾在 7 ⽉末与美国协调⼲预汇市、买⼊⽇元，市场由此再度关注：⽇

本为⽀撑本币⽽动⽤外储，是否会进⼀步影响其美债配置，并给美国国债市场带来额外压⼒。
⽇本美债持仓连降三个⽉  ⼜创⼀年多新低
TIC 报告显⽰，⽇本 7 ⽉持有的美国国债规模环⽐减少 128 亿美元，降⾄ 1.1039 万亿美元，连续两
个⽉创 2025 年 1 ⽉以来持仓新低，但总持仓仍在海外国家地区中位居榜⾸。截⾄ 7 ⽉，⽇本的美
债持仓已连降三个⽉。
⽇本是美国国债最⼤的海外持有国，其外储配置与美债市场之间的联系⼀直受到市场关注。近
⼏个⽉⽇本减持美债与其汇市⼲预在时间上存在重合。
⽇本财务省 5 ⽉ 29 ⽇公布的数据显⽰， 4 ⽉ 28 ⽇⾄ 5 ⽉ 27 ⽇期间，⽇本的外汇市场⼲预总额达到
11.73 万亿⽇元。分析⼈⼠认为，⽇本这类买⼊⽇元的交易很可能涉及⼀定规模的美国国债出
售。
⽇本财务省 8 ⽉ 3 ⽇证实，⽇本政府与美国财政部于 7 ⽉ 31 ⽇协调实施了买⼊⽇元的汇率⼲预，以
遏制⽇元汇率近期的剧烈波动。这是⽇美两国⾃ 2011 年东⽇本⼤地震后⾸次协调⼲预汇市，也

是⾦融危机等特殊时期之外极为罕⻅的联合⾏动。
8 ⽉ 29 ⽇公布的⽇本财务省数据显⽰， 7 ⽉ 30 ⽇⾄ 8 ⽉ 26 ⽇期间，⽇本政府共计投⼊约 15.4 万亿
⽇元⼲预汇市，创⼲预⾦额新⾼。
⼲预汇市需要⽇⽅卖出外汇、买⼊⽇元。由于⽇本外储中持有⼤量美国国债，市场因此关注，
⽇本是否会通过出售美债等美元资产，为⼲预⾏动提供资⾦。
但需要注意， TIC 报告统计的是持仓余额变化，其中既包括实际买卖，也包括债券估值变化。因
此，不能仅凭该报告确认⽇本为⼲预汇市出售了多少美债。
中国同步减持，英国逆势增持 584 亿美元⾄新⾼
从 TIC 报告看，除⽇本外，美国的另⼀⼤ “ 债主 ” 中国 7 ⽉也继续减持。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
350 收藏 分享到 :
中国⼤陆 7 ⽉持有的美国国债环⽐减少 154 亿美元，降⾄ 6180 亿美元，创 2008 年来将近⼗⼋年新
低，连续两个⽉、最近 11 个⽉内第九个⽉持仓下降，总持仓继续排在第三位。
美国第⼆⼤海外 “ 债主 ” 英国则呈现相反⾛势。英国 7 ⽉持仓增加 584 亿美元，升⾄ 9983 亿美元，
刷新 5 ⽉所创的持仓最⾼纪录。⾃ 2025 年 3 ⽉⼆⼗多年⾸次超越中国以来，英国的美国国债持仓
⼀直位居第⼆， 7 ⽉持仓在 6 ⽉回落后反弹、最近七个⽉内第六个⽉增持。
在 TIC 报告的⼗⼤海外持有美债国家地区中， 7 ⽉只有英国、卢森堡、开曼群岛三个持仓增加，
英国增幅最⼤，后两者增幅分别为 79 亿美元和 70 亿美元。降幅前两位分别是总持仓排名第九位
的法国和第七位的加拿⼤，持仓分别环⽐减少 415 亿美元和 333 亿美元。

总持仓排在第四位的⽐利时 7 ⽉持仓减少 118 亿美元，降⾄ 4707 亿美元。市场分析⼈⼠指出，⽐
利时持仓中可能包括中国等国家的托管账⼾，因此不能将其持仓变化简单视为⽐利时本国投资
者的买卖。
整体来看， 7 ⽉海外美债持仓下降并⾮由⽇本⼀国造成。法国、加拿⼤等国持仓减少，以及债券
价格变化，都对总规模产⽣了影响。
海外美债持仓连续回落，市场仍关注通胀与财政⾚字
从整体趋势看，海外投资者持有的美债规模已从年初⾼位回落。
美国财政部此前公布的 6 ⽉ TIC 报告显⽰，海外投资者持有美债规模环⽐减少 721 亿美元，降⾄约
9.3 万亿美元，为 3 ⽉以来最⼤单⽉降幅。 5 ⽉海外持仓曾达到约 9.37 万亿美元，仅次于 2 ⽉创下
的约 9.49 万亿美元历史⾼点。
7 ⽉海外持仓再减少 504 亿美元，降⾄ 9.25 万亿美元，进⼀步跌离年初⾼位。
彭博社指出， 7 ⽉彭博美国国债指数下跌超过 1% 。当时投资者担忧伊朗战争加剧通胀⻛险，同
时继续关注美国财政⾚字问题。
海外投资者持仓下降，可能意味着美债需求⾯临压⼒，但持仓余额并不能直接反映净卖出规

模。尤其在债券价格下跌时，即使投资者没有⼤规模卖出，持仓市值也可能随之缩⽔。
对美债市场⽽⾔，⽇本⼲预汇市带来的潜在资产出售压⼒，与美国财政⾚字、通胀⻛险和海外
需求变化交织在⼀起。后续值得关注的，不仅是⽇本美债持仓是否继续下降，也包括⽇本未来
的外汇⼲预将如何融资，以及其他主要海外持有者的配置是否出现持续变化。
限免

### Page 3

写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 526: 日本経済展望2026年９月号：【地方の訪日客数に回復の動き】【食料品の消費減税、再増税時の消費減に要注意】（PDF：1535KB）

Source PDF: all report pdf/日本経済展望2026年９月号：【地方の訪日客数に回復の動き】【食料品の消費減税、再増税時の消費減に要注意】（PDF：1535KB）.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 12
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

調査部 マクロ経済研究センター
https://www.jri.co.jp/report/medium/japan/
2026年9月
日 本 経 済 展 望

### Page 2

性・完全性を保証するものではありません。また、情報の内容は、経済情勢等の変化により変更されることがあります。本資料の情報に起因してご閲覧者様及び第三者に損害が発生したとしても執筆者、執筆にあたっての取材先及び
弊社は一切責任を負わないものとします。
メルマガ X（旧Twitter） YouTube

### Page 3

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月
▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（資料）総務省、日本銀行
（％）
（年/月）
国内企業物価指数
（前年比）
消費者物価指数
（全国、生鮮除く総合、前年比）
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（資料）日本銀行
（2020年＝100）
（年/月）
実質輸出
実質輸入
85
90
95
100
105
110
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（資料）経済産業省
（2020年＝100）
（年/月）
（2019～2020年平均＝100）
第３次産業活動指数
（右目盛）
鉱工業生産指数（左目盛）
景気動向指数は一致指数が持ち直し
先行指数は上昇基調

概況：景気は一部で足踏みも緩やかに回復
企業 外需
家計 物価 企業物価は伸びが拡大
消費者物価は伸びが底打ち
失業率は２％台半ばと低位
名目賃金は伸びが拡大基調
輸出は持ち直し
輸入は均してみると横ばい
2
鉱工業生産は持ち直し
サービス業の経済活動は堅調
消費は緩やかな回復傾向が持続
住宅着工は弱い動き
景気
雇用
所得
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
130
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（資料）内閣府
（2020年＝100）
（年/月）
景気動向指数
（ＣＩ、一致指数）
景気動向指数
（ＣＩ、先行指数）
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（資料）総務省、厚生労働省
(注)現金給与総額は共通事業所ベース
（％）
（年/月）
（％）
完全失業率（左目盛）

現金給与総額
(前年比、右目盛）
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
150
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
110
2016 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（資料）総務省、国土交通省
（2025年＝100）
（年/月）
総消費動向指数
（実質、左目盛）
新設住宅着工戸数
（年率、右目盛）
（万戸）

### Page 4

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月3
４～６月期の実質ＧＤＰは上方改定
96
98
100
102
104
106
108
110
2021 22 23 24 25 26
（2020年＝100）
（年/月）
鉱工業生産指数（季調値）
（資料）経済産業省
（注）直近は、過去の修正パターンを基に経済産業省が算出した補正値
（８月）を使用して作成。
▲ 60
▲ 40
▲ 20
0
20
40
60
2022 23 24 25 26
中東 全体
国・地域別の輸出額（前年比）
（資料）財務省を基に日本総研作成
（年/月）
（％）
28
30
32
34
36
38
40
42
2021 22 23 24 25 26
（ポイント）
（資料）内閣府 （年/月）
消費者態度指数
1.1
1.4
▲ 1.5
▲ 1.0
▲ 0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
1次ＱＥ 2次ＱＥ
外需 その他内需 設備投資
個人消費 実質ＧＤＰ
（資料）内閣府を基に日本総研作成
（前期比年率、％）

2026年４～６月期の実質ＧＤＰ成長率◆設備投資とその他内需が上方改定
４～６月期の２次ＱＥでは 、実質ＧＤＰ成長
率は前期比年率＋ 1.4％と、１次ＱＥの同＋
1.1％から上方改定。設備投資とその他 内需の上
方改定が全体を押し上げ。
◆製造業の生産活動は回復基調
８月の鉱工業生産は 、前月比＋0.1％と小幅に
増加。輸送用機械工業が減少したものの 、堅調な
ＡＩ関連需要に伴い 、半導体製造装置などの生
産用機械工業を中心に増加。
先行きの生産計画によると 、９月の製造工業生
産予測指数（過去の予測誤差を基に算出した補
正値）は同＋3.1％と上昇する見込み。ＡＩ関連
などの半導体需要を背景に、機械工業が大幅に増
産する見通し。
◆輸出は持ち直し
輸出は回復基調。米国、アジアなどの輸出が堅調
に推移していることに加え、中東危機により落ち込ん
でいた中東向けの輸出が足元で持ち直し。
◆消費者マインドは改善
８月の消費者態度指数は４ヵ月連続の上昇。食
料などを中心とした物価の落ち着きを受け 、購買力

が改善しており、暮らし向きや耐久消費財の買い時
判断に対する意識が改善。

### Page 5

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月4
企業収益は堅調、設備投資は持ち直し
◆企業収益は堅調
法人企業統計によると 、2026年４～６月期の
経常利益（全産業）は前年比＋24.6%と、７四
半期連続の増益。価格転嫁の進展などにより売上
高の大幅増が経常利益を押し上げたほか 、円安基
調が続くなか 、製造業では海外子会社からの配当
など（営業外損益に計上 ）が増加したことも増益
要因に。中東情勢の混乱によって 、中小企業で原
材料価格などの変動費増加が収益の下押し要因と
なったものの、企業収益全体への影響は限定的。
先行きを展望すると、個人消費の底堅さや価格転
嫁の進展などを背景に 、経常利益は増勢を維持す
る見通し。
◆金利上昇が設備投資の重石となるリスク
法人企業統計によると、設備投資（季調値、ソフ
トウェア投資を含む）は前期比＋1.5％と、２四半
期ぶりの増加。ソフトウェア投資が前期から減少した
ものの、既存設備の維持・更新需要などを背景とし
たその他の投資の増加が全体を押し上げ 。人手不

足を背景とした省力化やＤＸ化への投資需要は根
強く、先行きのソフトウェア投資は堅調に推移する見
通し。
ただし、金利上昇に伴う企業の借入負担の増加
が懸念材料。宿泊・飲食や不動産、電気・ガスなど
の産業では、総資産の約50%を有利子負債に依
存。これらの産業では 、返済負担の高まりが新たな
設備投資の重石となる可能性。
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
2023 24 25 26
売上高 人件費
減価償却費 営業外損益
変動費 経常利益
（％）
（資料）財務省を基に日本総研作成
（注）全規模・全産業（除く金融・保険業）。
（年/期）
経常利益の要因分解（前年比）
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
製造業 非製造業
売上高 人件費
減価償却費 営業外損益
変動費 経常利益
（資料）財務省を基に日本総研作成
（注）2026年４～６月期（全規模）。非製造業は金融・保険業を除く。
（％）
経常利益の要因分解（業種別、前年比）
8
9
10
11
12

13
14
15
16
0.6
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
2015 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
ソフトウェア投資（左目盛）
その他の投資（右目盛）
（兆円） （兆円）
（年/期）（資料）財務省を基に日本総研作成
（注）全規模・全産業（除く金融業・保険業）。
設備投資額（季調値）
20.9
23.3
24.8
26.0
32.0
37.5
41.2
41.7
49.8
51.4
52.5
0 20 40 60
情報通信
製造
建設
卸売・小売
生活関連サービス・娯楽
教育・学習支援
医療・福祉
運輸・郵便
電気・ガス
不動産・物品賃貸
宿泊・飲食サービス
産業別の有利子負債依存度
（資料）財務省を基に日本総研作成
（注）2024年度。有利子負債依存度は社債と長短借入金、受取手形割引
残高の合計を総資産で除したもの。電気・ガスは「電気業」と「ガス・熱供
給・水道業」の合算値。
（％）

### Page 6

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月5
堅調な所得環境が個人消費を下支え
◆実質賃金は堅調に増加
７月の一般労働者の所定内給与は前年比＋
4.0％と、前月から伸びを拡大。パートタイム労働者
（時給ベース）は同＋5.9％と、高めの伸びに。
夏季賞与をみても前年比ベースで堅調に増加し、
大企業の総平均支給額は 100万円を突破。非製
造業は90万円台と、前年比＋９％近くの高い伸び
に。給与と賞与の増加を受け 、雇用者全体の実質
賃金も前年比＋1.9%と上昇。
先行き、実質賃金はプラス圏で推移する見通し 。
人手不足感の高まりや物価の高騰などにより企業に
対する賃上げ圧力は強く 、名目賃金は高めの伸び
を維持すると予想 。また、政府のエネルギー補助金
などにより物価上昇圧力が一定程度緩和することが
実質賃金の改善に寄与する見込み。
◆実質賃金の増加で消費も伸長
消費活動指数を形態別にみると 、エアコンの駆け
込み需要や自動車の減税などが影響し 、耐久財を
中心に足元では財消費が持ち直し 。加えて、娯楽

関連を中心にサービス消費も堅調に推移。
先行き、実質賃金の増加を背景に 、個人消費は
緩やかに増加する見込み。ただし、資源価格の高騰
により物価上昇圧力が強まった場合 、実質賃金の
下振れを通じて消費が腰折れする可能性に注意。
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
総平均 製造業 非製造
2025年度
2026年度
前年比(右目盛)
業種別夏季賞与（大企業）
（資料）日本経済団体連合会を基に日本総研作成
（％）（万円）
総平均  製造業 非製造業
▲ 4
▲ 3
▲ 2
▲ 1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
2022 23 24 25 26 27 28
名目賃金要因
雇用者要因
物価要因
実質総雇用者所得（前年比）の見通し
（資料）内閣府を基に日本総研作成
（注）実質雇用者所得は、家計最終消費支出デフレーターで実質化。
（年/期）
（％）
予測
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
120
125
2020 21 22 23 24 25 26

財 サービス
消費活動指数（季調値）
（2020年=100）
（資料）日本銀行を基に日本総研作成
（注）後方３ヵ月移動平均。
（年/月）
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
2022 23 24 25 26
一般労働者
パートタイム労働者（時給ベース）
（資料）厚生労働省を基に日本総研作成
（注）調査対象企業の入れ替えにより生じたデータの断層を調整。
（年/月）
（％）
所定内給与（前年比）

### Page 7

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月6
基調的に強まるインフレ圧力
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
2022 23 24 25 26
生産性要因 賃金要因 単位労働コスト
（％）
（資料）内閣府を基に日本総研作成
（年/期）
賃金上昇
生産性低下
単位労働コスト（前年比）
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
▲ 0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
2018 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
市場（左目盛）
企業（〃）
家計（右目盛）
（％）
（資料）日本銀行、Bloomberg L.P.を基に日本総研作成
（注）家計と企業は5年先、市場は10年先の物価見通し。
（年/期）
（％）
中長期の期待インフレ率
0
1
2
3
4
5
2022 23 24 25 26
コアCPI
コアCPI（特殊要因を除く）
（％）
（資料）総務省、日本銀行を基に日本総研作成
（注）特殊要因は、政府によるエネルギー価格支援策や教育・給食費
無償化政策の影響など。

（年/月）
基調的な消費者物価（前年比）
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
2025/9 12 26/3 6 9 12 27/3 6 9
新発10年物国債金利
無担保コール翌日物金利
（%） 予測
（資料）NEEDS-FinancialQUEST
（年/月末）
わが国主要金利の見通し
◆政策要因を除いた物価の伸びは高止まり
７月のコアＣＰＩ（生鮮食品を除く総合）は前
年比＋1.8％と、２％割れ。既往の原油高を受け
てエネルギー価格の上昇圧力が強まるなかでも 、政
府による物価高対策が伸びを抑制。こうした特殊要
因を除いた物価の伸び （日銀公表値 ）は同＋
2.3％と、２％を上回る水準で高止まりしており、基
調的な物価上昇圧力は根強い状況。
先行きも、基調的な物価上昇は続く見通し 。とり
わけ、賃金面からのインフレ圧力が強まると予想。足
元では、生産性の伸びを上回るペースで賃金が上
昇しており 、企業の価格転嫁を通じて販売価格の
押し上げにつながりやすい状況。市場や企業、家計

が織り込む期待インフレ率も２％を上回る水準に上
昇。インフレ期待が想定以上に上振れた場合 、値
上げや賃上げの積極化を通じて物価の伸びが上振
れる恐れも。
◆日銀は利上げペースを加速する見込み
日銀は、基調的なインフレ率が２ ％に近づいてい
るとしており、利上げを継続する構え。次回利上げは
９月と予想 。その後は四半期に１回のペースで利
上げし、27年半ばに政策金利は２％に到達する見
通し。
長期金利は 、海外金利の影響を受けながら 、日
銀の利上げ観測や財政支出の拡大観測などを背
景に、緩やかな上昇傾向をたどる見通し。エネルギー
補助金や消費減税を巡り 、財政規律の低下が強く
意識されれば、長期金利が上振れするリスクも。

### Page 8

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月7
◆地方の訪日客数は回復基調
中国政府による日本への渡航自粛制限を受け 、
足元では中国人訪日客が大幅に減少しているもの
の、外国人延べ宿泊者数は底堅く推移 。コロナ禍
以降、回復が遅れていた地方の訪日客数は増勢を
維持しているほか、全体に占める割合も上昇し 、都
市と地方の格差は縮小傾向 。地方の訪日客数が
増加している背景として、以下の２点が指摘可能。
◆直行便の回復と韓国・台湾需要がけん引
第１に、地方直行便の回復。2026年夏の国際
定期便の直行便数では、地方でもコロナ前の2018
年夏を上回る水準まで回復 。訪日旅行者の地方
誘客を促進する取り組みとして大手航空会社が地
方への直行便を増やしており 、航空アクセスの改善
が地方の訪日客増加に寄与。
第２に、韓国や台湾の訪日客による地方需要の
下支え。地方の外国人延べ宿泊者数は中国人が
継続的に減少するなか 、韓国・台湾人が持続的に
増加。韓国と台湾の訪日客はリピーター率が高く 、

地方宿泊率も高い傾向。
地方では、今後訪日客一人当たりの消費額を持
続的に高めていくことが課題 。韓国、台湾などの近
隣諸国は遠方の欧米と比べ、旅行支出は低位にと
どまり、消費拡大の余地あり。訪日リピーターは体験
型消費に意欲的であるため、体験型消費の高付加
価値化や広域周遊の促進を通じて一人当たり消費
額を引き上げる取り組みが重要に。
トピックス①：地方の訪日客数に回復の動き
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
0 20 40 60
全体
台湾韓国
タイ
中国
欧米豪
（リピーター率、％）
（資料）観光庁を基に日本総研作成
（注）2025年。観光・レジャー目的。リピーター率は、その国の訪日客全体
に占めるリピーター（4回以上訪日）の割合。丸が大きいほど１人当
たりの旅行支出が大きいことを表す。
（
地
方
宿
泊
率
、
％
）
リピーター率が高く、
地方宿泊率が高い
地方宿泊率とリピーター率と旅行支出
25
27
29
31
33
35
37
0
3
6
9
12
15
18

2023 2024 2025 2026
地方 都市
地方割合（右目盛り）
（資料）観光庁を基に日本総研作成
（注）2026年は１～５月のデータの年率季調値。都市は埼玉県、千葉
県、東京都、神奈川県、愛知県、京都府、大阪府、兵庫県。地方
はそれ以外の都道府県。以下の図表でも同様。
（％）（千万人）
（年）
外国人延べ宿泊者数（宿泊地別）
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
夏 冬 夏 冬 夏 冬 夏 冬 夏 冬 夏 冬 夏 冬 夏
2019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
地方 都市
(2018年同期=100)
(年)
国際定期便数（直行便）
（資料）国土交通省を基に日本総研作成
（注）都市は成田空港、羽田空港、中部空港、関西空港。地方はそれ以外
の空港。
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
2025 26
韓国＋台湾 中国 その他 全体
（年/月）
（％）
（資料）観光庁を基に日本総研作成
（注）2025年は従業員数10人以上の施設が対象。2026年は客室数20

室以上の施設が対象。
地方の外国人延べ宿泊者数（国別,前年比寄与度)

### Page 9

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月
2027年
４月
飲食料品に係る
消費税率１％
６月 「所得に連動した
きめ細かな給付」
先行導入
2029年
４月 「所得に連動したきめ細かな給付」本格導入
「給付付き税額控除」の理想形・最終形
説明
所得効果
• 生涯所得の増加に応じて消費を拡大
• 時限減税では効果は限定的
• 増税などによる将来的な負担増が想
起されれば、効果はさらに縮小
異時点間
代替効果
• 価格が低いときに消費を前倒し
• 食料品は消費の前倒しが難しいもの
の、贅沢品や嗜好品の消費が増える
可能性
買い控え/
駆け込み
• 減税前後で購入タイミングを変更する
動き
• コメや加工食品といった備蓄可能な
食料品の在庫を積み増す可能性
トピックス②：食料品の消費減税、再増税時の消費減に要注意
8
◆価格変動が消費を下押し
高市首相は2027年４月から飲食料品に係る消
費税率を８％から１％に引き下げ、２年後には税
率を元に戻し、所得連動の給付制度を本格導入す

る方針。もっとも、制度移行が円滑に進んだとしても 、
再増税時には消費が下押しされる見通し。
消費減税が消費に影響を与える経路は 、①所得
効果、②異時点間の代替効果 、③買い控え（駆
け込み）とその反動 、の３つに整理可能 。給付制
度の規模や設計によっては 、制度移行後も家計の
所得は下支えされるものの、２年後に元の税率まで
引き上げられれば 、税込みの食料品価格は上昇 。
このため、減税期間中の代替効果の剥落に加えて、
コメや加工食品など備蓄可能な品目を中心とする
駆け込み消費とその反動により、消費は振れる公算。
◆企業の価格設定にも不透明感
さらに、企業の価格設定次第では 、再増税後の
消費下押し圧力が一段と強まる可能性。過去の欧
州では、付加価値税率の引き下げ分が販売価格に
完全には反映されないケースや 、税率引き下げ時と
引き上げ時で価格反応が非対称となるケースも。とく
にフィンランドでは 、税率復元時の価格反応が引き
下げ時より大きく 、減税終了後の価格が高止まり 。
わが国でも、企業がマージン確保を優先すれば 、再

増税時の消費の落ち込みが一段と強まるリスク。
財政の持続性や公約遵守の観点からは、２年後
の税率引き上げが要請されるものの、再増税すれば
消費は下押しされる見込み。消費減税は導入時に
は家計支援として分かりやすい政策であるものの、出
口局面では、政府に難しい政策判断を迫る可能性。
（資料）内閣官房、首相官邸を基に日本総研作成
つ
な
ぎ
消費減税・給付制度のイメージ
（資料）日本総研作成
消費減税が消費に与える影響
所得効果 代替効果 買い控え／駆け込み
（実質消費）
（資料）次の文献を参考に日本総研作成。宇南山卓[2023]、『現代日本
の消費分析 ライフサイクル理論の現在地』、慶應義塾大学出版会．
アナウンス 減税 再増税
食料品の消費は
減らしにくいため、
買い控えは限定的
コメや加工食品といった
備蓄可能な食料の駆け込み購入
再増税後に
落ち込み
消費減税時の消費の概念図
（資料）各論文を基に日本総研作成
（注）出典は、藤本［2026］.「食料品の消費減税、再増税時の消費減少
は避けられず」、日本総研、リサーチ・アイ、No. 2026-038.を参照。

主な欧州の付加価値税変更時の価格反応
Benzarti
et al.
(2020)
フィンランド
理美容
・非対称（増税時の方が高）
・再増税時の価格転嫁は、減税時の
２倍
EU全体
・非対称（増税時の方が高）
・EUにおける1996～2015年のVAT
変更を分析
Carroll
(2025)
アイルランド
宿泊・観光など
・非対称（増税時の方が高）
・複数回の税率変更を基に、平均的
に判断
Bernardi
no et al.
(2024)
ポルトガル
食品
・対称
・減税時、再増税時ともに、税率変
更分がほぼ完全に価格転嫁
Fuest et
al.
(2021)
ドイツ
スーパーマーケット
・非対称（減税時の方が高）
・再増税時の価格転嫁は、減税時の
半分

### Page 10

日本
(株)日本総合研究所 日本経済展望 2026年9月
(四半期は前期比年率、％、％ポイント)
2026年 2028年
1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3 4～6 7～9 10～12 1～3
（実績）   （実績）
実質ＧＤＰ 1.9 1.4 0.2 0.8 0.9 1.4 1.2 0.9 0.8 0.9 1.0 0.9
個人消費 1.8 0.0 0.5 0.4 0.4 1.8 1.5 0.9 0.8 1.3 0.7 1.1
住宅投資 3.8 ▲ 2.3 0.0 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.3 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 0.5 ▲ 0.5 ▲ 0.5 ▲ 2.6 0.5 ▲ 0.3
設備投資 ▲ 3.9 ▲ 3.7 2.5 1.7 1.7 1.5 1.2 1.2 1.0 2.2 ▲ 0.3 1.5
在庫投資 (寄与度) (▲ 0.2) (    1.0) (▲ 0.1) (    0.1) (    0.1) (    0.1) (    0.1) (    0.1) (    0.0) (▲ 0.1) (    0.0) (    0.1)

政府消費 1.5 6.9 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 1.1 0.8 2.6 1.1
公共投資 5.5 ▲ 1.8 1.0 1.0 1.0 0.9 0.8 0.8 0.8 ▲ 0.3 0.5 0.9
純輸出 (寄与度) (    1.3) (    1.9) (▲ 1.4) (▲ 0.3) (▲ 0.2) (▲ 0.3) (▲ 0.2) (▲ 0.2) (▲ 0.2) (▲ 0.1) (    0.4) (▲ 0.3)
輸出 7.0 1.6 ▲ 0.9 0.9 1.3 1.5 1.6 1.7 1.7 2.0 1.5 1.3
輸入 1.0 ▲ 6.5 4.9 2.3 2.2 2.8 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.5 ▲ 0.3 2.7
（前年同期比、％）
名目ＧＤＰ 3.8 3.5 3.4 3.8 3.6 5.1 2.7 2.2 2.8 4.3 3.6 3.2
ＧＤＰデフレーター 3.2 2.6 2.3 2.9 2.6 4.3 1.7 1.2 1.7 3.3 2.6 2.2

消費者物価指数 (除く生鮮) 1.7 1.5 1.7 2.3 2.3 1.1 1.3 0.8 1.3 2.7 1.9 1.1
(除く生鮮、エネルギー) 2.5 1.8 1.7 2.0 2.0 0.9 1.0 1.1 1.1 3.0 1.9 1.0
鉱工業生産 1.2 1.7 3.4 3.1 1.0 0.7 0.9 1.2 0.9 ▲ 0.2 2.3 0.9
完全失業率 (％) 2.7 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.5 2.6 2.5 2.5
経常収支 (兆円) 9.6 7.8 8.8 7.5 8.6 10.9 8.0 6.5 7.9 34.6 32.7 33.3
対名目ＧＤＰ比 (％) 5.7 4.6 5.2 4.1 4.9 6.1 4.6 3.5 4.3 5.1 4.7 4.6
円ドル相場 (円/ﾄﾞﾙ) 157 159 160 159 158 157 156 156 154 151 159 156
原油輸入価格 (ﾄﾞﾙ/ﾊﾞﾚﾙ) 67 111 81 82 82 79 76 73 73 71 89 75

2025年度 2026年度 2027年度
（予測）　（予測）
2027年
（前年比､％） （前年比､％）
2025年 2026年 2027年 2025年度 2026年度 2027年度
（実績） （予測） （実績） （予測）
米国 2.1 2.1 2.2 6月号 0.8 0.4 0.8
ユーロ圏 1.2 0.8 1.1 7月号 0.8 0.5 1.0
中国 5.0 4.5 4.3 8月号 0.9 0.8 0.9
海外経済の前提 過去の実質ＧＤＰ予測値
景気は回復が続く見通しも、下振れリスクあり
9
わが国主要経済指標の予測値（2026年９月８日時点）
（資料）内閣府、総務省、経済産業省、財務省などを基に日本総研作成
◆回復基調を維持する見通し
わが国景気は緩やかに回復する見通し 。ＷＴＩ
原油先物価格は、今後緩やかに下落していくと想定。
企業部門では、政府による投資支援が追い風とな
り、省人化・ＤＸ化などに向けた投資への需要が根
強いほか、世界的なＡＩ関連需要の高まりも輸出
を下支えする見通し 。中東情勢の悪化を受けた供

給網の混乱も緩和に向かい、企業の生産活動は緩
やかに回復する見込み。
家計部門では 、原油高が夏場以降の物価上昇
圧力に。これに対して 、政府はエネルギー補助金で
物価上昇圧力を一定程度緩和すると想定 。高率
の賃上げが続くなか 、個人消費の増勢は幾分鈍化
しつつも底堅さを維持する見通し。また、2027年度
からは、食料品にかかる消費税率が引き下げられる
ことも、個人消費の下支え要因に。
◆中東情勢と金利上昇がリスク
2026年度の実質ＧＤＰ成長率は＋1.0％、27
年度は＋0.9％と予想。
もっとも、中東情勢が再燃 ・長期化した場合 、①
輸出の下押し 、②原材料の供給制約 、③物価の
上昇などの経路から、景気への下押し圧力が一段と
強まるリスク。また、高市政権の財政スタンスを巡って
市場の財政懸念が強まれば 、円安が一段と進むほ
か、長期金利が上昇し 、投資支援策やエネルギー
補助金、消費減税といった緩和的な政策の縮小 ・
撤回を迫られる可能性。

### Page 11

金利上昇が住宅市場に及ぼす影響 ― 変容する「ハウジング・チャネル」、若年層や子育て世
帯の負担拡大も ―
松田健太郎
西岡慎一 9月7日
地方の訪日客数に回復の動き ―直行便の増加と韓国・台湾訪日客による需要が後押し― 久野晨人 8月26日
≪2040年の日本経済シリーズ③≫ 長期金利の上昇でドーマー条件は2030年に不成立局
面に ―金融政策の正常化を前提とした政策運営を―
村瀬拓人
西岡慎一 8月6日
食料品の消費減税、再増税時の消費減少は避けられず ― 時限減税は、終了時の価格上
昇と消費の反動減を招く可能性 ― 藤本一輝 8月5日
日本経済見通し 国内経済
チーム 7月31日
年後半に再び強まる消費者物価の上昇圧力 ― 原油価格50%上昇でCPI上昇率を＋
0.6%ポイント押し上げ、価格転嫁の進展で一段の上振れも ― 小林佑里恵 7月27日
政策がもたらす物価負担感の世帯間格差 ― 高齢世帯は相対的に高いインフレ率に直面、
子育て世帯は家計負担の軽減を実感しづらい可能性 ― 藤本一輝 7月8日

【2026～27年度日本経済見通し】供給面から成長が制約される日本経済 ～ 国内外から
強まる制約 ～
国内経済
チーム 6月30日
公表済みのレポート（日本経済関連）
詳細は、以下のリンクからPDF形式でご覧いただけます。

### Page 12

日本総合研究所主催 シンポジウムのご案内
米中対立の常態化や米国の自国第一主義の強まりを背景に、既存の国際経済秩序が揺らいでいます。こうしたなか、各国は存
在感を高めるグローバルサウス諸国との外交・経済関係の強化を急いでいます。日本も、OECD（経済協力開発機構）などと協調し
ながら、関係強化を目指していますが、現状はASEANやインドなどに偏重しており、アフリカや中南米との連携は限定的です。本シン
ポジウムでは、はじめに世界経済の構造変化や日本のグローバルサウス諸国との連携策の現状・課題を多角的に検証します。その
上で、日本がグローバルサウス諸国との関係を深化させるための具体的な戦略を議論します。
台頭するグローバルサウス
多極化世界における共創と日本の役割
上田 奈生子 氏
OECD（経済協力開発機構）
東京センター所長
遠藤 貢 氏
東京大学
大学院総合文化研究科 教授
末廣 昭 氏
東京大学名誉教授
若林 厚仁
調査部
マクロ経済研究センター所長
熊谷 章太郎
調査部 上席主任研究員

2026年11月13日［金］
14:30－17:00（開場14:00）

---
## Document 549: 注目のキーワード『カスタマーハラスメント』

Source PDF: all report pdf/注目のキーワード『カスタマーハラスメント』.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

注目のキーワード 「カスタマーハラスメント」
2026年10月1日、 労働施策総合推進法の改正が施行されます。 今回の改正で注目されるのが、 企業に対する 「カスタマー
ハラスメン ト （カスハラ） 」 対策の義務化です。 これまで企業には、 職場におけるパワーハラスメン トやセクシュアルハラスメン ト
などへの防止措置が求められてきましたが、 今回の改正では、 顧客や取引先などからの著しい迷惑行為から従業員を守ること
も、 企業の雇用管理上の義務に加わります。
ここでいうカスハラとは、 顧客などの言動が社会通念上許容される範囲を超え、 その結果と して労働者の就業環境が害され
るものです。 例えば、 長時間にわたる執拗なクレーム、 暴言や脅迫、 過度な謝罪の要求などが該当する可能性があります。 一
方、 商品やサービスへの正当な苦情までカスハラになるわけではありません。 何がカスハラに当たるのかは、 要求の内容だけ
でなく、 その手段や態様なども含めて判断されます。
10月以降、 企業には、 カスハラから従業員を守る方針を明確にして社内に周知することや、 相談窓口を設けることなどが求

められます。 さらに、 実際に被害が発生した場合には、 従業員の心身への配慮や、 事実関係の確認、 再発防止などにつなげる体
制も必要になります。 つまり、 現場の従業員一人に顧客対応を任せるのではなく、 会社と して対応する仕組みを整えることが
重要になります。
今回の法改正の背景には、 暴言や不当要求など犯罪行為にも等しい悪質な行為が深刻な社会問題となっていることがあり
ます。 顧客からの過度な要求によって従業員が疲弊し、 離職に追い込まれれば、 深刻化する人手不足の中で企業にと っても計
り知れない損失です。 人材の確保が難しい時代には、 従業員を守り、 安心して働ける環境をつくること自体が企業における重
要な経営課題になっています。
「お客様は神様」 という言葉に象徴されるように、 日本では顧客満足を重視する文化が根付いてきました。 しかし、 サービス
の質を高めることと、 従業員が過度な負担を負うことは別の問題です。 今回の法改正は、 企業と顧客の関係を見直し、 「顧客満
足」 と 「働く人の保護」 を両立させる転換点になるかもしれません。

（経済調査部　主席エコノミス ト　阿原　健一郎）
日米の金融政策に対する市場の見方が8月以降俄に変わり始めた。 景気やインフレを取り巻く環境に大きな変
化が出たわけではないが、 日本の利上げ期待台頭の背景には、 インフレの定着や為替市場における円の下落基調
を受けて、 低すぎる金利の修正が必要とされている。 一方、 米国では景気が好調に拡大する中で、 FRBの目標を上
回るペースで上昇するインフレを抑制するためには、 利上げが必要との見方が出ている。
日本では0.25％の利上げで政策金利水準が1.25％になれば、 ようやく景気を刺激も抑制もしないと考えられる
中立金利水準に入ってくる。 景気を刺激する力は喪失するものの、 景気を抑制する力は働かないと考えられる。 日
銀は、 日本の中立金利水準を1.1～2.5％程度と試算しており、 景気に抑制的な力が生じる金利水準はまだ遠い。
一方、 FRBは米国の中立金利水準を3.00～3.50％と試算しており、 3.50～3.75％となる8月末の水準から

0.25％の利上げを行えば、 景気を抑制する水準に入ると考えられる。
金融政策の変更が景気に影響するには1～2年程度のタイムラグがあると考えられている。 したがって、 利上げ
が直ちに日米の景気に影響を及ぼすとは考えにくい。 しかし、 景気の先行きを読む金融市場には相応の影響が出
る可能性は否定できない。
一般的に、 金利の上昇は株価の上昇を抑制し、 債券利回りを上昇 （債券価格は下落） させ、 通貨高圧力を高める。
さらに、 金利が中立水準を超え、 景気を抑制する効果が懸念される事態となれば、 株価は下落基調に転じ、 債券利
回りは長期ゾーンから低下に転じ、 通貨価値にも下落圧力が生じる。 その点では、 0.25％の利上げで政策金利が
景気中立水準を超える米国の利上げが、 市場の方向性を変えうる力を持つ点に注意が必要だ。   （嶌峰 義清）
時事雑感
14第一ライフ研レポー ト 2026.10

---
## Document 610: 群益-6279 胡連-20260914

Source PDF: all report pdf/群益-6279 胡連-20260914.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

個股報告  
                                        2026 年 9 月 14 日

1 群益投顧 
研究員：陳執中 tc.chen@capital.com.tw 
前日收盤價  111.00 元
目標價  
3 個月  130.00 元
12 個月  130.00 元

近期報告日期、評等及前日股價  
02/26/2026 Trading Buy 111.0 元
10/23/2025 Trading Buy 133.5 元
04/30/2025 Trading Buy 157.5 元
04/16/2025 Buy 143.5 元
04/09/2025 N eutral 137.0 元

公司基本資訊  
目前股本 (百萬元 ) 1,190
市值 (億元 ) 132
目前每股淨值 (元 ) 76.13
外資持股比 (%) 9.02
投信持股比 (%) 0.41
董監持股比 (%) 16.48
融資餘額 (張 ) 2,333
現金股息配發率 (%) 51.21

產品組合

股價相對大盤走勢

胡連 (6279 TT)  Buy

2027 年營運動能向上，投資建議 Buy。  
投資建議 Buy：2026 年營收穩健增長，但受到原物料價格影響，
整體獲利表現持平。在高頻高壓、 PCB 保險絲盒新產品、中國
以外市場、海外併購帶動下，預估 2027 年營運動能向上。投資
建議 Buy ，目標價 130 元 (以 2027 年 EPS 及 PE 10 倍評價 )。  
預估 3Q26 營運提升 ： 3Q26 方面，預估營收 29.54 億元，
QoQ+7.56% 、YoY+26.99% 。主要成長動能來自於中國客戶需求
放量、高頻高速連接器與 PCB 保險絲盒出貨續揚、東南亞及歐
美市場維持成長趨勢。獲利能力方面，營收規模提升，但仍受
到原物料 (銅價、塑料 )成本上漲影響，預估毛利率小幅增長，營
業利益 4.40 億元， QoQ+15.45% 、YoY+36.33% 。因業外淨收入、
稅率影響相對有限，預估稅後純益 3.70 億元， QoQ+11.15% 、
YoY+21.49% ， EPS 3.11 元。  
預估 2026 年營運表現穩健， 2027 年營運動能向上： 預估 2026
營收 110.60 億元， YoY+12.59% ： (1) 因中國新能源車購置稅改
為減半徵收，且以舊換新政策改採比例補貼，中國市場需求相
對保守。但公司與中國車廠客戶合作關係穩定，預估營收小幅
增長。 (2) 歐洲市場先前延後的專案將進入量產階段，有助於
2026 年營收表現。 (3) 越南市場受惠於美國電動車客戶低壓產品
帶動，出貨量可望明顯提升。印尼市場則因比亞迪於當地投產，
帶動 PCB 保險絲盒銷售成長。 (4) 美國市場則受惠於鏟雪車客戶
需求復甦，且 PCB 保險絲盒新產品開始出貨，營收明顯攀升。
獲利能力方面，雖營收規模持續擴大，但因原物料 (銅、塑料 )成
本攀升，預估毛利率持續受壓，營業利益 YoY-7.88% 。由於業
外較無一次性匯兌損失影響且稅率平穩 ， 預估稅後純益 13.09 億
元， YoY+4.05% ，EPS 11.00 元。 2027 年方面，雖然主要的中國
車廠客戶銷售目標多於 10~11 月間釋出，但以目前產品開發與
合作案來看，公司於 2027 年持審慎樂觀態度。成長亮點包含：
(1) 近年積極推動的高頻高速連接器與 PCB 保險絲盒將持續成
長。 (2) 中國以外市場持續成長。 (3) 海外併購擴增版圖。

(百萬元) 2026F 2027F 2028F 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26 2Q26 3Q26F 4Q26F 1Q27F 2Q27F 
營業收入淨額 11,060 12,395 13,765 2,167 2,326 3,002 2,123 2,747 2,954 3,236 2,701 2,926 
營業毛利淨額 3,159 3,697 4,116 726 689 936 566 767 857 969 787 857 
營業利益 1,511 1,912 2,249 385 323 537 181 381 440 509 377 424 
稅後純益 1,309 1,544 1,814 91 305 528 191 333 370 415 308 332 
稅後 EPS(元) 11.00 12.97 15.24 0.76 2.56 4.44 1.60 2.80 3.11 3.49 2.59 2.79 
毛利率(%) 28.56% 29.82% 29.90% 33.50% 29.63% 31.18% 26.65% 27.93% 29.02% 29.94% 29.12% 29.29% 
營業利益率(%) 13.66% 15.43% 16.34% 17.77% 13.87% 17.88% 8.53% 13.87% 14.89% 15.74% 13.95% 14.50% 
稅後純益率(%) 11.84% 12.45% 13.18% 4.19% 13.10% 17.59% 8.99% 12.13% 12.53% 12.83% 11.40% 11.35% 
營業收入 YoY/QoQ(%) 12.59% 12.07% 11.05% -6.88% 7.33% 29.05% -29.27% 29.35% 7.56% 9.53% -16.51% 8.31% 
稅後純益 YoY/QoQ(%) 4.05% 17.89% 17.53% -72.92% 235.77% 73.29% -63.84% 74.46% 11.15% 12.19% -25.82% 7.79% 
註：稅後純益係指本期淨利歸屬於母公司業主；稅後 EPS 以股本 11.90 億元計算。

### Page 2

個股報告  
                                        2026 年 9 月 14 日

2 群益投顧 
  胡連 (6279 TT) ESG ：  
胡連精密以追求高效營運與永續共榮為核心， 將 ESG 理念落實於產品研發 、
生產製造與供應鏈管理等三大營運環節。在環境面，胡連積極佈局低碳轉型
與資源循環，完成集團溫室氣體盤查並獲 ISO 14064-1 認證，設定集團碳密
度每年下降 10% 的具體目標，導入產品生命週期管理系統與 ISO 14067 碳足
跡盤查，研發新能源車及智能駕駛專用連接器與高壓線束方案，推動汽車產
業綠色變革；製造端除擴大台北與越南等基地的自建太陽能系統、顯著拉升
再生能源使用占比，並規劃全面取得綠色工廠標章，廠區亦導入廢棄物智能
溯源與擴大再生銅、再生塑料及包材的循環再利用，同時要求供應商遵循
RoHS 與 REACH 環保法規、執行 ESG 現場稽核並提升在地採購比例。在社
會面，胡連以人為本構築幸福職場，推行透明暢通的管理機制，並長期投資
人才培訓、走入校園推動青年就業與關鍵技術傳承，對內推動志工假與結合
日常運動與植樹的健康促進方案；對外則長年深耕在地回饋，並配合地方政
府建立防汛與救災物資調度網絡，遇重大災害第一時間投入急難救助。在治
理面，胡連秉持誠信經營原則，持續加大車用關鍵技術的研發投資以創造穩
健利潤，建立完善的風險控制體系，全面強化資訊安全管理以嚴密保護智慧
財產權與核心營業秘密，並要求合作夥伴秉持相同的高標準道德規範，構築
穩定透明且值得長期信賴的產業生態系。  
公司概況：  
胡連精密 (6279 TT) 成立於 1977 年，初期從事金屬沖壓零件產品，於 2004
年切入塑膠連接器產品。胡連為國內車用電子連接器的主要供應廠 (Tier 2)
之一，主要生產車用端子和塑件，產品以 OEM 為主，主要供應 Tier 1 零件
廠。胡連終端汽車客戶包括全球主要的汽車品牌大廠及中國自主品牌廠，並
以中國自主品牌客戶為主。比亞迪、吉利汽車、長安汽車、美系電動車客戶、
奇瑞汽車、上汽通用五菱等車廠皆為胡連中國市場重要客戶。  
營收組成方面，以區域比重來看，中國市場為主要市場，占 2Q26 營收比重
為 76.2% 、台灣占 4.7% ，越南、印尼分別各占 2.7% 、 2.3% ，其他亞太地區
占 5.8% ，而美洲占 5.1% 、歐洲占 3.3% 。以產品組合來看，端子占 2Q26 營
收比重 28.4% 、塑件占 35.4% 、保險絲盒占 11.6% 、線束占 10.7% 、板端件
占 6.1% 、高頻產品占 5.1% 、高壓產品占 0.7% 。  
圖一、地區別 /產品別營收占比

資料來源：胡連，群益投顧彙整

### Page 3

個股報告  
                                        2026 年 9 月 14 日

3 群益投顧 
預估 3Q26 營收 29.54 億元 ，QoQ+7.56% ， 稅後純益3.70 億元 ，QoQ+11.15% ，
EPS 3.11 元：  
3Q26 方面，預估營收 29.54 億元， QoQ+7.56% 、 YoY+26.99% 。主要成長動
能來自於中國客戶需求放量、高頻高速連接器與 PCB 保險絲盒出貨續揚、
東南亞及歐美市場維持成長趨勢。獲利能力方面，營收規模提升，但仍受到
原物料 (銅價、塑料 )成本上漲影響，預估毛利率小幅增長，營業利益 4.40 億
元， QoQ+15.45% 、 YoY+36.33% 。因業外淨收入、稅率影響相對有限，預估
稅後純益 3.70 億元， QoQ+11.15% 、 YoY+21.49% ， EPS 3.11 元。  
預估 4Q26 營收 32.36 億元 ，QoQ+9.53% ， 稅後純益4.15 億元 ，QoQ+12.19% ，
EPS 3.49 元：  
4Q26 方面，預估營收 32.36 億元， QoQ+9.53% 、 YoY+7.78% 。受惠於中國
客戶出貨增長、東南亞廠區 PCB 保險絲盒出貨提升、海外併購案開始貢獻
營收， 4Q26 營收持續季增、年增；但因 4Q25 營收基期較高， 4Q26 營收年
增幅度相對趨緩。獲利能力方面，由於稼動率上升且高頻高壓產品、 PCB 保
險絲盒營收占比提升，預估 4Q26 毛利率將接近 30%，營業利益 5.09 億元，
QoQ+15.81% 、 YoY-5.12% 。若業外、稅率持穩，預估稅後純益 4.15 億元，
QoQ+12.19% ， YoY-21.34% ， EPS 3.49 元。  
預估 2026 年營運表現穩健， 2027 年營運動能向上：  
2026 年方面，預估營收 110.60 億元， YoY+12.59% ： (1) 因中國新能源車購
置稅改為減半徵收，且以舊換新政策改採比例補貼，中國市場需求相對保
守。但公司與中國車廠客戶合作關係穩定，預估營收小幅增長。 (2) 歐洲市場
先前延後的專案將進入量產階段，有助於 2026 年營收表現。 (3) 越南市場受
惠於美國電動車客戶低壓產品帶動，出貨量可望明顯提升。印尼市場則因比
亞迪於當地投產，帶動 PCB 保險絲盒銷售成長。 (4) 美國市場則受惠於鏟雪
車客戶需求復甦，且 PCB 保險絲盒新產品開始出貨，營收明顯攀升。獲利
能力方面，雖營收規模持續擴大，但因原物料 (銅、塑料 )成本攀升，預估毛
利率持續受壓，營業利益 YoY-7.88% 。由於業外較無一次性匯兌損失影響且
稅率平穩，預估稅後純益 13.09 億元， YoY+4.05% ， EPS 11.00 元。  
2027 年方面，雖然主要的中國車廠客戶銷售目標多於 10~11 月間釋出，但
以目前產品開發與合作案來看，公司於 2027 年持審慎樂觀態度。成長亮點
包含： (1) 近年積極推動的高頻高速連接器與 PCB 保險絲盒將持續成長。其
中， PCB 保險絲盒已成功打入長安、上汽、東風及嵐圖等自主品牌供應鏈，
且受比亞迪平台化車型 (5 款 )採用。 (2) 中國以外市場持續成長。越南廠導入
美國電動車客戶連接器產品，將穩定貢獻月營收。印尼廠比亞迪 PCB 保險
絲盒已於 4Q26 開始小量交貨 。 歐洲市場則取得 BMW 連接器產品首次訂單 。
(3) 海外併購擴增版圖。歐洲超跑線束廠預計最快於 10/2026 開始貢獻營收。
另一家海外線束廠處於議價階段。預估 2027 年營收 123.95 億元，
YoY+12.07% ， 毛利率小幅回升 ， 營業利益YoY+26.55% 。 預估稅後純益 15.44
億元， YoY+17.89% ， EPS 12.97 元。  
投資建議：  
投資建議方面， 2026 年營收穩健增長，但受到原物料價格影響，整體獲利
表現持平。在高頻高壓、 PCB 保險絲盒新產品、中國以外市場、海外併購帶

### Page 4

個股報告  
                                        2026 年 9 月 14 日

4 群益投顧 
動下，預估 2027 年營運動能向上。投資建議 Buy ，目標價 130 元 (以 2027
年 EPS 及 PE 10 倍評價 )。  
Forward PE Band 
資料來源：CMoney，群益預估彙整

Forward PB Band

資料來源：CMoney，群益預估彙整

### Page 5

個股報告  
                                        2026 年 9 月 14 日

5 群益投顧 
資產負債表 2013          損益表       
(百萬元) 2024 2025 2026F 2027F 2028F  (百萬元) 2024 2025 2026F 2027F 2028F 
資產總計 14,118 15,764 17,425 18,689 20,149  營業收入淨額 8,800 9,823 11,060 12,395 13,765 
流動資產 8,626 9,583 11,089 12,188 13,469  營業成本 5,870 6,734 7,901 8,699 9,649 
現金及約當現金 1,129 906 1,239 1,265 1,449  營業毛利淨額 2,930 3,089 3,159 3,697 4,116 
應收帳款與票據 4,738 5,122 5,241 5,490 5,673  營業費用 1,348 1,449 1,648 1,785 1,867 
存貨 2,173 2,738 2,890 3,021 3,430  營業利益 1,582 1,640 1,511 1,912 2,249 
採權益法之投資 26 40 42 45 50  EBITDA 2,407 2,294 2,312 2,668 3,019 
不動產、廠房設備 5,018 5,658 5,778 5,898 6,018  業外收入及支出  193 -92 136 78 78 
負債總計 6,693 6,702 7,690 8,070 8,434  稅前純益  1,774 1,548 1,647 1,990 2,327 
流動負債 5,303 6,411 7,296 7,570 7,831  所得稅  459 282 320 391 457 
應付帳款及票據 1,561 1,946 2,037 2,158 2,284  稅後純益 1,310 1,258 1,309 1,544 1,814 
非流動負債 1,390 291 304 289 266  稅後 EPS(元) 11.01 10.57 11.00 12.97 15.24 
權益總計 7,426 9,062 9,735 10,619 11,715  完全稀釋 EPS** 11.01 10.57 11.00 12.97 15.24 
普通股股本 1,027 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190  註 1：稅後純益係指本期淨利歸屬於母公司業主。 384.11 
保留盈餘 5,115 5,755 6,428 7,312 8,408  註 2：稅後 EPS 以股本 11.90【最新股本】億元計算 384.10594 
母公司業主權益 7,377 9,008 9,663 10,492 11,533  註 3：完全稀釋 EPS 以股本 11.90 億元計算  
負債及權益總計 14,118 15,764 17,425 18,689 20,149         
             比率分析      
             (百萬元) 2024 2025 2026F 2027F 2028F 
現金流量表            成長力分析(%)      
(百萬元) 2024 2025 2026F 2027F 2028F  營業收入淨額 20.04% 11.63% 12.59% 12.07% 11.05% 
營業活動現金 1,267 1,082 2,023 1,870 2,182  營業毛利淨額 24.73% 5.43% 2.26% 17.02% 11.35% 
稅前純益 1,774 1,548 1,647 1,990 2,327  營業利益 29.49% 3.70% -7.88% 26.55% 17.60% 
折舊及攤銷 584 699 664 678 692  稅後純益 42.25% -3.97% 4.05% 17.89% 17.53% 
營運資金變動 -1,235 -564 -179 -260 -465  獲利能力分析(%)      
其他營運現金 144 -601 -110 -538 -371  毛利率 33.29% 31.45% 28.56% 29.82% 29.90% 
投資活動現金 -1,574 -1,345 -1,232 -1,242 -1,254  EBITDA(%) 27.36% 23.35% 20.90% 21.53% 21.93% 
資本支出淨額 -1,526 -1,225 -1,200 -1,200 -1,200  營益率 17.97% 16.70% 13.66% 15.43% 16.34% 
長期投資變動 -27 -108 0 0 0  稅後純益率 14.89% 12.81% 11.84% 12.45% 13.18% 
其他投資現金 -20 -12 -32 -42 -54  總資產報酬率 9.28% 7.98% 7.51% 8.26% 9.00% 
籌資活動現金 455 52 -458 -602 -744  股東權益報酬率 17.65% 13.89% 13.45% 14.54% 15.49% 
長借/公司債變動 0 7 13 -15 -22  償債能力檢視      
現金增資 0 0 0 0 0  負債比率(%) 47.41% 42.52% 44.13% 43.18% 41.86% 
發放現金股利 -498 -680 -655 -714 -774  負債/淨值比(%) 90.13% 73.96% 79.00% 76.00% 72.00% 
其他籌資現金 953 725 183 128 52  流動比率(%) 162.64% 149.48% 152.00% 161.00% 172.00% 
淨現金流量 132 -222 333 26 184  其他比率分析      
期初現金 996 1,129 906 1,239 1,265  存貨天數 121.41 133.09 130.00 124.00 122.00 
期末現金 1,129 906 1,239 1,265 1,449  應收帳款天數 171.05 183.19 171.00 158.00 148.00 
資料來源：CMoney、群益

### Page 6

個股報告  
                                        2026 年 9 月 14 日

6 群益投顧 
季度損益表  
(百萬元) 1Q25 2Q25 3Q25 4Q25 1Q26 2Q26 3Q26F 4Q26F 1Q27F 2Q27F 3Q27F 4Q27F 
營業收入淨額 2,328 2,167 2,326 3,002 2,123 2,747 2,954 3,236 2,701 2,926 3,146 3,622 
營業成本 1,590 1,441 1,637 2,066 1,558 1,979 2,097 2,267 1,915 2,069 2,201 2,514 
營業毛利淨額 738 726 689 936 566 767 857 969 787 857 945 1,108 
營業費用 342 341 367 399 385 386 418 459 410 433 448 494 
營業利益 396 385 323 537 181 381 440 509 377 424 497 614 
業外收入及支出 44 -308 61 110 65 33 19 19 19 19 19 19 
稅前純益 440 77 384 647 246 414 459 529 396 444 516 634 
所得稅 103 -15 78 117 53 79 87 100 75 98 98 120 
稅後純益 335 91 305 528 191 333 370 415 308 332 404 499 
最新股本 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 1,190 
稅後EPS(元) 2.82 0.76 2.56 4.44 1.60 2.80 3.11 3.49 2.59 2.79 3.40 4.20 
獲利能力(%)             
毛利率(%) 31.70% 33.50% 29.63% 31.18% 26.65% 27.93% 29.02% 29.94% 29.12% 29.29% 30.04% 30.59% 
營業利益率(%) 17.01% 17.77% 13.87% 17.88% 8.53% 13.87% 14.89% 15.74% 13.95% 14.50% 15.79% 16.96% 
稅後純益率(%) 14.40% 4.19% 13.10% 17.59% 8.99% 12.13% 12.53% 12.83% 11.40% 11.35% 12.84% 13.79% 
QoQ(%)             
營業收入淨額 -16.04% -6.88% 7.33% 29.05% -29.27% 29.35% 7.56% 9.53% -16.51% 8.31% 7.52% 15.12% 
營業利益 -31.09% -2.71% -16.24% 66.42% -66.27% 110.37% 15.45% 15.81% -26.00% 12.54% 17.10% 23.69% 
稅前純益 -20.13% -82.46% 397.02% 68.65% -61.99% 68.18% 11.03% 15.14% -25.04% 11.93% 16.35% 22.80% 
稅後純益 -11.62% -72.92% 235.77% 73.29% -63.84% 74.46% 11.15% 12.19% -25.82% 7.79% 21.70% 23.59% 
YoY(%)             
營業收入淨額 23.16% 8.73% 8.46% 8.29% -8.77% 26.72% 26.99% 7.78% 27.22% 6.53% 6.49% 11.93% 
營業利益 14.42% 19.33% -4.74% -6.55% -54.26% -1.09% 36.33% -5.12% 108.16% 11.36% 12.95% 20.63% 
稅前純益 6.83% -80.85% -6.06% 17.42% -44.12% 435.78% 19.68% -18.28% 61.16% 7.26% 12.40% 19.87% 
稅後純益 1.37% -68.67% -2.09% 39.25% -43.03% 267.03% 21.49% -21.34% 61.37% -0.30% 9.16% 20.25% 
註1：稅後EPS以股本11.90億元計算 
註2：稅後純益係指本期淨利歸屬於母公司業主。

### Page 7

個股報告  
                                        2026 年 9 月 14 日

7 群益投顧 
  【投資評等說明】  
  評等  定義  
  強力買進 (Strong Buy)  首次評等潛在上漲空間 ≥ 35%  
  買進 (Buy)  15% ≤首次評等潛在上漲空間 <35%  
  區間操作 (Trading Buy) 5% ≤首次評等潛在上漲空間 <15%

中立 (Neutral)  
無法由基本面給予投資評等  
預期近期股價將處於盤整  
建議降低持股

【投資評等調整機制】  
  投資評等係「首次」給予特定個股投資評等時，其前一日收盤價相較 3 個月
目標價之潛在上漲空間計算而得。個股投資評等分為四個等級，定義如上。
爾後的投資評等係依循「首次評等」，直到停止推薦。   
「強力買進」、「買進」及「區間操作」均有 upside 目標價。差別僅在於，
首次評等時潛在報酬率不同。「中立」則無目標價。  
一旦我們給予特定個股「強力買進」 、 「買進」或「區間操作」之投資評等，
就是責任的開始，爾後將透過各式研究報告作定期性、持續性追蹤基本面及
股價變化，直到停止推薦。  
停止推薦情境：  
1.  達目標價。  
2.  雖未達原訂目標價，但檢視基本面、訊息面、籌碼面等多方訊息，研
判股價上漲空間已然有限，將適時出具降評報告。  
3.  推薦後股價不漲反跌。

【免責聲明】  
  本研究報告僅提供予特定人之客戶作為參考資料「非經同意不得轉載」 。我
們並不確保此資訊的完整性與正確性，投資人應了解，報告中有關未來預測
之陳述可能不會實現，因而不應被依賴。而且此報告並非根據特定投資目的
或依預定對象之財務狀況所撰寫出來的，因此，此研究報告的目的，既非對
投資人於買賣證券、選擇權、期貨或其他證券相關之衍生性商品提供詢價服
務，亦非作為進行交易的要約。投資人應注意到相關證券之價值及收益，可
能會有無預警地上升或下降，產生投資回報金額可能比原始投資來得少的
情形。

---
## Document 646: 長期金利３％到達の基本的な理解

Source PDF: all report pdf/長期金利３％到達の基本的な理解.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 9 月 2 日(水)

1/4 
長期金利３％到達の基本的な理解 
 経済調査部主席エコノミスト藤代宏一 
（℡：050-5474-6123）

・日本の10年金利が節目の３％を突破した。節目水準を跨いだことを殊更に強調するのは慎重
でありたいが、ここで長期金利上昇の背景を整理したい。①海外金利の上昇、②日銀の利上
げ観測の高まり、③財政政策に対する反応、これら３つの要素に大別することができよう。

・海外金利は米国のみならずドイツでもはっきりと上昇している。米国の10年金利は4.8％が視
界に入っており、2023年10月19日に付けた4.99％の更新もあり得る状況になってきた。30年
金利は５％を超える水準で推移している。この間、ドイツでは10年金利と30年金利が共に
2023年水準を上抜けており、金利上昇は世界的なものと言える。2026年３月以降の原油高が
足もとの物価上昇率を押し上げると共に、中央銀行の利上げ観測が高まったことが背景にあ
る。長期金利上昇は日本に固有の現象ではない。

・日経平均株価は先行き12 ヶ月72,000 円程度で推移するだろう 
・USD/JPY は先行き12 ヶ月 155 円程度で推移するだろう 
・日銀は政策金利を９月に1.25％とした後、27 年末までに2.25％とするだろう 
・FED はFF 金利を、年内は3.75％で据え置くだろう

### Page 2

2/4

・日本の長期金利上昇の要因として、日銀の利上げ観測の高まりは特に重要であろう。市場参
加者が予想するターミナルレート水準を映じるとされる２年先１年金利は、2.5％近傍まで水
準が切り上がっている。２年先１年金利とは「２年後にワープしたとして、その時点におけ
る１年物の金利は何％になっているか」を現在の金利から逆算したものである。このことは
概ね３～４ヶ月に一度の利上げが今後２年程度続き、約６回の利上げ（1回0.25％）が織り込
まれていることを意味する。ここで２年先１年金利と10年金利を比較してみると、この間の
長期金利上昇に利上げ観測の高まりが強く関係していることがわかる。2026年初からの変化
幅でみると、10年金利は0.94％ptの上昇、２年先１年金利は0.80％ptの上昇となっている。
因みに筆者は日銀の政策金利は９月に1.25％に引き上げられた後、2027年末までに2.25％に
到達すると見込み、ターミナルレートは2.25％～2.50％になると想定している。

3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
23 24 25 26
米国 長期金利
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
（％）
10年金利
30年金利
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
23 24 25 26
ドイツ 長期金利
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
（％）
10年金利
30年金利
y = 1.3129x
R² = 0.9977
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0
日本 10年金利・2y1y
（2y1y％）
（10年％）
（備考）Bloombergより作成 2025.6以降
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
22 23 24 25 26
日本 ２年先１年金利
(備考)Bloombergにより作成
（％）

### Page 3

3/4 
・日銀の利上げは、基本的に賃金と物価の基調に基づいて決定される。経済構造がデフレ型か
らインフレ型に切り替わった現状、金融政策が正常化して長期金利が上昇するのは自明の理
とも言える。金融政策を、財政政策要因に起因するインフレ圧力と完全に切り離すことはで
きないが、長期金利上昇は賃金と物価に応じた金融政策の動きで概ね説明可能であることを
認識する必要があろう。デフレ下の超低金利という異常な世界に長くいたことで、インフレ
下で金利のある正常な世界への回帰を「異常」であると捉えてしまう側面があるように思え
る。

・財政政策要因については、国債需給の緩みが意識されていることに疑いの余地はない。事
実、足もとでは2027年度予算の概算要求額が143兆円になると報じられたことが材料視され
た。もっとも、当初予算が膨らむこと自体は予め想定されていたことであり、また規模感は
事前予想対比で必ずしも大きくはない。高市政権では、コロナ後に常態化しつつあった10～
20兆円規模の補正予算について、本来あるべき姿に戻すとして、緊急性の高い対象に絞るこ
とが明確化されている。その分だけ当初予算が膨らんだものと理解でき、事実、前年度当初
予算と補正予算との合計でみれば、純増分は大きくない。もちろん、補正予算が本当に縮小
されるかは現時点で判然とせず、財政規律の緩みに対する警戒感は今後も燻る可能性が高
い。もっとも、これまでの金利上昇の「主因」を財政政策要因に求めるのはやや無理がある
ように思える。

-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
90 95 00 05 10 15 20 25
賃金・物価・政策金利
(備考）総務省、厚生労働省、日銀により作成
（前年比、％）
賃金
(所定内給与)
消費者物価
（除く生鮮食品）
政策金利

### Page 4

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
4/4

107.6 114.4 112.6 115.5 122.3 
36.0 31.6 
13.2 13.9 
18.3 
143
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
当初予算額 補正予算（前年分）
予算額の推移
（兆円）
（出所）財務省より作成

---
## Document 659: ９月ＦＯＭＣは利上げ見送りと予想

Source PDF: all report pdf/９月ＦＯＭＣは利上げ見送りと予想.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 9 月 11 日(金)

1/2 
９月ＦＯＭＣは利上げ見送りと予想   
 経済調査部主席エコノミスト藤代宏一 
（℡：050-5474-6123）

・９月ＦＯＭＣにおける利上げの有無を占う最重要指標は９月11日公表の８月ＣＰＩである
が、その前哨戦的な位置付けである８月ＰＰＩが９月10日に発表された。ヘッドラインの数
値は概ね市場予想通りであったものの、ＰＣＥデフレーターに算入される複数の項目が強め
の数値となり、同デフレーターの予想値の上方修正に繋がり得る結果であった。なお、８月
ＣＰＩは前月比＋0.4％、前年比＋3.4％、コアＣＰＩは前月比＋0.2％、前年比＋2.4％が見
込まれている。前年比の数値はヘッドラインＣＰＩが前月から不変、コアＣＰＩは0.1％pt低
下予想となっている。

・８月ＰＰＩを通過して、ＦＦ金利先物が織り込む９月ＦＯＭＣにおける利上げ確率は70％程
度まで約10％pt高まった。先週来、原油価格が上昇していることも利上げ観測の高まりに繋
がっているとみられる。トランプ大統領がイランとの戦闘終結が中間選挙後の11月になると
の見通しを示したことでＷＴＩ原油は103ドルに到達した。当然のことながら、米国を含む世
界のインフレ加速要因となる。

・米10年金利は4.96％となり、５％到達が視界に入った。ここで、長期金利上昇を簡便に要因
分解すると、８月１日との比較では予想インフレ率（10年ＢＥＩ）が＋15bp、実質金利（物
・日経平均株価は先行き12 ヶ月72,000 円程度で推移するだろう 
・USD/JPY は先行き12 ヶ月 155 円程度で推移するだろう 
・日銀は政策金利を９月に1.25％とした後、27 年末までに2.25％とするだろう 
・FED はFF 金利を、年内は3.75％で据え置くだろう

### Page 2

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
2/2 
価連動債利回り）が＋13bpとほぼ同程度の寄与度となっている。予想インフレ率主導で名目
長期金利が上向いているのであれば、Ｆｅｄが引き締めを強化すれば、長期金利を下げるこ
とは理論上可能になるのだが、足もとの金利上昇はそうした単純な構図になく、対処が難し
い。それゆえ、市場参加者も米国債買いに慎重にならざるを得ないのだろう。９月９日にト
ランプ大統領が共和党大会で「上下両院で共和党が勝利すれば、米国の成人一人あたり5000
ドルを配当として給付する」としたことも債券市場で嫌気されたとみられる。

・８月ＣＰＩ次第ではあるが、筆者は９月ＦＯＭＣで利上げが見送られ、政策金利は年内据え
置かれるとの予想を維持する。原油価格上昇が賃金インフレに繋がる「二次的波及」の兆候
に乏しいことがその理由である。事実、８月雇用統計では平均時給の上昇鈍化が継続してい
た。労働市場に起因するインフレ圧力は現時点で限定的であり、その点が2022年と決定的に
異なる。これはＦｅｄにとって安心材料であろう。ただし、９月ＦＯＭＣで利上げが見送ら
れた場合、予想インフレ率が高まることで米長期金利が上昇する事態となれば、それは年内
の利上げ確率を高めることになる。長期金利を見て、Ｆｅｄが政策判断をする展開も想定し
ておきたい。
