# Financial Report Source 02

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 210: nmr_semi-renaissance

Source PDF: all report pdf/nmr_semi-renaissance.pdf
Pages: 139
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Greater China Semi
ANCHOR REPORT
Global Markets Research
21 May
2026
A guide to Semi renaissance in 2026-30F
As metal pitch scalability of advanced chips has not been able to keep up with demanding
AI
functions, we believe more transistor complexity and heterogeneous integration will be
required. In our view, this will not only benefit Semi production equipment (SPE), but also
the Semi material sector. We expect ALD (atomic layer deposition), etching, CMP (chemical

mechanical planarization), wafer thinning, wafer-to-wafer/chip-to-wafer bonding, and
materials related to photoresist, semi wafer, InP, SOI (silicon-on-insulator) wafer, glass core
substrate to see strong growth over 2026-30F, as long as AI demand does not fade away.
We initiate coverage with Buy ratings on AEMC (4749 TT), Kinik (1560 TT), and Ingentec
(4768 TT); maintain our Buy ratings on Besi (BESI NA), Soitec (SOI FP), Dinglong (300054
CH), and Anji (688019 CH); and upgrade GWC (6488 TT) to Buy (from Neutral).

Key themes and analysis in this Anchor report:
Updates on semi market trends and TSMC’s (2330 TT, Buy) localization plan•
High-NA
EUV (high numerical aperture extreme ultraviolet lithography), metal-oxide
resist and dry deposition/etching process
•
3D transistor, backside power delivery and SoIC (system on integrated chips)•
Wafer-bonded NAND and DRAM-on-logic•
InP (indium phosphide), photonics SOI, and glass core substrate•
Research Analysts
Asia Technology

Production Complete: 2026-05-20 21:56 UTC

### Page 2

EQUITY: TECHNOLOGY
Greater China Semi
Global Markets Research
21 May
2026
A guide to Semi renaissance in 2026-30F
Revolution in Semi materials, spare parts and SPE being
driven by
rapid migration in advanced technology
When metal pitch scalability can’t keep up with demanding AI functions, more
transi
stor complexity and heterogeneous integration are required
AI infrastructure and Agentic AI demand are driving evolution of already fast-moving Semi

technologies
at a speed that has never been seen before in history. We believe advanced
node migration alone can’t fulfill the requirements from all perspectives, which include not
just computing performance, but also more efficient power saving, better heat dissipation,
wider data process bandwidth, faster electrical and optical signal transmission speed, and
more responsive reaction time at the physical AI interfaces. As a result, in our view,
complicated 3D transistor designs and backside power delivery (BPD), with heterogeneous

integration and different types of materials have quickly started playing a more important
role. We believe this is changing the landscape of the Semi market’s growth that used to be
mainly driven by transistor pitch scalability, which primarily follows the Moore’s Law. We
initiate coverage with Buy ratings on AEMC, Kinik, and Ingentec; maintain Buy on Besi,
Soitec, Dinglong, and Anji; and upgrade GWC to Buy (from Neutral).
Photoresist and lithography process upgrade is necessary when high-NA EUV is

avail
able in the market
With a higher NA (numerical aperture) light source, the thinner photoresist layer reduces the
risk of
pattern collapse, but also requires more advanced photoresist material that can better
capture photons, with an improved etching process. As a result, we believe this will lead to
the adoption of new metal-oxide resists (MOR), while dry deposition and etching could
replace the existing wet process. In our view, from TSMC’s perspective, Lam Research

(LRCX US, Not rated) could be the ultimate winner as it can provide dry deposition and
etching equipment with JSR (unlisted) being the major supplier of MOR material. We expect
this will increase the total addressable market (TAM) for photoresist and photoresist auxiliary
due to the upgrade in materials.
3D transistor, BPD and SoIC will play more important role
Besides pitch scalability, we believe the Semi industry is focusing more on device/transistor

struct
ure innovation, particularly on more complicated 3D transistors, such as the current
gate-all-around FET (GAAFET); while in the future, transistors will be stacked on top of each
other which is called a complementary FET (cFET) device. At the same time, BPD has also
been introduced that allows both additional space for logic transistors and power saving.
While a SoIC (system on integrated chips) leaves room for design flexibility so that IC

designers can vertically integrate ICs with different functions. We expect ALD, etching,
CMP, wafer thinning, wafer-to-wafer bonding and chip-to-wafer hybrid bonding demand to
grow rapidly. Hence, in our view, Semi wafer consumption would increase as well.
Wafer-bonded NAND and DRAM-on-logic to improve the performance of memory
Density and bandwidth requirements are growing considerably across memory hierarchies
in bot
h cloud and physical AI applications. A wafer-bonded NAND increases the NAND

storage density per memory die while the DRAM-on-logic unlocks the memory bandwidth
between DRAM and a logic SoC. Hence, we believe the demand for CMP, wafer thinning,
and wafer-to-wafer bonding should grow, along with more Semi wafer consumption.
Combinations of materials are critical in SiPh and glass core substrates
Materials such as silicon photonics (SiPh) and glass core substrates have quickly emerged
to
meet the demand for AI networking. SiPh makes a compact optical transceiver with better

### Page 3

Fig. 1: Stocks for action
Company Code Rating Market Cap 
(USD mn) 
Avg. TO 
(USD mn) TP (LCY) 15-May (LCY) Upside (%)
Ingentec* 4768 TT Buy 767                25 960 431                   123%
Soitec SOI FP Buy 6,883             148 250 148                   69%
AEMC* 4749 TT Buy 3,206             78 1500 1,015                48%
Dinglong 300054 CH Buy 10,128           285 104 73                     43%
Kinik* 1560 TT Buy 2,685             45 840 629                   34%
Besi BESI NA Buy 24,395           150 340 262                   30%
Anji Microelectronics 688019 CH Buy 7,425              145 360 289                   25%
GlobalWafers 6488 TT Buy 12,209           115 850 710                   20%
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates 
Not
e: Stocks on which we are initiating coverage in this Anchor report are marked with an *; closing price as on 15 May 2026 
Note 2: 
Ingentec: Leading specialty gas supplier with (Through-Glass Via) TGV capability in Taiwan 
Soitec: Largest SOI wafer company in the world 
AEMC: Leading photoresist and photoresist auxiliary supplier in Taiwan 
Dinglong: Leading CMP-related material supplier in China 
Kinik: Leading CMP pad conditioner and reclaim wafer supplier in Taiwan 
Besi: Leading hybrid bonding tool company in the world 
Anji Microelectronics: Leading CMP-related material supplier in China 
GlobalWafers: Third largest Semi wafer supplier in the world

Fig. 2: Valuation comparison table

Note: Bloomberg consensus for Not rated stocks; data as on 15 May 2026
S
ource: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
3

### Page 4

Executive summary
G
uide to the evolution of key Semi processes and materials in 
2026-30F
AI infrastructure and Agentic AI demand are driving the evolution of already fast-moving 
Semi technologies at a speed that has never been seen before in history. The advanced 
node migration alone can’t fulfill the requirements from all perspectives, which include not 
just computing performance, but also more efficient power saving, better heat dissipation, 
wider data process bandwidth, faster electrical and optical signal transmission speed, and 
more responsive reaction time at the physical AI interfaces. As a result, in our view, 3D 
transistor design and BPD, with heterogeneous integration across 2.5D/3D packaging and 
different types of materials have quickly started playing a more important role. We believe 
this is changing the landscape of Semi market growth that used to be mainly driven by 
transistor density growth, which follows the Moore’s Law. But it is slowing down quickly, 
particularly when the next-generation EUV and high-NA EUV are not likely to be widely 
adopted by the Semi industry until 2029-30F at the earliest, in our view. In this report, we 
will discuss the evolution of most key Semi technologies over 2026-30F (
Fig. 3  – 4 ). 
Fig. 3: Evolution of key Semi technologies in 2026-30F
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
4

### Page 5

Fig. 4: Key Semi technologies, market growth, beneficiaries, and timeline
Technology 2025-2030
CAGR
Key Equipment Key Materials Major Beneficiaries Note
GAA (Gate-All-
Around)
>20% ALD (Atomic Layer Deposition)
Selective Etch
Epitaxy (Si/SiGe Superlattice)
CMP
Metrology / Inspection
High-k Dielectrics (HfO₂)
SiGe Superlattice Wafers
Work-Function Metals (TiN, TiAl)
Molybdenum (contact metal)
Metal Oxide Resists
ASM International, Applied Materials, Lam

Research, Tokyo Electron, KLA Tencor
CAGR of over 20% as part of the
normal advanced node migration.
Will start growing from 2026F.
SoIC (System on
Integrated Chip)
>30% Hybrid Bonder (D2W)
TSV Etch & Fill
Wafer Thinning / CMP
Temp. Bond / Debond
Optical Inspection
RDL Deposition
Cu-Cu Bonding Interfaces
SiCN / SiO₂ Dielectrics
CMP Slurries (Cu)
Underfill Materials
BESI, Applied Materials, Ebara, Disco, Onto
Innovation, Camtek
CAGR of over 30% due to the very low

base in 2025; we expect it to rapidly
increase in 2026-27F due to TSMC's
SoIC capacity expansion and
potential adoption by HBM
customers. Will start growing from
2026F.
Glass Core
Substrate
>40% TGV Laser Drill / Etch
Panel-Level Lithography
RDL / Metallization (Sputter, Plate)
Glass Panel Handling
Metrology (Warpage, Defect)
High-Purity Glass Panels
Cu / Ti / W Metallization
ABF-type Dielectric Films
CMP Slurries (Glass)
Ibiden, Unimicron, SEMCO, Toppan

Absolics (SKC), JNTC, LG Innotek, Ingentec
LPKF, DR Laser, E&R Engineering, Innostar
Service
Schott, AGC, Corning
CAGR of over 40% as it's a totally
new technology/material. Will start
growing from 2027F at the earliest.
Backside Power
Delivery (BSPDN)
>20% Nano-TSV Etch & Fill
Wafer Thinning / CMP
Carrier Wafer Bonding
Backside Litho (DUV / EUV)
Backside Metal Deposition
EDA Tools (P&R re-design)
CMP Slurries & Pads
Cu / Ru / Mo Interconnects
Low-k Dielectrics

Carrier Wafer Adhesive
Disco, Ebara, Applied Materials, EVG, TEL, SUSS
Microtec, Entegris, CMC Materials, Kinik, 3M
CAGR of over 20% as part of the
normal advanced node migration.
Will start growing from 2027F.
Wafer Bonded
NAND (Xtacking-
type)
>20% W2W Hybrid Bonder
High Aspect Ratio Etch (60:1+)
ALD / CVD (multi-layer stack)
CMP (post-bond planarize)
Optical Inspection
SiO₂ / SiN Multi-Layer Stacks
W / Mo (Wordline metals)
Cu-Cu Bonding Interface

Polysilicon Channels
EVG, TEL, SUSS Microtec, Lam Research, AMEC CAGR of over 20% as part of the
normal NAND production technology
migration. Will start growing from
2027F.
DRAM-on-Logic
(LPDDR W2W)
>30% W2W Hybrid Bonder
TSV Etch & Fill
ALD (High-k Capacitor)
Wafer Thinning / Grinding
Advanced Litho (EUV for Logic)
Metrology (Alignment)
High-k Capacitor Dielectrics (ZrO₂,
HfO₂)
IGZO / Oxide Channels (future)
Cu-Cu Bonding Interface
Ru / Mo Interconnects

EVG, TEL, SUSS Microtec CAGR of over 30% as we believe it
would not pick up meaningfully until
2028F driven by edge AI/physical AI
applications. Will start growing from
2028F.
InP-Based Lasers >20% MOCVD / MBE Epitaxy
III-V Wafer Processing
Facet Coating / Cleaving
Die Bonding / Packaging
Burn-In & Reliability Test
InP Substrates (2"→6")
InGaAsP / InGaAlAs Epitaxy
High-Purity Indium & Phosphorus
AR/HR Coatings
Lumentum, Coherent (II-VI)
Sumitomo Electric, AXT, JX Metals

Landmark, VPEC, Win Semi, IQE
Aixtron
CAGR of over 20% as we believe
growth can reach very high in 2025-
27F, but moderate in 2028-30F if
more meaningful capacity is built
across the industry, particularly in
China. Will start growing from 2026F.
Photonics SOI
(SiPh)
>30% SOI Wafer Fab (DUV Litho)
Ge Epitaxy (Photodetectors)
Edge / Grating Coupler Fab
Wafer Bonding (InP-on-Si)
CPO Packaging Tools
Photonic SOI Wafers (220nm/400nm
Si)
SiN (Low-Loss Waveguides)

Ge (Photodetectors)
LiNbO₃ (Modulators, emerging)
Soitec, GlobalWafers, NSIG/Simgui, Shin-Etsu CAGR of over 30%, which is higher
than that of InP material, as
Photonics SOI's (SiPh) growth
momentum will start later than that
for InP substrate, mainly driven by
SiPh used in CPO after 2027F. Will
start growing from 2027F.
High-NA EUV >40% High-NA EUV
High-Power EUV Light Source
Anamorphic Optics & Mirrors
Metal Oxide / Dry Deposition
New Reticle / Mask Infrastructure

Advanced Metrology and Overlay
Metal Oxide Photoresist (MOR)
EUV Pellicles
Ru-capped Multilayer Mirrors
Ultra-Low-Defect
EUV Mask Blanks
Hydrogen Gas
Dry Resist Chemicals
ASML
Carl Zeiss, Trumpf,
AGC/Mitsui, Hoya/AGC,
JSR/Inpria, Lam Research, AEMC
KLA Tencor/Lasertec,
Guden/Entegris
CAGR of over 40% depending on
whether TSMC will adopt high-NA
EUV on A10 node or further push it
out. Will start growing from 2029F at
the earliest.
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
5

### Page 6

3D transistor, BPD, and advanced packaging such as SoIC and CoWoS/CoPoS will 
p
lay more important role
We believe the Moore’s Law may still continue along with the pitch to scale down further 
once the leading Semi companies start adopting high-NA EUV at around 1nm (A10). In 
this case, we think the Semi market giants, such as ASML (ASML US, Not rated) and 
TSMC, could still be able to widen their technology leadership over other Semi companies 
in the next decade. However, in our view, if high-NA EUV eventually proves to be less 
cost effective and is pushed out further, pitch scaling could no longer remain a key topic in 
the future, where the whole Semi industry will focus more on device/transistor structure 
innovation, from 2D to 3D structure and transistors that are stacked on top of each other, 
called a cFET device, compared to the current GAAFET type. 
Fig. 5: Metal pitch scaling – historical trend
Source: Nomura estimates, IMEC

Fig. 6: Contact area between gate and source/drain electrodes
Larger 
the contact areas, better the power consumption
Source: Samsung, Nomura research
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
6

### Page 7

T
he approach to fabricate stacked-Si nanowires for GAA (gate-all-around) devices in Fig. 
 7  includes: 1) a stack of Si/SiGe layers grown on a silicon wafer; 2) anisotropic plasma 
etching (vertical direction) achieved in an inductively coupled plasma (ICP) reactor; 3) 
isotropic and selective etching (both vertical and horizontal directions) of SiGe layers in an 
RPS (remote plasma source) reactor; 4) the cycle of a two-step process alternating 
oxidation (atomic layer deposition; ALD) and etch; and 5) the release of horizontal Si 
nanowires. As a result, we believe the deposition and etching processes will be increasing 
more meaningfully. 
Fig. 7: Process of forming the GAA transistor
Source: Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology A Vacuum Surfaces and Films, Nomura research

A
 power delivery network is designed to provide power supply and reference voltage to 
the active devices on a die most efficiently. A BPD network decouples the power delivery 
network from the signal network by moving the entire power distribution network to the 
backside of the silicon wafer, which today serves only as a carrier. From there, it enables 
direct power delivery to the standard cells through wider, less-resistive metal lines, 
without the electrons needing to travel through the complex BEOL stack. This approach 
promises to benefit the IR drop, improve the power delivery performance, reduce routing 
congestion in the BEOL, and when properly designed, allow for further standard cell 
height scaling.
As two silicon wafers will be used in the back-side power delivery process, one being the 
silicon wafer acting as an interposer in between the signal network, and another acting as 
the permanent silicon carrier of the device, we expect the usage of silicon wafers to 
increase along with wafer bonding. On the other hand, we believe the wafer bonding, 
CMP, grinding and thinning process will increase as well to form the silicon interposer in 
between the signal and power network. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
7

### Page 8

Fig. 8: Process flow of BPD
Source: IMEC, Nomura research

A
n alternative solution to the high-NA EUV stitching issue is the avoidance of large dies 
altogether. In advanced packaging such as SoIC, by using hybrid bonding technology, it 
has been proven that it is possible to maintain high performance even while separately 
fabricating parts of circuits that previously had been fully integrated into a single die. This 
is currently being done to improve the cost-effectiveness of advanced lithography. For 
example, the high-performance logic circuits of AMD’s (AMD US, Not rated) EPYC 
processor have been fabricated using 7 nm technology, while input/output functions have 
been fabricated using lower-cost 14 nm processes. In other applications, memory access 
rates are improved using advanced packaging technology. It may also be possible to 
achieve high levels of performance with maximum die sizes that can fit into the exposure 
fields of high-NA EUV exposure tools.
Fig. 9: Chip-to-chip/wafer hybrid bonding
Source: Nomura research
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
8

### Page 9

W
afer-bonded memory (wafer-bonded NAND; DRAM-on-logic) to maximize 
performance and bandwidth
The wafer-bonded NAND technology was introduced by YMTC (unlisted) for the first time 
in 2018. YMTC’s wafer-bonded technology is called Xtacking, and can also be called 
CMOS directly bonded to array (CBA) technology, which makes it possible for the CMOS 
circuit (logic) wafers and memory cells array wafers to be manufactured separately and 
bonded together. Before the launch of CBA architecture, 3D NAND architectures in the 
market were divided into traditional side-by-side structure and CnA (CMOS next to Array) 
architecture. 
Since the two types of wafers are manufactured in parallel, there is also the added benefit 
of shortened production times compared to the conventional method. Performing high-
temperature processing solely on the memory cell array wafer makes it possible to 
achieve the optimal temperature to ensure reliability without having to consider the impact 
on the CMOS circuit. By separating the wafer manufacturing processes, the performance 
of the CMOS circuit and the memory cell array can be maximized.
Fig. 10: 3D NAND: CNA vs CBA structure 
Source: Kioxia, Nomura research
Fig. 11: Wafer-to-wafer bonding structure
Source: Kioxia, Nomura research

Fig. 12: YMTC’s Xtacking technology
Source: YMTC, Nomura research

A
I inference is a memory-bound task in the smart-edge domain requiring high memory 
bandwidth and energy efficiency with modest computing power between 45 and 100+ 
TOPS (trillions of operations per second). The DRAM-on-logic WoW can achieve 1TB/s 
bandwidth for throughput higher than 100 TPS (tokens per second). We believe the 
strong momentum for DRAM-on-logic could start from 2028F, led by AI agents in 
automotive smart cockpit, premium smartphones/PCs, and robotics. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
9

### Page 10

Fig. 13: Difference between MCM vs WoW for edge AI chips
Source: Nomura research

P
hotoresist upgrade is critical along with high-NA EUV to drive further scalability of 
metal pitches
With a higher NA, photons strike the wafer at a shallower angle. That requires thinner 
photoresist layers to avoid shadowing. The upside is that a thinner resist layer reduces the risk 
of pattern collapse, as the aspect ratio of resist features is smaller. However, it also provides 
less protection for the wafer. In addition, long etch processes used to create high-aspect ratio 
wafer features can erode the resist layer, ultimately degrading the transferred pattern. With 
less material, a thinner resist also captures fewer photons, potentially making roughness and 
other stochastic effects worse.
At present, metal-oxide resists are probably the leading alternative to photoacid-driven 
chemistries, or chemically amplified resists (CAR). Based on a metal-oxide core, surrounded 
by ligands that tune solubility, crosslinking, and other properties, these resists offer inherently 
good etch resistance. The dense core absorbs more energy, too, attenuating electron energy 
and reducing blur. 
Fig. 14: Reduction in photoresist film thickness 
Source: Cadence, Nomura research

Fig. 15: Advantage of using metal-oxide photoresists over chemically amplified 
p
hotoresists
Source: Inperia
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
10

### Page 11

Glass core substrate is an emerging new technology amid rising demand for 
o
ptical communications and tight ABF substrate supply
Glass core substrates and interposers are being pursued intensively by leading device 
makers, materials suppliers, and equipment vendors for advanced packaging 
applications. Intel (INTC US, Not rated) has publicly demonstrated its glass core 
substrates for next-generation advanced packaging, positioning the work as foundational 
research for the latter part of this decade rather than imminent high‑volume 
manufacturing, which helps frame expectations for the technology's maturity today. We 
believe Broadcom (BRCM US, Not rated) is likely one of the early movers of adopting 
glass core substrates by 2027F at the earliest, which may be firstly adopted on its switch 
ASIC. We think the main reason that Broadcom is considering the use of glass core 
substrates is mainly to avoid the heat issue which could result in the warpage of 
substrates. Using the glass core substrate (a good heat spreader) will lead to better heat 
dissipation through copper pillars, in our view. However, we see two uncertainties for the 
glass core substrate adoption in the coming year: 1) substrate makers are still dealing 
with the RDL dielectric peeling and delamination issue; 2) ABF substrate and EMIB-T 
demand is too strong for substrate makers to invest in glass core substrate capacity.
Fig. 16: Process of glass substrate and some supply chain names related to Broadcom
Source: Manz, Nomura research

T
he fast-growing optical communications market is driving surging demand for InP 
substrate and photonics SOI wafers
Driven by global AI leaders’ buoyant demand for high-speed optical transceivers, as well as 
persistent component shortages (i.e., optical chips), we believe the product upcycle will continue 
into 2027F. Meanwhile, product innovation in the optical transceiver market is accelerating, and 
future technology trends including silicon photonics (SiPh), LPO/LRO, and NPO/CPO primarily 
target higher performance, lower energy consumption and costs. We believe the 1.6T upgrade 
and SiPh migration are the key drivers. We also think NPO/CPO technologies will continue to 
improve. In our view, if leading CPO solution providers use bundled sales strategies for their 
CPO switch products, then it could accelerate adoption rates in a scale-out network in the 
medium term, while there are more CPO use cases for the scale-up network in the long term. 
Other than using silicon-based wafers to produce key ICs in optical transceivers, other critical 
areas where non-siIicon-based wafers/materials are used include: 1) InP for EML and CW 
lasers; 2) Ge (germanium) on silicon for PD; and 3) photonics SOI wafer for PIC (SiPh). Ideally, 
the fully-integrated PIC necessitates a monolithic III–V compound Semi and silicon platform for 
efficient light coupling and large dimension III–V compound Semi materials for flexible 
device/circuit designs. Thus, we believe a monolithic InP/photonics SOI platform for integrated 
photonics is becoming a better solution. These InP crystals are located right on top of the buried 
oxide layer and feature an in-plane configuration with the silicon device layer, which results in a 
unique InP-on-insulator architecture and allows for strong light confinement within the epitaxial 
InP. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
11

### Page 12

Fig. 17: Structure of an advanced optical transceiver and key materials 
Source: Nomura research

T
SMC’s strong capex and local sourcing plan will be another 
catalyst for Semi supply chain
TSMC continues to build up new capacity in Taiwan and overseas. TSMC now has 26 
advanced wafer fabs and advanced packaging facilities ramping up or planned globally 
(18 of them are in Taiwan). We formulate our high-volume manufacturing timeline 
assumptions in 
Fig. 18 , which suggests TSMC will have more fab modules coming on 
stream after 2027F in line with management commentary “… So 2026-2027 for the short-
term, we are looking to improve our productivity. 2028 to 2029, yes, we start to increase 
our capacity significantly”  during the earnings call in early-2026. As a result, we expect 
TSMC could spend up to around USD70bn of capex in 2027F considering that over 10 
new fab modules would be expanded simultaneously in Taiwan and overseas.  
Fig. 18: TSMC’s total no. of fab modules and net additions of fab modules
Source: TSMC, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
12

### Page 13

Fig. 19: TSMC’s capex and capex intensity trend
W
e expect TSMC’s capex could reach up to USD70bn in 2027F
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
13

### Page 14

To strengthen local supply chain resilience, enhance the local economy, and reduce 
carbon 
emissions during transportation, TSMC has expanded the goal scope for local 
sourcing globally, encompassing six categories: equipment, components, raw materials, 
facility systems, automation, and goods across TSMC's major operational production fabs 
 in the past decade, to aid local suppliers in upgrading technology and quality, cutting 
costs, and diminishing carbon emissions.
Fig. 20: TSMC’s Semi material, spare parts and back-end equipment localization plan
Source: TSMC, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
14

### Page 15

Stocks recommended in this Anchor report
S
oitec: Leading SOI wafer company in the world
Soitec is the largest SOI wafer supplier globally with around 70% market share (as per
our estimates), maintaining its leadership for years (please refer to our 2019 deep-dive
report ). However, we believe its growth driver is no longer RF SOI, but photonics SOI,
which is likely to be adopted widely in silicon photonic (SiPh)-based photonic integrated
circuits (PIC). We think Soitec’s business could return to its 2019-21 glory days.

Compared with Bloomberg consensus, we are more bullish on Soitec’s sales contribution
from photonics SOI wafers in the coming years. Our sales forecasts for FY27-28F are 3-
8% higher than consensus estimates.
We have a Buy rating and a TP of EUR250 on Soitec. Our TP is based on 8x FY30F P/S
with sales of EUR1.12bn, which is in line with its previous peak cycle valuation level in
FY21. Risks to our rating and TP include weak optical communication, smartphone,

automotive and FD-SOI demand; rising competition from other materials; and oversupply
of SOI wafers.
Besi: Leading hybrid bonding tool company
In our advanced packaging sector report published in Feb-25 (“
The evolution of CoWoS,
SoIC, and InFO ”), we were conservative on HB demand in 2025. However, we now
expect HB demand to surge quickly in 2026-27F on the back of strong demand driven by
AI chips, optical communications, and potentially HBMs. Thus, we now believe Besi’s HB

orders in 2026-27F could potentially at 70+ and 150+ units. Compared with consensus,
we are more bullish on Besi’s HB orders from customers in 2026-27F. Our sales forecast
for 2026F is 7% lower, but for 2027F is 8% higher than consensus estimates.
We have a Buy rating on Besi with a TP of EUR340, based on 55x 2027F EPS of
EUR6.1. The P/E of 55x is between Besi’s +1 SD P/E to +2 SD of Besi’s P/E range since
2014 as its HB orders will likely reach historical high levels in 2026-27F, in our view.

Downside risks: 1) slower-than-expected semi assembly equipment demand and foundry
capex raise; 2) slower-than-expected HB adoption; 3) delays in new customers' project
wins and order shipments; and 4) rising competition causing valuation, ASP or gross
margin erosion.
GlobalWafers: Third largest Semi wafer company in the world
In addition to regular Semi wafer demand growth and Semi companies’ capex expansion
cycles driven by strong AI demand, we see some catalysts driven by the adoption of new

Semi technology, including: 1) wafer-bonded NAND; 2) backside power delivery (BPD);
and 3) emerging photonics SOI demand, which we believe may drive annual Semi wafer
market shipment growth of 10% in 2026-30F. Although, in our view, GlobalWafers’
profitability remains at a low level and Semi wafer prices are unlikely to be revised up
meaningfully immediately as existing LTAs have not all been renewed yet, we expect
Semi wafer companies’ bargaining power to recover gradually. Compared with

consensus, our GPM forecasts for 2026-27F are 1.8-3.8pp lower. Our 2026-28F sales
and net profit estimates are TWD61.2-83.5bn and TWD8.2-15.3bn.
We upgrade GlobalWafers to Buy and raise our TP to TWD850 (from TWD480), based on
3.2x 2028F BVPS TWD262 (increased from previously 2.1x 2026F BVPS of TWD230 to
factor in the potential upcycle in 2027-28F). Downside risks include: 1) faster-than-
expected entry of China into the 12” semi wafer market; 2) slower-than-expected market

consolidation; 3) worse-than-expected end-demand for the Semi industry; 4) less
favorable demand/supply dynamics in the Semi wafer industry; and 5) less-favorable FX
volatility and rising material/utility costs.
AEMC: Leading photoresist and photoresist auxiliary supplier in Taiwan
We initiate coverage of Advanced Echem Materials (AEMC) with a Buy rating and a target
price
of TWD1,500. AEMC is a leading Taiwan-based developer and manufacturer of specialty

chemical materials for semiconductor and display applications, and is among the major
photoresist (PR) auxiliary domestic suppliers for TSMC. Considering TSMC’s aggressive
N3/N2 and sub-2nm capacity expansion plans from 2026-27E onwards and AEMC’s potential
market share gain from global peers, we forecast 2026-30F revenue/net income CAGRs of
around 30% each for AEMC. Compared with consensus, we are more bullish on AEMC’s
long-term business opportunities to further broaden its product portfolio from photoresist

auxiliary to photoresist. Our 2026-28F sales and net profit estimates are TWD5.2-8.4bn and
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
15

### Page 16

TWD1.4-2.3bn,  respectively.
Our TP of TWD1,500 is based on 60x FY28F EPS of TWD25 – the target multiple of 60x
reflects our expectation that AEMC would sustainably grow its business with its leading
foundry customer and the TAM of PR would expand. Downside risks include: (1) product
disqualifications by its leading foundry customer; (2) loss of market share to other competitors;
(3) inability to supply more high-end products such as BARC (Bottom Anti-Reflective

Coatings) and photoresist.
Ingentec: Leading specialty gas supplier with TGV capability in Taiwan
We initiate coverage of Ingentec, a Taiwanese specialty gas supplier and emerging TGV
(Through-Glass Via) glass core substrate manufacturer, with a Buy rating. In our view, Ingentec
is positioned at the intersection of two powerful secular trends: 1) the accelerating demand for
etch gases driven by memory capacity expansion, particularly 3D NAND; and 2) emerging glass

core substrate demand driven by Broadcom from 2027F. We estimate 2026F will be a year of
recovery for its core specialty gas business, and its glass core substrate business could emerge
from 2027F onwards at the earliest. Thus, we assume there could be more meaningful sales and
earnings growth in late 2027F. Compared with consensus, we assume that the glass core
substrate business will not contribute meaningful sales and profit until late-2027F with strong

sales and profit surge in 2028F (consensus currently estimates strong earnings growth in
2027F already). We also assume Ingentec would need to raise funds by issuing new shares
by the end of 2027F to support the rising capex for its glass core substrate business. Our
2026-28F sales and net profit estimates are TWD1.8-9.3bn and TWD46mn-1.2bn,
respectively.
Our TP of TWD960 is based on 60x 2028F EPS of TWD16, in the mid-range of the company’s
45-75x P/E over 2021-23, when Ingentec's specialty gas business was strong, driven by tight

supply due to the Ukraine-Russia war. Downside risks include: 1) weaknening semi capex cycle;
2) loss of market share to competitors; 3) delay in the commercialization of next-generation
products; and 4) slower-than-expected adoption of glass core substrate.
Kinik: Leading CMP pad conditioner and reclaim wafer supplier in Taiwan
Kinik is the dominant chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) pad conditioner (DBU) supplier to
TSMC on advanced nodes, with an ~80% share on the N2 node through a multi-year co-

development partnership. We believe Kinik's reclaim/test wafer business (SBU) is also likely
to grow along with the recovery of semi wafer demand. Other than these two growth engines,
we expect its grinding wheel business (ABU) could be an additional lever if Kinik is able to
penetrate into the leading OSAT companies in the long term. Compared with consensus, our
GPM forecast for 2026F is slightly higher due to Kinik’s better product mix, and we have also

factored in some more grinding wheel business opportunities in 2028F. Our 2026-28F sales
and net profit estimates are TWD9.7-14.2bn and TWD2.0-3.0bn, respectively.
We initiate coverage on Kinik with a Buy rating and a TP of TWD840, based on 40x 2028F
EPS of TWD21 in the upper half of its historical P/E of 10-45x, to address its stably growing
business with its leading foundry customer, as well as the rising TAM across its different
business units. Downside risks are: 1) disqualification of products by its leading foundry

customer; 2) losing market share to competitors; 3) failure to broaden its product portfolio; and
4) weakening Semi market demand.
Hubei Dinglong: CMP scale-up and photoresist breakthrough
Dinglong's investment case rests on two reinforcing growth engines: a rapidly scaling
CMP consumables franchise and an inflecting photoresist business. CMP pad sales
surged 71.2% y-y in 1Q26 to CNY376mn, with monthly shipments exceeding 40k pieces
and capacity now at 50k/month, evidencing meaningful share gains at domestic foundries

during China's semiconductor capacity build-out. The CMP slurry segment is also
broadening, with recent wins in 12-inch fine slurry, ceria slurry at a leading memory
player, and TSV slurry for advanced packaging — collectively unlocking a domestic TAM
of over CNY1bn currently dominated by imports. On photoresist, Dinglong has three
ArF/KrF products in stable mass supply with several more order conversions expected in
2026E, supported by a completed 300 tons/annum Phase-2 line offering >5x capacity

headroom versus current run-rate. With domestic localisation rates still extremely low
(~15% for KrF, 2–3% for ArF) and potential export tightening in 2026–27F, the
substitution opportunity is substantial — positioning Dinglong as a direct mainland
competitor to AEMC's photoresist ambitions.
We maintain our Buy rating with TP raised to CNY104 (from CNY42), based on 96x
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
16

### Page 17

2026F P/E (CNY1.08 EPS), at +2.5x SD of its 5-year historical average P/E of 51x. The
t
arget multiple is supported by a 33% earnings CAGR over 2025–28F, with net profit
forecast at CNY1,022/1,312/1,675mn for 2026/27/28F. The stock currently trades at 64x
2026F P/E, implying 43% upside to TP. Key catalysts include continued CMP pad share
gains at record shipment levels, broadening of the slurry pipeline into import-dominated
categories, and accelerated ArF/KrF order conversions as domestic fabs prioritise supply-

chain localisation. Downside risks include slower-than-expected ArF/KrF ramp-up,
customer production delays, and goodwill/integration risk from the lithium materials
acquisition.
Anji Microelectronics: Sub-10nm node leader in China and gross margin recovery
Anji is China's leading CMP slurry supplier, differentiated by its advanced-node
positioning and raw-material self-sufficiency. The company is a primary beneficiary of
China's CMP slurry market scaling to an estimated CNY10.5bn by 2028F, with growth

concentrated in sub-10nm area. Copper and copper-barrier slurries at a key client have
transitioned from qualification to scaled mass production, while 7nm cobalt-interconnect
slurry — a greenfield category with no Cabot/DuPont benchmark — is advancing into
qualification at a follow-on site. A further incremental driver is one client's wafer-to-wafer
(W2W) hybrid-bonding initiative for 3D DRAM, which increases CMP step count through
pre- and post-bonding planarisation. In-house abrasives production supports slurry gross

margins of 55–58% (vs. 52–55% at peers), underpinning superior profitability with ROE
forecast at 28–30% through 2026–28F.
We maintain our Buy rating with TP raised to CNY360 (from CNY320), based on 42x
2027F P/E (CNY8.52 EPS), at +2x SD of its historical average P/E of 26x. The target
multiple is supported by a 25% earnings CAGR over 2025–28F, with net profit forecast at
CNY1,097/1,437/1,738mn for 2026/27/28F. The stock currently trades at 34x 2027F P/E,

implying 25% upside to TP. Key catalysts include gross margin recovery from 2Q26F as
advanced-node mix improves, incremental CMP step pull-ins from the W2W hybrid-
bonding ramp, and continued displacement of imported slurries at sub-10nm nodes.
Downside risks include ultra-high-purity silica sol remains Fuso, rising competition from
Dinglong in CMP slurries, and potential fab-led vertical integration that could
disintermediate third-party suppliers.

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
17

### Page 18

Can semiconductor materials close the gap 
w
ith Semi and SPE market growth?
Semiconductor materials: ~USD80bn market powered by fab 
expansion, node migration and advanced packaging
The semiconductor supply chain has been under the spotlight in terms of its importance to 
international relations, the attention it received from senior leaders in the government and 
business, and its use as a tool of foreign policy. Across a diverse range of global 
opportunities and geopolitical challenges, semiconductor materials are increasingly at the 
center of the story. Semiconductor materials, along with certain chemicals, are necessary 
inputs across the semiconductor manufacturing process (
Fig. 21 ). 
Fig. 21: Simplified semiconductor value chain
Source: CSIS, Nomura research

I
n 2025, global semiconductor sales reached USD796bn (+26% y-y), according to WSTS, 
while, global total semiconductor material sales merely grew 7% y-y to USD73.6bn. In 
general, semiconductor materials consist of two main segments – manufacturing 
materials and encapsulation (packaging) materials (
Fig. 22 -23 ). Fabrication materials 
accounted for 64% of the total material market share in 2025, while packaging materials 
made up the remaining 36%, as per our estimates.
IC manufacturing materials include wafer, photomask, photoresist, photoresist auxiliary 
materials, process chemicals, electric gas, sputtering material, and CMP materials. 
According to our estimates, in 2025, wafer represented 31% of total IC manufacturing 
materials, followed by photo resist and photoresist auxiliary (c.15%), electric gas (c.14%), 
while photomask and CMP accounted for 13% and 8%, respectively. Packaging materials 
include packaging substrate, lead frame, ceramic substrate, wire bonding, packaging and 
adhesive materials, where packaging substrate accounted for the biggest portion of 
packaging material market with a 39% share, as per our estimates. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
18

### Page 19

Fig. 22: Integrated circuit manufacturing process and corresponding materials
Source: Nomura research

Fig. 23: Integrated circuit packaging process and corresponding materials
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
19

### Page 20

Fig. 24: Semi materials market breakdown by market size
Source: SEMI, Nomura research    
Fig. 25: Semi materials market breakdown by percentage
Source: SEMI, Nomura research

Fig. 26: IC manufacturing materials market breakdown by 
p
ercentage
Source: SEMI, Nomura research        
Fig. 27: IC packaging materials market breakdown by 
p
ercentage
Source: SEMI, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
20

### Page 21

Taiwan has the highest share in fabrication material 
co
nsumption, whereas Japan dominates the supply
By country/region, Taiwan remains the biggest semiconductor materials market owing to 
its large IC foundry and packaging capacities. In 2025, Taiwan accounted for 30% of 
global semi material sales, followed by 20% for China. South Korea and Japan were the 
third- and fourth-largest markets, representing 18% and 10%, respectively, of the total 
share, according to our estimates. The US has been growing rapidly in recent years due 
to the “Made in US” policy, which is driving more Semi companies to build their new 
capacities on the US soil. 
Fig. 28: Global semiconductor materials sales by market
Source: SEMI, Nomura research            
Fig. 29: G lobal semiconductor materials sales breakdown, 2025
Source: SEMI, Nomura research

Fig. 30: Major semi materials market share of sales by country/region, 2025
Source: SEMI, Nomura research
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
21

### Page 22

However,
 the supply of global semi materials is still dominated by Japan, US and EU 
companies (Fig. 31 -44 ). In details, Japan dominated the lithography and sputtering-
related material market, while the US and EU each have relatively higher shares in CMP 
and electric gas related markets. 
Fig. 31: Major semi materials market share by suppliers’ headquarter location in 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Fig. 32: Photoresist – KrF market share by company in 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research
Fig. 33: Photoresist – ArF market share by company in 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
22

### Page 23

Fig. 34: Semi wafer size breakdown by area shipment in 2025
Source: SEMI, Nomura research
Fig. 35: 300mm wafer market share by company
Source: SK Siltron, Nomura research

Fig. 36: Photomask market share by company, 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research
Fig. 37: Electric gas market share by company, 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Fig. 38: Blanks (optical) market share by company in 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research
Fig. 39: Blanks (EUV) market share by company, 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
23

### Page 24

Fig. 40: CMP market breakdown by different materials and 
co
mponents in 2025
Source: SEMI, Nomura research
Fig. 41: CMP slurry market share by company in 2025

Source: Company data, Nomura research

Fig. 42: CMP pad market share by company in 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research
Fig. 43: CMP  pad conditioner market share by company in 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Fig. 44: Sputtering material market share by company in 2025
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
24

### Page 25

Fig. 45: Matrix of some key semi materials vs suppliers
Source: Company data, Nomura research 
Not
e: MP = mass production; UD = under development

Semi material market growth underperformed Semi and Semi 
equipment; gradual mean reversion could be seen post 2027F
According to the Semiconductor Industry Association (SIA), SEMI, and Statista, 
semiconductor materials revenue represented only 9.3% of semiconductor industry 
market value in 2025, the lowest point since 2013. This implies a USD1bn semiconductor 
market value would only require USD93mn worth of semiconductor materials (
Fig. 46 ). At 
the same time, the value of SPE has outpaced semi materials since 2017, leading to 
overall semi material companies’ stock price performances significantly underperforming 
those of SPE stocks (
Fig. 48 -49 ). 
The major reasons for the underperformance include:
The rise of advanced chips such as AI accelerators, which carry significantly 
high ASPs
•
Since 2023, demand for AI accelerators has surged quickly. Nvidia's (NVDA US, Not 
rated) H100/B200 GPUs and custom ASICs from Google (GOOGL US, Not rated) and 
Amazon (AMZN US, Not rated) command extraordinary price premiums. A single AI 
GPU can be priced at USD30,000, but the semi wafer and process chemicals inside it 
cost a few hundred dollars at the most. So, as AI chips boost the total semiconductor 
revenue figure, materials spending doesn't keep pace.
Moore's Law makes the manufacturing processes more complicated than 
materials 
•
As transistor sizes shrink, more compute cores can be included onto the same 
physical semi wafer area. As a result, the value of manufacturing processes (more 
photolithography, etching processes, etc.) extracted per semi wafer has been growing 
even faster. Thus, revenue per unit of material consumed has continued to rise.
Semi oversupply cycle has more direct impact on demand for materials•
Materials consumption tracks fab production and utilization. During downturns, fabs 
run at reduced capacity, materials purchases fall sharply, but the Semi market doesn't 
collapse as dramatically because it includes inventories which can be sold to the 
market and can charge higher ASPs driven by new applications such as AI and 
advanced node migrations. 
However, we do not rule out the possibility that semi materials market value could 
see a gradual mean reversal post 2027F, due to:
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
25

### Page 26

Gate-all-around (GAA) transistors and new materials•
Moving
from FinFET to GAA at 2nm and below requires entirely new material sets –
nanosheet channels, high-k dielectrics, and new ALD (atomic layer deposition)
precursors. Each process step demands higher-purity, more expensive chemicals.
The materials cost per wafer at leading-edge nodes is rising faster than at previous
transitions.
Backside power delivery and wafer-bonded NAND driving more semi wafer,

wafer thinning, grinding and CMP usage
•
Backside power delivery enables power delivery from the first semi wafer’s backside
to the active devices in the frontside, with an additional second semi wafer as a
permanent carrier. Semi wafer usage and the wafer-thinning process, simply put, will
double. Also, CMP usage will increase as well, as both backside and frontside of the
first semi wafer are required to be processed.
On the other hand, the wafer-bonded NAND will also drive more semi wafer and CMP

usage, in our view, as it involves creating the CMOS circuitry that controls the memory
cells and the memory cell array on separate wafers, then inverting the wafer with the
memory cell array and bonding the two wafers together.
Photoresist's value increasing by at least double with the adoption of high-NA
EUV
•
Metal-oxide resists are probably the leading alternative to photo acid-driven
chemistries, or chemically amplified resists (CAR). These resists offer inherently good

etch resistance. The dense core absorbs more energy, too, attenuating electron
energy and reducing blur. Due to the change of materials, the photoresist price for
high-NA EUV could be much higher than the existing EUV. According to our industry
survey, the value of photoresist for high-NA EUV could go as high as USD10,000-
40,000 per gallon, increasing significantly from USD5,000 for existing EUV.
Advanced packaging adoption rising quickly•
HBM stacking and chiplet architectures such as AMD's 3D V-Cache, Intel's Foveros,

TSMC's CoWoS and SoIC – stack multiple dies together using advanced packaging
techniques. This dramatically increases material consumption per final product: more
organic substrates, more underfill resins, more copper interconnects, more thermal
interface materials.
Glass interposer and glass core substrate are new rising trends•
Glass core substrates and interposers are being pursued intensively by leading device
makers, materials suppliers, and equipment vendors for advanced packaging

applications. Taking glass core substrate as example, the cost initially should be
higher than existing ABF substrate, considering it is still at an early stage. However,
glass core substrate has the following advantages, including: 1) flatness and less
warpage; 2) better heat dissipation; 3) low loss favorable to high-speed signaling; and
4) large-format integration; therefore, we expect glass core substrate will play a
important role along with existing ABF substrate.

Compound semi and SOI wafers scaling up•
SiC, GaN, InP and SOI substrates are now widely used for power electronics and
optical communication applications and require fundamentally different and more
expensive substrate materials than semi wafer.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
26

### Page 27

Fig. 46: Global semi material market to total Semi market ratio
T
he average global semi material market to semi market ratio has fallen 
below the average level of around 12% since 2024
Source: WSTS, SEMI, Nomura research    
Fig. 47: Semi materials sales: manufacturing vs packaging

Source: WSTS, SEMI, Nomura research

Fig. 48: Global SPE market to semi market ratio vs global semi 
materi
al market to semi market ratio
The content value of Semi materials has underperformed SPE in the past 10 
years
Source: WSTS, Semi.org, Nomura research
Fig. 49: The performance of global SPE index vs Semi material 
i
ndex vs SOX index since 2013

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
27

### Page 28

Fig. 50: Global semi materials sales breakdown by different segment in 2025 vs 2030F
Source: SEMI, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
28

### Page 29

The evolution of TSMC’s local sourcing plan
T
o strengthen local supply chain resilience, enhance the local economy, and reduce
carbon emissions during transportation, TSMC has expanded the goal scope for local
sourcing globally, encompassing six categories: equipment, components, raw materials,
facility systems, automation, and goods across TSMC's major operational production fabs
(TSMC fabs in Taiwan, TSMC (China), TSMC (Nanjing), TSMC Washington, LLC, TSMC

Arizona, and JASM) over the past decade, to aid local suppliers in upgrading technology
and quality, cutting costs, and diminishing carbon emissions. Concurrently, localized
procurement objectives have been defined at each site to reinforce global capabilities for
regional material supply.
The goal has been changed a few times since 2018, including:
As the production capacity of silicon wafers (semi wafer) in Taiwan failed to meet
TSMC requirements, the target of local sourcing was adjusted from "local sourcing of

raw materials" to "local sourcing of indirect raw materials" in 2018.
1.
For backend equipment, since the proportion of advanced packaging has increased
and both quality requirements and technical specifications have become stricter,
TSMC has also increased the procurement volume of domestic and foreign suppliers,
and the demand for foreign suppliers is still strong; therefore, TSMC removed the
target beginning in 2021.
2.
In 2020-23, the proportion of spare parts in advanced processes increased compared

to previous years. However, the localization of spare parts in advanced processes is
still in the development stage, so the annual target was not reached.
3.
To improve transparency in localized procurement information, a new management
indicator for the local procurement ratio of overseas subsidiaries was introduced in
2024.
4.
Based on these changes, we summarize the read-across to TSMC’s suppliers by different
sectors:
TSMC has high specs for semi wafer, which is the largest portion of the semi raw

materials market. As TSMC has still not yet brought back its target of “local sourcing
of raw materials”, we believe the leading semi wafer companies in Taiwan, such as
GlobalWafers, may still have room to strengthen its technology capability to meet
TSMC’s requirements, particularly for advanced node production.
1.
For indirect raw materials, we believe the future growth driver is likely to be TSMC’s
overseas facilities, particularly TSMC Arizona, which is likely to become an important

facility that will ramp up products continuously, while the localization rate in Taiwan
has been increasing to a relatively high level.
2.
TSMC indicated that the spare parts and back-end equipment localization rates were
not satisfactory due to the rising requirements for advanced processes and
packaging, which implies there may be still room for spare parts and back-end
equipment companies to further strengthen their technology capabilities.
3.

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
29

### Page 30

Fig. 51: TSMC’s semi material, spare parts and back-end equipment localization plan
Source: TSMC, Nomura estimates

T
SMC’s capex in 2027F could exceed market expectations
TSMC continues to build up new capacity in Taiwan and overseas. TSMC now has 26 
advanced wafer fabs and advanced packaging facilities ramping up or planned globally (18 of 
them are in Taiwan). We formulate our high-volume manufacturing timeline assumptions in 
Fig. 52-53 , which suggest that TSMC will have more fab modules coming onstream in post 
2027 and are consistent with management commentary: “… So 2026-2027 for the short term, 
we are looking to improve our productivity. 2028 to 2029, yes, we start to increase our 
capacity significantly” during the company's earnings call in early-2026. As a result, we expect 
TSMC to spend up to around USD70bn in capex in 2027F considering more than 10 new fab 
modules would be expanded simultaneously in Taiwan and overseas.  
Fig. 52: TSMC’s total fab module numbers and the net additions of fab modules
Source: TSMC, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
30

### Page 31

Fig. 53: TSMC’s fab expansion plans
Source: TSMC, Nomura estimates

Fig. 54: TSMC’s capex and capex-intensity trends
W
e expect TSMC’s capex could reach USD70bn in 2027F
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
31

### Page 32

High-NA EUV – the evolution of EUV in A10 
n
ode onward
Currently, the most advanced chips are manufactured using EUV lithography, specifically 
ASML's Twinscan NXE:3400C system, which has 0.33 numerical aperture (NA) optics, 
providing a 13nm resolution (half pitch). This level of resolution is sufficient for a single-
pattern approach at 7nm/6nm nodes, with around 36nm metal pitches (>13nm*2=26nm), 
and at 5nm with around 28nm metal pitches. However, as the metal pitches decrease 
below 26nm (beyond the 3nm node), 13nm resolution might require double patterning. 
For post-3nm nodes, ASML and its partners are developing a new EUV tool called the 
Twinscan EXE:5000-series with a 0.55 NA (High-NA) lens that can achieve 8nm 
resolution, which is anticipated to eliminate multi-patterning at 3nm and beyond. Intel had 
already installed high-NA EUV in 2H24 for its 14A node development, and TSMC in 
2025F for its 2nd-gen 1.4nm development. Although High-NA scanners are still under 
development and the usage for major customers’ mass production may not happen until 
2029-30F (as TSMC would not use high-NA for mass production until A10), we believe 
high-NA EUV is expected to be extremely complex, large, and expensive, with a price tag 
of over USD400mn each. Additionally, these scanners will require new optics, a new light 
source, and even new fab buildings to accommodate them. Despite these challenges, 
leading makers of logic chips and memory devices are willing to adopt new technologies 
to keep up with the scaling of performance, power, area, and costs (PPAc) of 
semiconductors. Therefore, high-NA EUV scanners are crucial, in our view.
Fig. 55: Specs of ASML’s DUV and EUV
Source: ASML, Nomura research

T
he three factors of photolithography – wave length, 
numerical apertures, and k1 coefficient
The critical dimension (CD), the smallest possible feature size that can be printed with a 
certain photolithography-exposure tool, is proportional to the wavelength of light divided 
by the numerical aperture (NA) of the optics. So, smaller CDs can be achieved by using 
either shorter light wavelengths or larger numerical apertures, or a combination of the two. 
The k1 value can be pushed as close as possible to its physical lower limit of 0.25 by 
improving manufacturing-process control. The formula is “CD=k1*(wave length/NA)”.
In general, the most economical ways to boost resolution are by increasing the numerical 
aperture and by improving tool and process control to allow for a smaller k1. Only after 
chipmakers run out of options to further improve NA and k1 do they resort to reducing the 
wavelength of the light source. The switch to EUV (13.5nm light) from 193nm light has 
done part of the job of decreasing CD. Now it looks like NA will be boosted again, from 
today’s 0.33 to 0.55.
How high-NA EUV works? Anamorphic optics is critical
Increasing the NA from 0.33 to the target value of 0.55 inevitably entails a cascade of 
other adjustments. Projection systems such as EUV lithography have an NA at the wafer 
and also at the mask. When you increase the NA at the wafer, it also increases the NA at 
the mask. Consequently, at the mask, the incoming and outgoing cones of light become 
larger and must be angled away from each other to avoid overlapping. Overlapping cones 
of light produce an asymmetric diffraction pattern, resulting in unpleasant imaging effects.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
32

### Page 33

But there’s a limit to this angle. Because the reflective masks needed for EUV lithography 
are 
actually made of multiple layers of material, it is not possible to get a proper reflection 
above a certain reflective angle. EUV masks have a maximum reflective angle of 11 
degrees. There are other challenges as well, but reflective angle is the biggest, according 
to ASML.
The angle of reflection at the mask in today’s EUV is at its limit of 11 degrees. Increasing 
the NA of EUV would result in an angle of reflection that is too wide (more than 15 
degrees). So high-NA EUV uses anamorphic optics supplied by Zeiss (unlisted), which 
allow the angle to increase in only one direction on the X-axis. The field that can be 
imaged this way is half the size on the Y-axis, so the pattern on the mask must be 
distorted in one direction, but that’s good enough to maintain throughput through the 
machine.
Fig. 56: Mask multilayer reflection vs 
an
gle of incidence
The reflection decreases significantly when angle 
of incidence is approaching 15 degrees
Source: ASML, Nomura research
Fig. 57: EUV: High-NA requires an anamorphic lens
T
he anamorphic lens can reduce the angle of incidence on the Y-axis by half, but results in a half-
field printing as well 
Source: ASML, Nomura research

Fig. 58: Half-field printed chips vs full-
fi
eld printed chips – 1
The size of half field printed chip is half of full field’s
Source: ASML, Nomura research
Fig. 59: Half-field printed chips vs full-field printed chips – 2

Source: ASML, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
33

### Page 34

Photoresist, stitch overlay control, SoIC (hybrid bonding), and 
ab
sorber for mask are also critical for high-NA EUV 
Based on the fundamentals of high-NA EUV and the difficulties found during the R&D 
stages, we expect there are two critical technology issues that need to be resolved: 
photoresist and stitch overlay. 
The change of photoresist and related materials are required
With a higher NA, photons strike the wafer at a more shallow angle. That requires thinner 
photoresist layers are needed to avoid shadowing. The upside is that a thinner resist layer 
reduces the risk of pattern collapse, as the aspect ratio of resist features is smaller. 
However, it also provides less protection for the wafer. In addition, long etch processes 
used to create high-aspect-ratio wafer features can erode the resist layer, ultimately 
degrading the transferred pattern. With less material, a thinner resist also captures fewer 
photons, potentially making roughness and other stochastic effects worse.
At present, metal-oxide resists are probably the leading alternative to photo acid-driven 
chemistries, or chemically amplified resists (CAR). Based on a metal-oxide core, 
surrounded by ligands that tune solubility, cross-linking, and other properties, these 
resists offer inherently good etch resistance. The dense core absorbs more energy, too, 
attenuating electron energy and reducing blur. Due to the change of materials, the 
photoresist price for high-NA EUV could be much higher than for the existing EUV. 
According to our industry survey, the value of photoresist for high-NA EUV can go up to 
USD10,000-40,000 per gallon, a significant increase from USD5,000 for existing EUV. 
Improved etch resistance and absorption address the most serious limitations of thin 
resists, offering a high NA-friendly solution. Unfortunately, only negative tone metal-oxide 
resists are available, so they cannot be used for contact holes. Both Inpria (acquired by 
JSR) and Lam Research offer metal-oxide resists, differentiated in part by their 
approaches to development. 
Lam Research is attempting to disrupt the whole stack. Instead of a wet PR technology 
using a spin coater, it plans to use a chemical vapor deposition process to layer on a 
metal PR. The throughput and patterned lines would be slower but more accurate. If using 
Tokyo Electron (TEL) (8035 JP, Buy) and JSR’s solution, due to the change of the PR 
materials, the developer would need to be changed as well. Currently, 
Tetramethylammonium Hydroxide (TMAH) is widely used as developer for existing EUV. 
But for high-NA EUV, propylene glycol methyl ether acetate (PGMEA) with acid is likely a 
better solution. We expect TOK is likely the major supplier. The purity requirement of 
developer would be higher as well.
Although the existing wet process solution supplied by TEL and JSR will be likely more 
cost effective without procuring the new equipment, we expect TSMC could be more likely 
to adopt Lam Research’s solution in the high-NA EUV era.
Fig. 60: Reduction in photoresist film thickness 
Source: Cadence, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
34

### Page 35

Fig. 61: Advantage of using metal-oxide photoresists over chemically amplified 
p
hotoresists
Source: Inperia, Nomura research

Fig. 62: Price of photoresist per gallon
A
lthough MOR carries higher ASP, the usage is much smaller than regular high-NA EUV photoresist
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 63: TEL and JSR vs Lam Research’s solution
Lam 
Research is using dry deposition and dry develop equipment to grow/eliminate photoresist 
Source: TEL, Lam Research, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
35

### Page 36

Fig. 64: Specs of different photoresists by nodes and major suppliers
Source: Nomura estimates

S
titch overlay control for large-die-size ICs is critical, in our view
ICs with very large die sizes have become important products for the semi industry, such 
as Nvidia’s gaming and AI GPUs and certain high-performance computing chips from 
Intel, Google and Tesla. These processors are so large that only one die can fit in a 
26mm*33mm exposure field, and such devices are too large to fit in the half-field (only 
26mm*16.5mm) of high-NA exposure tools. In order to continue producing devices with 
similar chip sizes when entering into sub-2nm nodes, stitching will need to be adopted. 
With stitching, part of the chip layout is patterned using one mask, while the remainder is 
patterned by exposure to a second mask. 
Stitching requires very precise implementation by the tight process control requirements 
of the nodes at which high-NA EUV lithography will be applied. There are also special 
considerations that apply to EUV lithography. In addition to pattern-placement errors, 
there could be aerial image cross-talk across the stitch boundary, as well as variations in 
flare due to different pattern densities on the two sides of the boundary. These 
phenomena that affect critical dimensions can be compensated through OPC, and pattern 
placement errors can also be corrected by calculating the displacement due to stress 
reduction and compensating during mask writing. Because the magnitude of these effects 
is the greatest near the stitch boundary, and the accuracy of such corrections may 
become inadequate very close to the boundary, a 1μm exclusion zone between subfields 
has been proposed. While such an exclusion zone would have little impact on the number 
of dies per wafer, it does preclude geometries that cross-stitch boundaries, such as 
interconnects. Fortunately, the tightest pitch metal layers are usually confined to logic and 
memory cells and local routing. These can be done with high-NA EUV lithography, while 
the routing that needs to cross-stitch boundaries can be patterned using 0.33 NA EUV 
lithography. It is also reasonably straightforward to avoid having contacts and vias within 
this exclusion zone. The special issues associated with stitching provide additional 
motivation for using multiple patterning with 0.33 NA exposure tools rather than high-NA 
EUV lithography, particularly for across-die routing.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
36

### Page 37

Fig. 65: High-NA EUV process for large and small die size ICs
T
he stitching (two reticles exposure) will only be seen on the ICs with die size larger than 16.5mm*26mm
Source: SPIE, Nomura research

Fig. 66: Some leading semi companies have large die size chips over 429mm^2 (half 
fi
eld)
Die size larger than 429mm^2 are mostly used for servers, AI, and gaming. AMD has turned to chiplet 
design; thus the single die size is not as big as those of its peers.
Source: Company data, Nomura research

T
he material of absorber on mask could be changed to enhance contrast and 
reduce dosage 
Tantalum-based absorbers for EUV masks enabled the development of EUV lithography. 
However, with dimensions shrinking, mask 3D effects are becoming increasingly 
significant when such absorbers are used. Recent efforts have gone into identifying new 
mask absorbers for both binary and attenuated phase-shifting masks (attPSM). For binary 
masks, mask 3D effects can be reduced by having the real part of the index of refraction 
of the absorber be close to 1.0, while the extinction coefficient (k = imaginary part of the 
index of refraction) should be as large as possible. This latter condition enables the use of 
thin absorbers.
Since it is desirable to have an appreciable amount of reflection from the absorber on an 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
37

### Page 38

attPSM, the absorber should have a moderate extinction coefficient. This means that 
candidat
e elements for the absorbers of attPSMs should be those in the lower left corner 
of Fig. 67 , although they may be alloyed with other elements. Since rhodium (Rh) is an 
extremely rare element, all isotopes of technetium (Tc) are radioactive, and there is a 
dearth of volatile compounds of palladium (Pd), absorbers for attenuated phase-shifting 
masks need to contain substantial amounts of ruthenium (Ru) or molybdenum (Mo). This 
has implications for the capping layer, which has long been composed of ruthenium, since 
the capping layer has also provided etch selectivity to the absorber. Accordingly, use of 
absorbers containing a significant amount of ruthenium will also require an alternative 
capping layer.
However, this change may not bring huge value addition to mask makers, in our view, as 
there are already Ru and Mo-based materials in a mask, so it is mainly the change of 
material mix by using more Ru and Mo-based materials to replace the existing TaBN 
materials. The price of the mask is mainly decided by the blank defect quality – if the 
mask has no defect, it can be extremely expensive. Since it has been already the case for 
EUV masks, the incremental value added to mask makers from the change of the 
materials of absorber is limited, in our view. 
Fig. 67: Refraction index n vs extinction coefficient k by different materials
Source: IMEC, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
38

### Page 39

Fig. 68: Structure of EUV mask

Source: Hoya, Nomura research
Fig. 69: Comparison of imaging through an attenuated PSM 
an
d a conventional mask  
By using the attPSM mask with Mo and Ru-based absorber, the contrast can be 
amplified, with better intensity at wafer and result in clearer IC circuit
Source: Research Gate, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
39

### Page 40

3D transistors and SoIC are playing more 
i
mportant roles 
3D transistors rising as pitch scalability is slowing down
A major feature of logic ICs is the 3D circuit. In recent years, this trend towards 3D has 
gradually moved away from overall circuit design towards the internal structure of the 
transistor. As circuits shrink, the contact plane between the gate and the electronic channel 
below also shrinks, making it less able to control current. In the 1990s, Professor Chenming 
Calvin Hu and his team invented the “fin field-effect transistor” (FinFET). The electronic 
channel of the FinFET is a fin-like plate structure that wraps into the gate, thus increasing 
the contact surface from one side to three sides, a significant design improvement. The next 
goal is to build a “gate-all-around field-effect transistor” (GAAFET), in which the gate 
material surrounds the channel region on all sides (four sides). 
Fig. 70: Contact area between gate and source/drain electrodes
T
he larger contact areas, the better power consumption
Source: Samsung, Nomura research

Moore'
s Law may still continue along with the pitch to scale down further once the leading 
semi companies start to adopt high-NA EUV at around 1nm (A10). In this case, the giants 
in the semi market, such as ASML and TSMC, could still widen their technology 
leadership over other semi companies for next decade. However, if high-NA EUV 
eventually proven to be less cost effective, the pitch scaling could be no longer the key 
topic in the future, where the whole Semi industry will focus more on device/transistor 
structure innovation, from 2D to 3D structure with more complicated, and transistors are 
stacked on top of each other, called a complimentary FET (cFET) device. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
40

### Page 41

Fig. 71: Metal pitch scaling trend in the history
Source: Nomura estimates, IMEC

Fig. 72: Semi logic nodes roadmap
Source: IMEC, Nomura research

W
e are reminded of the lessons learned from the NAND industry. In 2017, when the semi 
industry witnessed a migration of 2D NAND to 3D NAND, there were two consequences:
Etching and CVD-related process demand surged more than the industry 
average level
1. 
In 2016-17, the NAND industry started to migrate NAND manufacturing technology 
from 2D NAND to 3D NAND, which drove strong equipment demand for etching and 
CVD (including ALD and LPCVD) processes. Thus, we expect once the transistor 
structure of logic IC also migrates from 2D to 3D, demand for those types of 
equipment will also surge strongly.
The approach to fabricate stacked-Si nanowires for GAA devices in 
Fig. 74  includes: 
1) a stack of Si/SiGe layers are grown on silicon wafer; 2) anisotropic plasma etching 
(vertical direction) is achieved in an inductively coupled plasma (ICP) reactor; 3) there 
is isotropic and selective etching (both vertical and horizontal directions) of SiGe 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
41

### Page 42

layers in an RPS (remote plasma source) reactor; 4) a two-step process alternates 
oxidat
ion (ALD) and etch; 5) horizontal Si nanowires are released.
The key players of etching and CVD equipments worldwide include LAM Research, 
Applied Materials, TEL, and ASM International.
It could be easier for new entrants, such as YMTC, to catch up with market 
leaders if pitch scaling slows down
2. 
However, if the pitch scaling of logic IC is halted or slows down meaningfully, new 
entrants or lower-tier players could catch up more easily with the market leaders, 
which used to be able to widen the technology leadership by pushing the pitch 
smaller, as the technology barrier of pitch shrink is higher than the structure change 
from 2D to 3D. For example, YMTC (unlisted), as a new entrant to the NAND industry 
since 2019, could quickly ramp up its production capacity with technology 
improvement from 32-layer 3D NAND to 128-layer 3D NAND within just four years. 
As a result, although currently high-NA EUV is still in the R&D stage with many 
technology difficulties yet to be resolved, our basic assumption is that semi giants 
such as ASML and TSMC would want to make it happen, as they could lose their 
leading positions in a brutal semi market where only market leaders are able to enjoy 
excess profits. 
Fig. 73: Global SPE market to semi market ratio
Source: Nomura estimates based on Gartner, WSTS and SEMI data

Fig. 74: Process of forming the GAA transistor
Source: Journal of Vacuum Science & Technology A Vacuum Surfaces and Films, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
42

### Page 43

Fig. 75: Key processes and main production equipment for 3D NAND
Source: Nomura research

Fig. 76: Global SPE market by different front-end equipment 
seg
ments
Source: Gartner, Nomura research
Fig. 77: Global SPE market % by different front-end equipment 
seg
ments
Source: Gartner, Nomura research

Fig. 78: Etching equipment market share, 2025
Source: Gartner, Nomura research
Fig. 79: CVD equipment market share, 2025
Source: Gartner, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
43

### Page 44

SoIC (hybrid bonding) demand to surge quickly in 2026-27F on 
w
ards; TSMC’s SoIC capacity will likely grow significantly
An alternative solution to the high-NA EUV stitching issue is the avoidance of large dies 
altogether. With advanced packaging, it has proven possible to maintain high 
performance even while separately fabricating parts of circuits that previously had been 
fully integrated into a single die. This is currently being done to improve the cost-
effectiveness of advanced lithography. For example, the high-performance logic circuits of 
AMD’s EPYC processor have been fabricated using 7nm technology, while input/output 
functions have been fabricated using lower-cost 14nm processes. In other applications, 
memory access rates have been improved using advanced packaging technology. It may 
also be possible to achieve high levels of performance with maximum die sizes that can fit 
into the exposure fields of high-NA EUV exposure tools.
SoIC demand was slow across the industry in 2025, mainly due to:
1) Intel held up the capex;
2) TSMC’s SoIC demand not growing as there was no meaningful new customers 
other than AMD and Apple (AAPL US, Not rated) yet;
3) AMD’s AI chip demand was not as strong as expected.
However, we expect the SoIC demand to surge quickly in 2026-27F mainly as:
1) AMD's SoIC demand is re-accelerating;
2) We expect COUPE (EIC and PIC stacking) will start to use hybrid bonding 
technology from 2026F onwards;
3) Samsung (005930 KS, Buy) and Hynix (000660 KS, Buy) are procuring some 
hybrid bonding equipment for small volume of HBM stacking production;
4) Intel resumes some equipment procurement  
Based on our estimates, TSMC’s SoIC capacity was around 1.9k pieces by the end of 
2023F, and it likely expanded to over 4k by the end of 2024F, as AMD MI300 widely 
adopted SoIC with growing volume throughout 2024. SoIC capacity could have further 
expanded to ~10k or higher by end-2025F, and is likely to accelerate to 15k/30k in 
2026F/2027F to match future demand growth. As a result, we estimate TSMC’s SoIC 
capacity will record a CAGR of over 90% in 2025-27F, which will also drive a significant 
recovery in hybrid bonder orders in 2026-27F from 2025 trough levels. 
Fig. 80: TSMC’s potential monthly SoIC capacity
Source: Nomura estimates
Fig. 81: Besi’s hybrid bonder order
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
44

### Page 45

Fig. 82: Hybrid bonder order breakdown by different end 
ap
plications/customers in units, 2026F
Source: Nomura estimates

Hyb
rid bonding potentially requires more sophisticated chip-to-chip/wafer bonders. 
Although wafer bonding is not a new technology as it has been used for MEMS or 
CIS (CMOS image sensor) with a 3D stacking structure for years, it would be more 
complicated if it is used on chiplets, as there could be multiple ICs integrated 
together (chip-to-chip bonding). The hybrid bonding equipment requires high precision, 
 with placement deviation of less than 0.2um. The more ICs are integrated in the chiplets, 
the lower the throughput and the greater the difficulty in bonding different ICs.
To reach the high accuracy and density of hybrid bonding, there are very stringent 
requirements on cleanliness and surface flatness as well. Maintaining cleanliness of 
chips/wafers is the first requirement. Particles come from many steps such as wafer 
dicing, grinding, and polishing. Any kind of friction also generates particles, which is an 
issue, especially because hybrid bonding involves mechanically picking up dies and 
placing them on top of the other chips. The surface of chips/wafers flatness threshold is 
generally said to be 0.5nm for the dielectric and 1nm for the copper pads. To achieve the 
correct dishing profile with a high level of surface smoothness, multiple CMP steps 
combining low and high Cu removal slurries are required; thus, CMP is becoming a 
critical process for hybrid bonding. 
For SoIC wafer dicing, an issue is the particles that are generated from the process. 
Blade dicing is generally not used as it is the most dirty: resulting in a lot of particles and a 
lot of yield loss. Laser dicing is a better solution but it generates laser damage on the 
edge of SoICs. Plasma dicing is preferred to laser and blade dicing as it is a cleaner 
process with much less damage to SoICs. However, plasma dicing is the most 
extreme method and is a similar mechanism to etching away the scribe separating the 
dies, and the throughput of plasma dicing is much slower than blade and laser dicing 
particularly when the die size of the chips gets bigger.
Fig. 83: Chip to chip/wafer hybrid bonding
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
45

### Page 46

Fig. 84: CMP process of SoIC
Source: Nomura research

Fig. 85: Comparison of different dicing technologies
Source: ITRI, Nomura research

Fig. 86: Process flow and major equipment companies of SoIC
Source: Shraddha Kshirsagar, Nomura research

T
he die bonder market size of hybrid bonding 
According to our calculations, the ASP of the die bonder of hybrid bonding is likely at 
around USD3m, and we believe Besi is the leader in chip-to-chip/wafer hybrid bonding 
equipment. The throughput, based on our industry checks, is up to 2000UPH (units per 
hour). Besi has established a good business relationship with TSMC and Intel and is the 
clear market leader, in our view. Other players, such as Shibaura (6590 JP, Not rated), 
are also trying to expand their presence in the hybrid bonding market. Other players worth 
watching, in our view, are TEL and ASML, which may be able to leverage their solid 
relationships at the front-end equipment side with TSMC to further explore business 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
46

### Page 47

opportunities in the hybrid bonder market.
Fig. 87: Hybrid bonder vendors
Source: Nomura research

O
ur assumptions on the demand and market size of hybrid bonding equipment are listed 
in the below table. If chiplets eventually become the standard beyond Moore’s Law, we 
estimate the market size of hybrid bonding equipment purely would be at minimum of 
around USD1bn, in addition to the current packaging equipment market of around USD5-
6bn in 2025-26F. 
The key variables are:
Whether only non-mobile CPU (PC/NB/server) will adopt chiplets design, or all 
mobile CPU will follow eventually? Or only Apple’s CPU will follow?
1. 
What is the actual throughput of hybrid bonding equipment? The throughput 
may vary along with the complex designs of chiplets.
2. 
How many ICs are in a chiplet? The minimum is two ICs, but this could increase 
for more complex designs or with a higher integration level.
3. 
Fig. 88: Hybrid bonding assumptions
Source: Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
47

### Page 48

Backside power delivery (BPD) and wafer-to-
w
afer technology to drive growth of Semi 
wafer, wafer bonding, grinding and CMP 
process 
The introduction of backside power delivery
A power delivery network is designed to provide power supply and reference voltage to 
the active devices on the die most efficiently. Traditionally, it is realized as a network of 
low-resistive metal wires fabricated through back-end-of-line (BEOL) processing on the 
frontside of the wafer. The power delivery network shares this space with the signal 
network, i.e., the interconnects that are designed to transport the signal. Due to the 
narrower pitches in the signal network, the loss of energy results in a power delivery or IR 
drop when bringing the power down.
A backside power delivery network is the solution to these issues. The idea is to decouple 
the power delivery network from the signal network by moving the entire power 
distribution network to the backside of the silicon wafer, which today serves only as a 
carrier. From there, it enables direct power delivery to the standard cells through wider, 
less resistive metal lines, without the electrons needing to travel through the complex 
BEOL stack. This approach promises to benefit the IR drop, improve the power delivery 
performance, reduce routing congestion in the BEOL, and when properly designed, allow 
for further standard cell height scaling.
There are two silicon wafers used in the back-side power delivery process – one is a 
silicon wafer acting as an interposer (first Semi wafer) in between signal net work, and 
another acts as the permanent silicon carrier (second Semi wafer) of the device. As such, 
we expect the usage of silicon wafers to increase along with wafer bonding. On the other 
hand, the wafer bonding, grinding and thinning process will also increase to form the 
silicon interposer between the signal and power network (
Fig. 89 -90 ). 
Fig. 89: Structure of TSMC’s super power rail
Source: TSMC, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
48

### Page 49

Fig. 90: BPD process flow
Source: IMEC, Nomura research

T
he inflection point for BPD should appear in 2027F when 
TSMC’s starts ramping up A16 capacity
We believe 2027F would be the inflection point for BPD as TSMC's ramped-up A16 scale 
drives the dominant share of global BPD capacity and its associated Semi wafer, bonding, 
thinning, and CMP demand. We expect the majority of the high-performance computing (HPC) 
chips to adopt BPD technology, while other chips could continue using the normal version 
node without the BPD function. As a result, for TSMC, we expect its A16 and A12 nodes to be 
BPD ready, while N2 and A14 nodes are not equipped with the BPD function. By 2030F, 
global BPD capacity may contribute an additional low-single-digit percentage of total 
global 12” semi wafer demand.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
49

### Page 50

Fig. 91: Key incremental processes required for BPD
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 92: BPD capacity of TSMC and other foundries
Source: Nomura estimates

W
afer-bonded NAND will also see an inflection point from 
2027F driven by NAND makers’ adoption besides YMTC
The wafer-bonded NAND technology was introduced by YMTC for the first time in 2018, 
YMTC’s wafer-bonded technology is called Xtacking, and can be also called CMOS 
directly bonded to array (CBA) technology, which makes the CMOS circuit (logic) wafers 
and memory cells array wafers can be manufactured separately and bonded together. 
Before the launch of CBA architecture, 3D NAND architectures in the market were divided 
into traditional side-by-side structure and CnA (CMOS next to Array) architecture. 
Since the two types of wafers are manufactured in parallel, there is also the added benefit 
of shortened production times compared to the conventional method. Performing high-
temperature processing solely on the memory cell array wafer makes it possible to 
achieve the optimal temperature to ensure reliability without having to consider the impact 
on the CMOS circuit. By separating the wafer manufacturing processes, the performance 
of the CMOS circuit and the memory cell array can be maximized.
As a result, while YMTC has already adopted CBA technology to produce its 3D NAND 
since 2018, Kioxia (unlisted) has undertaken some volume production since 2H24 as well. 
However, we expect Kioxia to further increase its wafer-bonded NAND capacity more 
meaningfully by the end of 2026F, while Samsung and Hynix will follow by 2027F. We 
believe it is likely to be positive for the following supply chain sectors:
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
50

### Page 51

The cleanroom space will increase as more wafer-to-wafer bonding processes are 
required 
to produce the same amount of NAND supply.
1. 
The Semi wafer usage will increase due to the use of additional logic wafers.2. 
Demand for wafer-to-wafer bonding tool will also increase.3. 
However, the cleanroom space and Semi wafer demand growth would not be 100% but 
more likely to grow by around 40% more mainly due to the faster front-end process time 
required to produce each CMOS and memory wafer (
Fig. 96 ). By 2030F, global wafer-
bonded NAND capacity may contribute an additional mid-to-high-single-digit 
percentage of total global 12” semi wafer demand.
Fig. 93: 3D NAND: CNA vs CBA structure 
Source: Kioxia, Nomura research
Fig. 94: The wafer-to-wafer bonding structure
Source: Kioxia, Nomura research

Fig. 95: YMTC’s Xtacking technology
Source: YMTC, Nomura research

Fig. 96: Wafer-bonded NAND wafer input vs output
T
he cleanroom space and Semi wafer demand will be 40% more 
Source: Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
51

### Page 52

Fig. 97: Wafer-bonded NAND capacity % 
W
afer bonded NAND capacity will start to grow more meaningfully from 
2026-27F
Source: Nomura estimates
Fig. 98: Incremental wafer-bonded NAND capacity vs 
i
ncremental Semi wafer demand vs incremental wafer-to-wafer 
bonding tool demand
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 99: Major wafer bonding tool suppliers and their specs
Source: Nomura research

DRAM-o
n-logic wafer-on-wafer (WoW) stacking an emerging 
trend and could grow meaningfully in 2028F
AI inference is a memory-bound task in the smart-edge domain requiring high memory 
bandwidth and energy efficiency with the modest compute power in between 45 
and100+TOPS. The DRAM-on-logic WoW can achieve 1TB/s bandwidth for throughput 
higher than 100 TPS (tokens per second).  We believe the technology’s strong 
momentum could start from 2028F, led by AI agents in automotive smart cockpit, 
premium smartphone/PCs, and robotics. 
Fig. 100: Difference between MCM vs WoW for edge AI chips
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
52

### Page 53

Glass core substrate demand could emerge
fro
m 2027F at the earliest... but with
uncertainty
Glass core substrates and interposers are being pursued intensively by leading device
makers, materials suppliers, and equipment vendors for advanced packaging
applications. Intel has publicly demonstrated its glass core substrates for next-generation
advanced packaging, positioning the work as foundational research for the latter part of
this decade rather than imminent high‑volume manufacturing, which helps frame

expectations for the technology's maturity today. In parallel, Absolics (unlisted), an affiliate
of SKC (unlisted), has secured preliminary US CHIPS Act support to establish a glass‑
substrate facility in Georgia, signaling real capital formation while still implying multi‑year
ramps before meaningful production validation. Materials suppliers such as AGC (5201
JP, Neutral), Corning (GLW US, Not rated) and Schott (unlisted) are aligning portfolios

and programs around low‑coefficient‑of‑thermal‑expansion (CTE) glass and packaging‑
grade formats, indicating upstream readiness to support trials and early adoption phases.
For AI and high‑performance computing (HPC), package footprints, signal counts, and
power delivery demands stress organic laminates on warpage, via pitch, and dielectric
loss, whereas glass offers the following advantages including:
Flatness and less warpage1.
Better heat dissipation2.

Low loss favorable to high‑speed signaling3.
Large‑format integration4.
The prudent view is that glass interposers and glass core substrates are being actively
pursued by credible players, but success remains to be earned in manufacturing and
economics.
Through-Glass Vias (TGV): the critical technology of glass
core substrate/interposer
Through‑Glass Vias (TGV) underpins vertical power and signal paths in glass, typically
formed by processes such as laser‑assisted drilling and etch, then metallized by full

copper fill or sidewall plating with dielectric infill, each bringing distinct stress, planarity,
and reliability trade‑offs.
High‑volume viability depends on repeatable control of via geometry, seed coverage in
reentrant sections, void‑free metal deposition, chemical‑mechanical planarization
budgets, and crack suppression during thermal cycling in thin panels, together with high‑
speed, 100% in‑line inspection capable of covering panels that can contain over a million

vias to prevent undetected defects from escaping into downstream steps. Hence, it is
critical to reach the aspect ratio of over 10:1 level compared with the existing mature
technology of 5:1 level, in our view.
Progress has been steady across drilling physics, plating chemistries, and metrology, but
we believe the industry is still converging on stable, transferable process windows that
remain robust under production variability.
Broadcom’s switch ASIC is likely the pioneer of glass core

substrate
We believe Broadcom is likely to be one of the early movers in adopting glass core
substrate by 2027F at the earliest, which may be first adopted on its switch ASIC. The
main reason why Broadcom is considering the use glass core substrate is mainly
to avoid the heat issue which could result in the warpage of substrate. By using the
glass core substrate, it can be a good heat spreader with better heat dissipation
through copper pillars, in our view.

We expect leading substrate makers such as Unimicron (3037 TT, Buy) to possibly work
on glass core substrate development while Broadcom has also invested in a substrate
production factory with Toppan (7911 JP, Buy) in Singapore. We are also seeing possible
supply chain partners including Schott as a major glass material supplier, with DR Laser
(300776 CH, Not rated), Hi-Nano Optoelectronics (unlisted), Spirox (3055 TT, Not rated),
and Innostars (7828 TT, Not rated) each cooperating with Ingentec for TGV formation.

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
53

### Page 54

Fig. 101: Process of glass substrate and some supply chain names related to Broadcom
Source: Manz, Nomura research

Un
certainty 1: Cost and technical issues are not fully resolved 
yet
According to our estimates, currently the TGV process with only a small trial production 
volume can charge USD400-500 per unit, which means the total ASP of a glass core 
substrate is likely to be over USD1,500 per unit, which is significantly more expensive 
than the large-size ABF substrate of around USD200. Thus, we assume that the glass 
core substrate’s ASP – once it enters mass production – should fall to USD400 at least, 
otherwise it would not be competitive in terms of cost (
Fig. 102 ). 
Another issue is the RDL (redistribution layer) dielectric peeling and delamination issue, 
which is currently the technology bottleneck at the substrate maker side. Once the TGV 
process is done, the glass core with copper pillars embedded needs to be sent to 
substrate makers to form the RDL to complete the overall glass core substrate production. 
However, the CTE (coefficient of thermal) mismatch and surface adhesion challenges in 
between different materials including glass, ABF and copper are fundamental physics 
issues, not just engineering refinements. As a result, most of the substrate makers are not 
aggressively pushing forward the mass production of glass core substrate at this moment 
(
Fig. 103 ).
Fig. 102: Potential BOM cost of glass core substrate vs ABF substrate
Source: Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
54

### Page 55

Fig. 103: RDL dielectric peeling and delamination issue on glass core substrate
Source: Nomura research

Un
certainty 2: Leading substrate companies are prioritising 
Intel’s EMIB-T; Broadcom may need to provide more 
incentives
Intel first introduced its “embedded multi-die interconnect bridge (EMIB)” in 2017 which 
utilizes silicon bridges buried in the build-up layers of an IC substrate to connect chiplets 
on top without any interposer (
Fig. 104 ). Intel has brought EMIB to several internal 
products since then (Fig. 105 ), and announced to open its advanced packaging 
technology portfolio to external customers in 2021, as part of its Intel Foundry/IDM 2.0 
strategy. We believe Alchip’s (3661 TT, Buy) AWS Trainium project was the first external 
customer of Intel Foundry’s EMIB that sought an alternative to TSMC’s CoWoS, aligning 
with the start of advanced packaging revenue in 2Q24 flagged by Intel’s management.
Although we believe TSMC could aim its 2026F CoWoS supply target towards 2mn 
wafers a year in response to AI customers’ strong bookings, due to concerns about 
insufficient capacity support, customers have started evaluating second sources such as 
OSATs and possibly Intel (
Asia Semi & Server anchor report ). Our supply chain feedback 
suggests Intel’s value propositions against the current constrained supply backdrop could 
lie in: 1) its 2.5D integration experiences in cost-effective EMIB (despite mostly internal 
uses) and roadmap to stitch larger, more chiplets; and 2) “made in America” amidst 
reshoring needs. We have observed that MediaTek’s (2454 TT, Buy) next-generation 
Google TPU project in 2027F could potentially adopt Intel’s “EMIB-T” package.
Compared with the existing EMIB, the new EMIB-T technology aims to incoporate 
through-silicon vias (TSVs) within the bridge die to create a vertical power delivery 
network, thereby shortening the routing distance to imporve power delivery efficiency and 
performance. According to Intel, EMIB-T targets HBM4/4E and logic chiplet 
interconnectivity with the lowest possible cost, and the company’s roadmap is to scale to 
the integration of >8x reticle size total top silicon area on a ~120x120mm substrate by 
2026E and >12x reticle size top silicon area on a >120x180mm substrate by 2028E (
Fig. 
106 ). In addition, the process flow of EMIB-T is not significantly different from 
conventional EMIB, except that the TSV bridge dies are placed into substrate cavities with 
solder joint formation.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
55

### Page 56

Fig. 104: An illustration of EMIB

Source: Intel, Nomura research

Fig. 105: Intel's internal products based on EMIB interconnects

Source: Intel, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
56

### Page 57

Fig. 106: Intel’s EMIB scaling roadmap

Source:Intel, Nomura research

W
e believe due to Intel’s strong commitment to leading substrate partners such as Ibiden, 
Unimicron, and Shinko to bring the EMIB-T technology into mass production, the leading 
substrate companies are expanding their capacities for Intel aggressively through co-
investment, which could place glass core substrate at a lower priority than EMIB-T. 
Unimicron has recently announced multiple capex spending on procuring equipment from 
Toray and ASMPT NEXX, which we believe is mainly for EMIB-T capacity expansion (
Fig. 107 ). As a result, if Broadcom is really committed to bring glass core substrate into 
mass production, we think it would be better if the company co-invests in capacity with its 
supply chain partners and provide more incentives; otherwise, the supply chain partners 
may not be able to ramp up their capacity smoothly considering the lack of resources and 
funding for glass core substrate production.
Fig. 107: Unimicron’s fixed asset procurement in April-May 2026
W
e expect these procurements are mainly driven by EMIB-T
Source: MOPS, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
57

### Page 58

InP substrate and Photonics SOI wafers are 
key 
materials for optical communications
Driven by global AI leaders’ buoyant demand for high-speed optical transceivers, as well 
as persistent component shortages (i.e., optical chips), we believe the product upcycle will 
continue into 2027F. Meanwhile, product innovation in the optical transceiver market is 
accelerating, and future technology trends including silicon photonics (SiPh), LPO/LRO, 
and NPO/CPO primarily target higher performance, lower energy consumption and costs. 
We believe 1.6T upgrade and SiPh migration are the key drivers. We think NPO/CPO 
technologies will continue to improve. If leading CPO solution providers use bundled sales 
strategies for their CPO switch products, which could accelerate adoption rates in scale-
out network in the medium term, while we believe there are more CPO use cases in the 
scale-up network in the long term. 
Other than using silicon-based wafers are used to produce key ICs in optical transceivers, 
other critical areas where non-siIicon based wafers/materials are used include: 1) InP for 
EML and CW lasers; 2) Ge (germanium) on silicon for PD and EIC; and 3) photonics SOI 
wafer for PIC (SiPh); 4) GaAs for driver in EIC; 5) LiNbO3 for modulator in PIC. Ideally, 
the fully-integrated PIC necessitates a monolithic III–V compound Semi and silicon 
platform for efficient light coupling and large dimension III–V compound Semi materials for 
flexible device/circuit designs. Thus, we believe a monolithic InP/photonics SOI platform 
for integrated photonics is becoming a better solution. These InP crystals are located right 
on top of the buried oxide layer and feature an in-plane configuration with the silicon 
device layer, which results in a unique InP-on-insulator architecture and allows for strong 
light confinement within the epitaxial InP. 
Fig. 108: Structure of an advanced optical transceiver and key materials 
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
58

### Page 59

Fig. 109: SOI-based PIC platform 
Source: Soitec

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
59

### Page 60

Fig. 110: Different formation of CPO

Source: Journal of Microelectronics and Electronic Packaging, Nomura research

I
nP epi wafer supply and demand outlook – capacity not fully 
utilized yet, but is tightening
Due to the quickly surging demand from optical transceivers and new CPO switch 
solutions, we expect upstream material supply shortages to shift from InP epi wafers to 
InP substrates and then photonics SOI wafers. Below are our InP epi wafer 
supply/demand assumptions:
For InP epi wafer capacity expansion, we are assuming the supply will be 
partially capped by InP substrate supply and the long MOCVD equipment lead 
time which could be more than one year.
1. 
General speaking, the leading IDMs’, such as Lumentum (LITE US, Not rated) 2. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
60

### Page 61

and Coherent (COHR US, Not rated), InP epi wafer utilization rate is running 
ti
ght, but the merchant players are not yet. Thus, there is still idle capacity in 
the market. 
China-based suppliers’ capacity expansion would also have an impact on the 
supply assumption, as they usually tend to be more aggressive in terms of 
capacity expansion during the upcycle. 
3. 
InP epi wafer demand is mainly driven by EML in conventional optical 
transceiver and CW Laser in SiPh-based optical transceiver.
4. 
Some demand such as InP PD and InP PIC will be taken by Ge on silicon and 
photonics SOI wafers. 
5. 
We believe it is critical to see which merchant InP EPI wafer companies can receive some 
order outflows from leading IDM companies like Lumentum and Coherent. 
Fig. 111: InP epi wafer supply/demand trend
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 112: InP EPI wafer capacity by suppliers
Source: Nomura estimates
Fig. 113: InP EPI wafer demand
Source: Nomura estimates

I
nP substrate supply/demand outlook – the key bottleneck due 
to low yield rates and Indium export control by China, but may 
ease in 2028F at the earliest
We expect InP substrate supply would be even tighter than InP epi wafer in 2025-27F 
considering the 6” migration with some production yield loss from InP substrate to InP epi 
wafer. Our other assumptions include:
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
61

### Page 62

For InP substrate, we are assuming the supply will be partially capped by 
Ch
ina’s export control on Indium, and also the potentially long equipment 
move-in lead time. 
1. 
The production yield rate of InP laser could be less than 50%.2. 
China-based suppliers’ will gain more market share in 2028-30F as a key 
variable to global supply. 
3. 
InP substrate demand is mainly driven by EML in conventional optical 
transceiver and CW Laser in SiPh-based optical transceiver.
4. 
Some demand such as InP PD and InP PIC will be taken by Ge on silicon and 
photonics SOI wafers. 
5. 
We expect the supply shortage will persist in 2025-27F, and gradually ease in 2028F at 
the earliest. 
Fig. 114: InP substrate supply/demand trend
Source, Nomura estimates

Fig. 115: InP substrate capacity by suppliers – tight supply 
scen
ario
Source: Nomura estimates
Fig. 116: InP substrate capacity by suppliers – oversupply 
scen
ario
Source: Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
62

### Page 63

Fig. 117: InP substrate demand 
Source: Nomura estimates

P
hotonics SOI wafer supply/demand outlook – the SiPh PIC 
would be a new area demand driver; non-photonics SOI wafer 
market demand is recovering faster than expected
Photonics SOI wafer is becoming an increasing important material to build SiPh-based 
PIC, due to its scalability in most of the major foundries with lower cost per die. For 
example, under the same area size, photonics SOI wafer price is only 25% that of InP 
substrate. Thus, we assume photonics SOI wafer demand will grow along with rising SiPh 
PIC demand in optical transceivers and CPO modules.
According to our understanding, the PIC die size for a CPO module can reach 50-
100mm2, which may consume more meaningful SOI wafer from 2027F onwards. As 
a result, we expect that following the InP substrate shortage from 2H25, photonics 
SOI wafer supply could run tight start from 2027F.
As it is a niche market in terms of the volume shipments, by 2030F, global 
photonics SOI wafer demand may only contribute a very small portion of total 12” 
semi wafer demand. However, the dollar content contribution would be much 
higher, in our view, since the ASP of photonics SOI wafer is 10x higher than 12” 
that for semi wafer. 
Other than non-photonics SOI wafer, the rest of RF, FD and Power-SOI have been 
suffering from weak smartphone and automotive demand for more than one year already. 
However, we have noticed that recently, customers have been coming back to re-stock 
those non-photonics SOI wafers due to the concern that AI application will squeeze out 
the capacity for other applications. As a result, we expect the overall SOI wafer market 
demand may recover faster than our expectation in our Soitec report “The distant leader 
in 
photonics SOI” published in early May.
Fig. 118: Prices of different size and types of substrates
Source: Nomura estimates
Fig. 119: ASP range of SOI wafers
Source: Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
63

### Page 64

Fig. 120: Photonics SOI wafer supply/demand trend
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 121: Photonics SOI wafer capacity by supplier

Source: Nomura estimates
Fig. 122: Photonics SOI wafer demand breakdown by 
ap
plication
Source: Nomura estimates

12” 
semi wafer supply demand could turn more favorable 
sometime in 2027-28F
We expect there are five major drivers of 12” semi wafer demand over 2026-30F, 
including:
The regular 12” semi wafer market growing on an average at around 5% per year.•
Semi companies’ capacity expansion across leading foundries and memory makers, 
which could add another 2-3pp growth per year. This incremental growth was seen 
during the COVID period in 2020-22, when most of the semi companies added 
capacity to meet rising WFH demand.
•
Wafer-bonded NAND could add another 1-2pp growth per year, due to additional logic 
wafer that will be used.
•
The BPD process and photonics SOI demand could add another 0-1pp growth per 
year, purely driven by new technology adoption. 
•
As a result, it is possible that the 12” semi wafer demand could grow by around 10% each 
year from 2026 to 2030F. Assuming most of the leading semi wafer companies reach 
their capacity limitation by around 2028F, we expect supply-demand could turn more 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
64

### Page 65

favorable sometime in 2027-28F. 
Fig. 123: 12” semi wafer market growth catalysts

Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 124: 12” semi wafer supply demand trend

Source: Semi.org, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
65

### Page 66

Appendix – an introduction to key non-wafer
semi
conductor materials
Photoresist and photoresist auxiliary
Photoresist introduction
Photoresist is a light-sensitive polymer used for wafer photolithography in IC
manufacturing. The photolithography process is the most time-consuming step in the
whole IC manufacturing process. During the photolithography process, photoresist will be
applied on the wafer surface before the etch process, and it will be dissolved away after it

is etched. There are two purpose of the photoresist layers: 1) precise pattern formation,
and 2) protection of the substrate from chemical attack during the etch process.
Photoresist is the key material for photolithography, and in manufacturing, the quality has
a substantial impact on its performance. Photoresists are usually composed of adhesive
agents (~20%), sensitizers (~10%) and solvents (~70%). A good photoresist usually
requires high contrast, high resolution and high sensitivity, so that the circuit pattern can

be copied precisely to the wafer surface. What’s more, high purity, strong etch resistance,
dissolubility, and defined surface tension, density and viscosity are also essential for good
photoresist, due to manufacturing engineering standards.
The global photoresist market has long been dominated by companies from Japan such
as Tokyo Ohka Kogyo (TOK; 4186 JP, Neutral), and JSR (unlisted).
In terms of different reactions when exposed to UV light, there are two types of

semiconductor photoresist: positive photoresist and negative photoresist (
Fig. 126 ).
With positive photoresist, UV light strategically hits the material in the areas that need
to be removed. These exposed areas are then washed away by photoresist developer
solvent, leaving the underlying material. The areas of the photoresist that aren’t
exposed to UV light are left insoluble to the photoresist developer. As a result, there’s
an identical copy of the pattern exposed as a mask on the wafer.

•
Negative photoresist is just the opposite of positive photoresist. The negative
photoresist become extremely difficult to dissolve. The UV exposed negative resist
will remain on the wafer while the photoresist developer solution works to remove the
areas that are unexposed. This leaves a mask that consists of an inverse pattern of
the original, which is applied on the wafer.
•
Both positive and negative photoresist are used in the semiconductor manufacturing

industry, but more suppliers opt for positive photoresist due to higher-resolution
capabilities.
Photoresist auxiliary introduction
BARC (Bottom Anti-Reflective Coatings; Film)•
BARC is placed beneath the photoresist layer to prevent light reflection from the
substrate. This helps to suppress standing waves caused by interference within the
resist layer during exposure, which can lead to variations in sidewall profiles and
critical dimensions. As a result, BARC improves the accuracy of lithography.

EBR (Edge Bead Removal)•
EBR is a process that removes excess photoresist from the edge of a coated
substrate, preventing defects that may arise due to non-uniformity.  EBR material are
the specialized solvent mixtures designed to dissolve and remove excess photoresist.
Developer•
Developer is a chemical agent used in photolithography to dissolve and remove
soluble portions of photoresist, revealing the underlying circuit pattern.
Rinse•
Rinse material are specialized chemical solutions, often containing surfactants or, in

the case of Dry Development Rinse (DDR), functional polymers, used after
photoresist development in lithography to prevent pattern collapse.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
66

### Page 67

Photoresist removal •
P
hotoresist removal involves stripping, ashing, or cleaning photoresist polymers after 
lithography using chemical solvents (Acetone, NMP, DMSO), plasma ashing, or wet 
cleaning (SPM).
Fig. 125: Photoresist and lithography process
Source: Nikon, Nomura research

Fig. 126: Photoresisting processes
Source: Nomura research    
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
67

### Page 68

Fig. 127: Technology difficulties of photoresist and auxiliaries
Source: Nomura research

P
hotomask
A photomask is a quartz or glass substrate coated with an opaque film into which is 
etched the design of the device being manufactured. In general, photomask has various 
markets and applications, such as electronic devices, discrete components, light 
receiving/emitting elements, display devices, MEMS (micro electro mechanical system), 
and inkjet printers. The manufacturing process normally includes five steps (
Fig. 128 ):
Photomask blanks: an absorber layer with a thickness of tens of nanometers is 
formed by depositing a substance such as chrome on the quartz substrate. The 
quartz substrate in this state is called a photomask blank.
1. 
Exposure: Photoresist (photosensitive resin) is uniformly coated over the surface of a 
photomask blank. Then an LSI circuit pattern is drawn by using an electron beam or a 
laser beam.
2. 
Development: The portions of resist exposed to the electron beam are removed 
through the development process (positive tone resist). Depending on the type of 
resist, there are cases in which non-exposed portions of resist are removed (negative 
tone resist).
3. 
Etching: The portions from which resist was removed by the development process 
and the absorber layer is exposed are then etched through a chemical reaction by dry 
etching.
4. 
Resist removal: A photomask is completed upon removal of the resist and cleaned, 
and is finally shipped after passing several strict inspection processes.
5. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
68

### Page 69

Fig. 128: Manufacturing process of photomasks
Source: TOPPAN, Nomura research

P
hotomask technology changes constantly; upstream materials and equipment are 
dominated by Japan, US, and EU
Photomask technology changes constantly. An independent photomask company needs 
to understand IC design (fabless) companies’ requirements, as well as gain knowledge on 
the needs of foundries/IDM’s manufacturing processes. Due to the lack of unified 
st
andards in designing processes and different models of equipment from foundries/IDMs, 
photomasks firms’ competitive advantages lie in R&D and product compatibility with 
upstream and downstream firms.
Binary masks (130nm and above): It has a relatively simple structure. It is a 
photomask blank covered with patterned layer of opaque material. Its transmission 
characteristics are either transparent or non-transparent. Binary mask is used for 
building a pattern in which line width is larger than the exposure wavelength.
•
Phase Shift Mask (PSM) (mature node): PSM has achieved improved wafer 
printability with higher resolution and increased DOF (Depth of Focus), by controlling 
the phase shift and the transmission rate. This is a standard technology for 
lithography, in which line width is smaller than the exposure wavelength.
•
EUV masks (7nm and below): Unlike conventional DUV, EUV lithography requires 
reflective optics for wafer exposure systems and for masks, as EUV technology 
cannot focus light via conventional lens optics (
Fig. 129 ).
•
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
69

### Page 70

Fig. 129: Photomask classification
Source: TOPPAN, Nomura research

P
hotomask equipment suppliers have a higher degree of concentration then those of 
foundries. The photomask equipment market is mainly dominated by companies from 
Japan, the US, and Germany (Fig. 130 ). In addition to equipment, photomask raw 
materials are dominated by companies from Japan and Korea. In order to lower raw 
materials costs and have better control on product quality and supply chain, leading 
photomask companies have gradually extended their reach to the upstream raw materials 
segment (
Fig. 131 ). 
Fig. 130: Photomask equipment provider
Category Process Major equipment supplier
Coating Tokyo Electron (8035 JP), Applied Materials (AMAT US)
Heating SUSS MicroTec (SMHN DE)
Etching Applied Materials (AMAT US)
Writing Laser direct writing: Applied Materials (AMAT US), Mycronic (MYCR ST)
Electron beam direct writing: Nuflare (Unlisted), IMS (Unlisted), JEOL (6951 JP)
Critical Dimension (CD) measurement Holon (Unlisted), Advantest (6857 JP)
Overlay (OVL) measurement KLA (KLAC US), Zeiss (Unlisted)
Cleaning SUSS MicroTec (SMHN DE)
Defect detection KLA (KLAC US), Nuflare (Unlisted), Lasertec (6920 JP)
Defect repair Hitachi (6501 JP), V Technology (7717 JP), High-end electron beam repair is dominated by Zeiss (Unlisted)
Verification Zeiss (Unlisted)
Front-End
Back-End
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Fig. 131: Photomask raw materials 
Raw materials/Companies HOYA LG-IT DNP PKL TOPPAN SKE Qingyi Newway
Substrate ✓ ✓ x x x x x x
Chrome ✓ ✓ x x x x x x
Photoresist coating ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓ ✓
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
70

### Page 71

Electric gas
T
he process of manufacturing semiconductors requires using different gases at different
phases. While common gases such as nitrogen, hydrogen, argon, and helium can be
used in their pure form, some processes may require a specialized mixture. Below we list
the primary processes of semiconductor manufacturing, and the principal gases used:
Deposition: is the process that creates the materials found inside electronic devices:
the conductors, semiconductors, and insulators. Typically, substrate is heated to an

elevated temperature favorable to the desired reaction in a two gas-phase chamber,
which results in a thin-film product produced directly on top of the preceding layer.
The reaction can be further activated by using an argon or helium plasma. Various
different gases are used in deposition steps, and these are chosen as the precursors
to the desired thin-film product. Some gases such as ammonia and silane have been
used since the beginning of semiconductor fabrication. Others have come into use

later, and some have been developed specifically for use in electronics.
•
Photolithography: is the process that forms the shapes of the devices and is key to
the miniaturization of microchips. The lithography tool – called a scanner – acts like a
slide projector: it takes the light from a source to transfer an image from a master
pattern, etched in a piece of glass, onto the substrate that is covered with light-
sensitive chemical films. This image is the pattern that will form the minute circuitry of

the microchip. Subsequent wet chemical steps are used to develop the pattern and
remove either the exposed or non-exposed portion of the chemical film.
•
Etching: is the process used to selectively remove materials and usually follows
photolithography as a way to permanently realize the pattern and shape made in the
lithographic process. Etchant gases are activated in argon plasmas above the
substrate and then react with one material at the surface preferentially to another. The

reaction products are also gases and are removed through a vacuum system.
•
Doping: is the process that helps to modify the conductivity of semiconducting
materials. By adding atoms of these materials into a previously deposited
semiconductor material, the circuit engineer can determine the exact conditions at
which the semiconductor layer will conduct electrons. The doping atoms can be
added either by allowing gases to react on the surface and diffuse into a heated

substrate, or by plasma activation, in which an electric field is used to accelerate them
into the substrate.
•
Annealing: is another process used to modify the composition of an existing thin film.
Most often conducted at elevated pressure and temperature, oxygen or hydrogen is
reacted with the existing layer to create a new oxide or hydride layer on the surface.
In other applications, the substrate with added thin film layers is heated and cooled so

that the top-most thin film can form a crystaline phase.
•
Chamber cleaning: is an important process to keep chambers in working conditions.
Excess chemical reactants and products deposit not only on the substrate, but also
on the chamber walls and other equipment inside the process chamber. Because of
the sensitive dimensions of electronic devices, even small particles produced from
these excess materials can ruin devices under fabrication. In between process steps,

halide gases are plasma are activated to react with and remove the excess materials,
like an etching step for the entire inside of the process chamber.
•
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
71

### Page 72

Fig. 132: Semiconductor manufacturing processes and gases used
Source: Linde, Nomura research

Fig. 133: Processes and gases used
Processes Deposition Lithography Etching Doping Annealing Chamber
cleaning
Nitrogen gases Laser gases Fluorocarbons Hydrides Oxygen Nitrogen trifluoride
Silicon gases Carbon dioxide Sulfur hexafluoride Hydrogen Other fluoride gases
Oxygen Hydrogen Halides Argon Chloride gases
Tungsten hexafluoride Oxygen Fluorine
Germane
Gases used
Source: Linde, Nomura research

B
y category, gases in electronics manufacturing can also be divided into two groups for 
the purpose of supply:
Bulk gases – nitrogen, oxygen, argon, helium, hydrogen, and carbon dioxide – are six gases 
that are both used in large amounts and commonly sourced from industrial supply chains. 
These are normally stored in tanks or containers to ensure adequate supply.
•
Electronic special gases are all other gases and number over a hundred in pure and 
specialty mixtures. These can be supplied in sizes from small lecture bottles to containers, 
depending upon process demand. All of these require additional levels of purification and 
quality control well beyond that of other industrial processes.
•
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
72

### Page 73

Fig. 134: Gases in various technology sectors
Sector Materials
Semiconductor
Bulk gases: argon, carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen
Most common specialty gases: nitrogen trifluoride, tungsten hexafluoride, hydrogen chloride, ammonia, disilane, germane, 
high purity carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide
Display
Bulk gases: argon, carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen
Electronic special gases: cleaning (fluorine and nitrogen trifluoride), deposition (ammonia, nitrous oxide, and silane), doping 
(diborane and phosphine), etching (boron trichloride, chlorine, octafluorocylobutane, pentafluoroethane, sulfur hexafluoride, 
and tetrafluoromethane), laser (fluorine/hydrogen, hydrogen chloride/hydrogen/neon, krypton, neon, and xenon)
Solar
Bulk gases: argon, helium, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen
Electronic special gases: silane, ammonia, fluorine (on-site generation), sulphur hexafluoride, chlorine, carbon tetrafluoride, 
arsine and phosphine mixtures
Source: Nomura research

Ch
emical Mechanical Planarization (CMP) slurry, pad and 
conditioner
CMP slurry introduction
Chemical Mechanical Planarization, or CMP, is a polishing process that utilizes a 
chemical slurry formulation and mechanical polishing process to remove unwanted 
conductive or dielectric materials on the silicon wafer, achieving a near-perfect flat and 
smooth surface upon which layers of integrated circuitry are built (
Fig. 135 ). CMP slurry 
consists of abrasive particles and chemical components such as pH adjuster, dispersant, 
polymeric additives, oxidizer, and a passivation agent, depending on polishing purpose, to 
provide proper surface modification of material. According to different manufacturing and 
technology requirements, each wafer will go through multiple or dozens of CMP 
processes. The global CMP industry has long been dominated by companies from the US 
and Japan. 
Abrasive particles in the polishing slurry are essential for polishing, and the size of the 
particles used in polishing has been shown to have an effect on the rate at which material 
is removed from the surface. Common materials of abrasive particles in CMP slurries are 
silicon dioxide, tungsten, and copper. Tungsten CMP is generally used for the memory IC 
process, while copper CMP is mostly applied in the 130nm and more advanced nodes of 
logic IC. In addition, as IC manufacturing processes evolve and become more 
complicated, we expect demand for CMP materials will accelerate. For instance, 65nm 
node technology needs 15 CMP processes, while 14nm requires 28 CMP processes. The 
1.6nm IC manufacturing technology needs 70 CMP processes (
Fig. 138 ).
The basis chemical compositions of CMP slurry are (Fig. 136 ):
Abrasive particle: polishes the surface of a wafer and removes unwanted substances 
and metals.
•
Oxidizer: a chemical substance that removes an electron from a metal surface.•
Chelating agent: forms complexes with metal ions.•
Corrosion inhibitor: provides metal corrosion protection.•
Surfactant: changes the properties of the water surface.•
pH adjustor: controls the pH of the slurry.•
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
73

### Page 74

Fig. 135: CMP process
Source: Fujifilm, IntechOpen, Nomura research

Fig. 136: Composition of CMP slurry
Composition Description
Abrasive particles
Abrasive particles are essential for polishing the metal surface. For polishing silicon and silicon-based materials, colloidal 
silica (silica gel) or other metal oxides such as ceria are typically used. Abrasive particles' size, concentration, and interaction 
with other chemical materials all influence the polishing performance.
Oxidizer The oxidizer is a substance that has the ability to oxidize other substances, facilitating mechanical polishing on the wafer.
Chelating agent The chelating agent forms complexes with metal ions. A combination of the oxidizer and chelating agent would help to obtain 
a better passivation layer and high dissolution rate of the metal.
Corrosion inhibitor
The corrosion inhibitor is a chemical compound that decreases the corrosion rate of a material which comes into contact with 
the fluid. The CMP process can obtain perfect surface planarity, only if the concave surface of the wafer is properly protected 
from corrosion by the corrosion inhibitor.
Surfactant Surfactants are compounds that lower the surface tension, or interfacial tension, between two liquids. In the CMP process, 
surfactants can enhance the cleaning process.
pH adjustor The pH adjustor is to adjust the pH of CMP slurry so as to improve the removal rate of the CMP slurry.
Source: Nomura research

CMP
 pad introduction
CMP pad is an innovative pad used in the Chemical Mechanical Polishing (CMP) process 
for advanced node semiconductor manufacturing, especially after the PVD (physical 
vapor deposition) process. A CMP pad is made of a loose and porous structure that 
comprises a matrix consisting of fibers. The polishing pad surface has voids in which 
polishing slurry flows during chemical mechanical polishing of substrates, and in which 
debris formed during the chemical-mechanical polishing of substrates is temporarily 
stored for subsequent rinsing away. CMP pads help in the application of CMP slurries 
evenly on wafers and improve the stability and efficiency of planarization. CMP pads are 
consumable materials, with normal usage life of 45-75 hours. Memory chips are the 
largest downstream applications of CMP pads.
CMP conditioner (diamond disk) introduction
During the CMP process, the pad surface becomes smooth and glazed due to mechanical 
compression from wafer contact and the particle and chemical buildup from slurry 
residues, reducing pad roughness and slurry flow, leading to lower removal rates and the 
risk of non-uniform polishing. Therefore, CMP pads need to be reconditioned continuously 
to extend their useful life. The pad conditioner (or diamond disk) would mechanically 
scrape the pad surface to reopen pores for slurry distribution, regenerate micro-asperities 
to restore surface texture, and remove glazed material.
We estimate the semiconductor CMP pad conditioner market size was ~USD400mn in 
2025 at moderate supplier concentration with 4-6 significant players controlling a 
combined 70-80% market share, including Asahi Diamond (6140 JP, Not rated) supplying 
Japan domestic customers, TSMC, 3M (MMM US, Not rated) across major foundries and 
memory makers, and SAESOL Diamond (unlisted) for Samsung and Hynix.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
74

### Page 75

Fig. 137: CMP pad and conditioner in CMP process
Source: Sensofar Metrology, Nomura research

Fig. 138: CMP processes vs IC technology nodes
Source: SEMI, Nomura research

T
arget
Sputtering is a technology used to form a thin film on a silicon wafer, glass, or other 
substrate. Within a vacuum state maintained in a sputtering machine, a sputtering target 
is bombarded with argon ions. This causes atoms or molecules to be emitted from the 
sputtering target. The atoms or molecules are deposited and form a thin film on the 
substrate. Sputtering targets are materials from which thin films are grown by the 
sputtering method, and the targets are fabricated by processing metals or ceramics (
Fig. 
139 ).
Fig. 139: Sputtering process
Source: INF Wiki, Nomura research
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
75

### Page 76

I
n terms of process, the sputtering target is used for the fabrication of the barrier layer and 
the packaging metal wiring layer.
In the wafer manufacturing process, the target material is mainly used to make the 
wafer conductive layer, barrier layer, and metal grid.
•
In the chip packaging process, the sputtering target material is used to generate the 
metal layer under the bump, wiring layer, and other metal materials.
•
The amount of target materials used in wafer manufacturing and chip packaging is small; 
according to SEMI statistics, the cost of target materials in wafer manufacturing and 
packaging process accounts for about 3% of Semi material market. However, the quality 
of sputtering target materials directly affects the uniformity and performance of the 
conductive and barrier layers, and further affects chip transmission speed and stability, so 
sputtering target materials are considered by many to be the core raw materials for 
semiconductor production.
Sputtering target in semiconductor: increasing demand for aluminum, titanium, 
tantalum, and cooper 
By chemical composition, sputtering target materials can be divided into metal target 
materials (pure metal aluminum, titanium, copper, and tantalum), alloy target materials 
(nickel-chrome alloy and nickel-cobalt alloy) and ceramic compound target materials 
(oxides, silicides, carbides and sulfide). By application, they can be divided into 
semiconductor chip target materials, planar display target materials, solar cell target 
materials, information storage target materials, tool modified target materials, electronic 
device target materials, and other target materials.
In semiconductor wafer manufacturing, the manufacturing process of 200mm (8-inch) and 
below wafers is usually mainly made of aluminum, and the target materials used are 
mainly made of aluminum and titanium. However, the manufacture of 300mm (12-inch) 
wafer mostly uses advanced copper interconnection technology and mainly uses copper 
and tantalum target materials. Overall, as the use of chips becomes more and more 
extensive and chip demand increases, we expect demand for aluminum, titanium, 
tantalum and copper, the four mainstream thin-film metals in the industry, to also 
increase. There is currently no alternative to these four thin-film materials, either 
technically or economically, so we do not believe they are at risk of being replaced. 
Fig. 
140  shows the main types, uses, and performance requirements for sputtering targets in 
the electronics field.
Fig. 140: Types and applications of sputtering targets in the electronic industry
Type Application Main variety Performance requirements
Semiconductor Used to prepare integrated circuit core 
materials
W, WTi, Ti, Ta, Al alloy with purity 4N or 
5N
Highest technical requirements; ultra-
high purity metal; high precision size; 
high integration
Flat display
Sputtering technology guarantees 
uniformity of film produced, increases 
productivity and reduces costs
Nb, Si, Cr, Mo, MoNb, Al alloy , Cu and 
Cu alloy target
High technical requirements; high purity 
materials; large material area; high 
uniformity
Decoration
Used for coating the surface of the 
product for beautification, wear 
resistance and corrosion resistance
Cr, Ti, Zr, Ni, W, TiAl, CrSi, CrTi, CrAlZr 
target
General technical requirements; mainly 
used for decoration, energy-saving, etc
Tool
Enhance the surface of tools and molds, 
improve the life and the quality of the 
parts manufactured
TiAl, CrAl, Cr, Ti, TiC, Al2O3 target High-performance requirements; 
extended service life
Solar
Sputter coating technology for the 
production of fourth-generation thin-film 
solar cells
ZnOAl, ZnO, ZnAl, Mo, CdS, CIGS target High technical requirements; large 
application range
Electron device Thin-film resistors, film capacitors NiCr, NiCrSi, CrSi, Ta, NiCrAl target Requires small size, good stability, and 
low-temperature coefficient of resistance
Information storage Used to make storage Cr alloy, Co alloy, CoFe alloy, Ni alloy High storage density; high transmission 
speed
Source: Stanford Advanced Materials, Nomura research

Hi
gh entry barriers: dominated by Japan and US firms
Sputtering coating technology originated from the US and Japan, and the required 
sputtering target products have high-performance requirements, so research and 
production have mainly been concentrated in a few companies in those countries. The 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
76

### Page 77

application fields of sputtering target mainly focus on the semiconductor, flat-panel display
(including
touch screens) and solar cell industries.
Target manufacturing has high entry barriers, which are mainly reflected in technology,
clients verification, and raw materials supply.
Manufacturing: target manufacturing has high requirements in terms of companies’
R&D and manufacturing processes.
•
Verification cycles: clients normally have long verification cycles and various

verification requirements. In general, it takes 2-3 years for targets to reach mass
shipment. Moreover, newcomers need to continuously improve their product quality
and manufacturing capabilities to win bidding or increase their supply share.
•
Raw materials: along the supply chain, raw materials providers normally have strong
bargaining positions. For a long time, Chinese target manufacturers have mainly
obtained high-purity metals by importing them from overseas.

•
Due to high entry barriers and large capex requirements, there are limited players in the
high-purity sputtering target industry, which is mainly dominated by Japan and US firms.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
77

### Page 78

EQUITY: TECHNOLOGY
Ingentec Corporation   4768.TWO 4768 TT
Global Markets Research
21 May 2026
Glass core substrate potential yet to be fully unlocked
Take-off of glass core substrate business could be seen 
on top of improving specialty gas business
Action: Initiate coverage at Buy with TP of TWD960
We initiate coverage of Ingentec, a Taiwanese specialty gas supplier and emerging TGV (Through-
Glass Via) glass core substrate manufacturer, with a Buy rating. In our view, Ingentec is positioned 
at the intersection of two powerful secular trends: 1) the accelerating demand for etch gases driven 
by memory capacity expansion, particularly 3D NAND; and 2) emerging glass core substrate 
demand driven by Broadcom from 2027F. We estimate 2026F will be a year of recovery for its core 
specialty gas business, and glass core substrate business could emerge from 2027F onwards. 
Thus, we assume there could be more meaningful sales and earnings growth in late 2027F. Our 
target price of TWD960 is based on 60x 2028F EPS TWD16, in the mid-range of the company’s 
45-75x P/E over 2021-23, when Ingentec's specialty gas business was strong, driven by tight supply 
due to the Ukraine-Russia war. We expect Ingentec’s sales to see a 129% CAGR in 2026-28F. The 
stock is trading at 31.7x 2028F PE. Downside risks include: 1) a weakening Semi CAPEX cycle; 2) 
losing market share to competitors; 3) commercialization delay in next-generation products; and 4) 
the adoption of glass core substrate is slower than expected.
Specialty gas business: likely driven by memory capacity and the leading foundry’s 
capacity expansion
Ingentec’s core business is specialty gas such as C4F6 and C4F8 mainly used in Semi etching 
process. Although Ingentec’s largest customer is a leading foundry in Taiwan, the more specialty 
gas usage will be mainly driven by memory customers in Japan and Korea. 3D NAND is 
particularly the important driver because it has more etching processes over DRAM and 
advanced logic chips. As a result, if memory companies start to expand capacity in the coming 
quarters, Ingentec’s specialty gas business should see a profound recovery from current levels, 
as memory companies are mostly not expanding capacity until later-2026F. 
Glass core substrate business: the expert of TGV technology
Ingentec has been developing substrate-related materials and processes for microLED since 
2017, and has leveraged related studies and patents onto glass core substrate. Ingentec’s 
patented TGV technology, LADY (Laser Arrow Decomposition Yield), applies a fine chemical 
distillation technology to produce ultra- high purity specialty gases, which are introduced into 
advanced processes such as dry etching, film removal, and precision glass drilling. Whether 
Broadcom adopts glass core substrate o not in 2027-29F is worth monitoring, in our view.

### Page 79

Key data on Ingentec Corporation

Performance
(%) 1M 3M 12M
Absolute (TWD) -11.1 11.0 305.4 M cap (USDmn) 648.0
Absolute (USD) -10.8 10.5 287.3 Free float (%) 68.9
Rel to Taiwan 
T
AIEX Index
-23.2 -11.6 215.9 3-mth ADT (USDmn) 25.5
Income statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec FY24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Revenue 1,017 1,229 1,788 2,531 9,337
Cost of goods sold -604 -927 -1,473 -1,752 -6,360
Gross profit 413 303 315 779 2,977
SG&A -230 -264 -336 -460 -1,420
Employee share 
expense
Operating profit 182 39 -20 320 1,558
EBITDA 267 149 96 441 1,685
Depreciation -83 -109 -114 -120 -126
Amortisation -1 -2 -2 -2 -2
EBIT 182 39 -20 320 1,558
Net interest expense -4 -20 -29 -29 -29
Associates & JCEs
Other income 13 1 12 12 12
Earnings before tax 191 20 -37 303 1,541
Income tax -37 -6 -6 -76 -385
Net profit after tax 155 13 -43 227 1,156
Minority interests -23 5 19 19 19
Other items
Preferred dividends
Normalised NPAT 131 19 -24 246 1,174
Extraordinary items
Reported NPAT 131 19 -24 246 1,174
Dividends -151 -181 -181 -229 -276
Transfer to reserves -20 -162 -205 17 898
Valuations and ratios
Reported P/E (x) 148.4 1,094.4 – 105.3 26.6
Normalised P/E (x) 148.4 1,094.4 -836.9 105.3 26.6
FD normalised P/E (x) 148.4 1,094.4 – 105.3 26.6
Dividend yield (%) 0.8 0.9 0.9 0.7 0.9
Price/cashflow (x) 78.1 83.8 258.9 99.7 49.0
Price/book (x) 10.4 11.9 13.6 2.2 2.1
EV/EBITDA (x) 78.5 143.5 230.1 27.4 13.2
EV/EBIT (x) 114.9 552.6 – 37.8 14.3
Gross margin (%) 40.6 24.6 17.6 30.8 31.9
EBITDA margin (%) 26.2 12.1 5.4 17.4 18.1
EBIT margin (%) 17.9 3.2 -1.1 12.6 16.7
Net margin (%) 12.9 1.5 -1.4 9.7 12.6
Effective tax rate (%) 19.2 32.6 – 25.0 25.0
Dividend payout (%) 114.9 968.5 – 93.1 23.5
ROE (%) 7.9 1.0 -1.5 3.2 8.1
ROA (pretax %) 7.9 1.3 -0.6 6.2 11.9
Growth (%)
Revenue 24.7 20.9 45.5 41.6 268.9
EBITDA 22.8 -44.1 -35.8 360.7 282.0
Normalised EPS 15.4 -86.4 -230.8 – 296.4
Normalised FDEPS 15.4 -86.4 -230.8 – 296.4
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Cashflow statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
EBITDA 267 149 96 441 1,685
Change in working capital 10 162 6 -89 -647
Other operating cashflow -28 -67 -23 -93 -402
Cashflow from operations 249 244 79 260 636
Capital expenditure -580 -563 -536 -2,579 -10,621
Free cashflow -331 -319 -458 -2,320 -9,985
Reduction in investments 49 16 19 19 19
Net acquisitions
Dec in other LT assets 103 -7 -7 -7
Inc in other LT liabilities -3 0 0 0
Adjustments -6 -106 7 7 7
CF after investing acts -288 -309 -438 -2,301 -9,966
Cash dividends -151 -181 -181 -229 -276
Equity issue 11 1 0 12,500 0
Debt issue 394 762 300 300 0
Convertible debt issue
Others -4 -7 -9 -9 -9
CF from financial acts 250 575 110 12,563 -285
Net cashflow -38 266 -328 10,262 -10,251
Beginning cash 321 283 549 221 10,482
Ending cash 283 549 221 10,482 231
Ending net debt 501 965 1,593 -8,368 1,883
Balance sheet (TWDmn)
As at 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Cash & equivalents 283 549 221 10,482 231
Marketable securities 15 1 1 1 1
Accounts receivable 159 241 269 381 1,407
Inventories 195 351 484 576 2,091
Other current assets 58 76 76 76 76
Total current assets 710 1,218 1,051 11,516 3,806
LT investments 11 6 6 6 6
Fixed assets 1, 807 2,392 2,815 5,274 15,770
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Other LT assets 295 192 198 205 212
Total assets 2, 823 3,808 4,070 17,002 19,793
Short-term debt 296 467 467 467 467
Accounts payable 54 438 605 720 2,614
Other current liabilities 108 142 142 142 142
Total current liabilities 457 1,046 1,213 1,328 3,222
Long-term debt 482 1,047 1,347 1,647 1,647
Convertible debt
Other LT liabilities 6 3 3 3 3
Total liabilities 946 2,096 2,564 2,979 4,872
Minority interest
Preferred stock
Common stock 452 475 475 725 725
Retained earnings 193 89 -116 -99 799
Proposed dividends
Other equity and reserves 1, 232 1,147 1,147 13,397 13,397
Total shareholders' equity 1, 877 1,711 1,506 14,023 14,921
Total equity & liabilities 2, 823 3,808 4,070 17,002 19,793
Liquidity (x)
Current ratio 1. 55 1.16 0.87 8.67 1.18
Interest cover 43. 4 1.9 -0.7 10.9 53.1
Leverage
Net debt/EBITDA (x) 1. 88 6.47 16.64 net cash 1.12
Net debt/equity (%) 26. 7 56.4 105.8 net cash 12.6
Per share
Reported EPS (TWD) 2. 90 39.34c -51.44c 4.09 16.20
Norm EPS (TWD) 2. 90 39.34c -51.44c 4.09 16.20
FD norm EPS (TWD) 2. 90 39.34c -51.44c 4.09 16.20
BVPS (TWD) 41. 50 36.04 31.72 193.45 205.84
DPS (TWD) 3. 33 3.81 3.81 3.15 3.81
Activity (days)
Days receivable 57. 0 59.4 52.1 46.9 35.1
Days inventory 118. 0 107.6 103.5 110.4 76.7
Days payable 32. 5 96.8 129.2 138.0 95.9
Cash cycle 142. 5 70.2 26.4 19.3 15.9
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
79

### Page 80

Company profile
Ingentec Corporation, together with its subsidiaries, engages in manufacturing and sales of precision chemicals for various optoelectronic and
semiconduct
or industry. The company offers fine chemical distillation technology, such as specialty gas; vapor etching and decomposition
technology, comprising dry etching foundry services; intrinsic magnetization filmy thermal conductivity technology, which include copper magnetic
wafer, top face emitting pixel package, CMuLED, power red chips, and TransVivi Pixel.

Valuation Methodology
Our TP of TWD960 is based on 60x 2028F EPS TWD16, which is at the mid-range of 45x-75x PE in 2021-2023, when Ingentec's core specialty gas
business
was strong driven by tight supply due to Ukraine and Russia war. The bench market index is TAIEX.
Risks that may impede the achievement of the target price
Downside risks include: 1) the weaknening Semi CAPEX cycle; 2) losing market share to competitors; 3) commercialization delay in next-generation

product
s; 4) the adoption of glass core substrate is slower than expected.
ESG
Ingentec Corporation integrates environmental stewardship, social responsibility, and corporate governance as core operating principles, with a
st
ated focus on carbon and greenhouse gas reduction, renewable energy adoption, and zero-emission factory design as part of its long-term
sustainable development strategy.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
80

### Page 81

Electric specialty gas introduction
T
he process of manufacturing semiconductors requires using different gases at different
phases. While common gases such as nitrogen, hydrogen, argon, and helium can be
used in their pure form, some processes may require a specialized mixture. Below, we list
the primary processes of semiconductor manufacturing and the principal gases used:
Deposition: is the process that creates the materials found inside electronic devices:

the conductors, semiconductors, and insulators. Typically, a substrate is heated in the
gas phase chamber to an elevated temperature favorable to the desired reaction,
which results in a thin film product produced directly on top of the preceding layer.
The reaction can be further activated by using an argon or helium plasma. Various
different gases are used in deposition steps, and these are chosen as the precursors
to the desired thin-film product. Some gases, such as ammonia and silane, have been

used since the beginning of semiconductor fabrication. Others have come into use
later, and some have been developed specifically for use in electronics.
•
Photolithography: is the process that forms the shapes of the devices and is key to
the miniaturization of microchips. A lithography tool – called a scanner – acts like a
slide projector: it takes the light from a source to transfer an image from a master
pattern, etched in a piece of glass, onto the substrate that is covered with light-

sensitive chemical film. This image is the pattern that will form the minute circuitry of
the microchip. Subsequent wet chemical steps are used to develop the pattern and
remove either the exposed or non-exposed portion of the chemical film.
•
Etching: is the process used to selectively remove materials and usually follows
photolithography as the way to permanently realize the pattern and shape made in
the lithographic process. Etchant gases are activated in argon plasmas above the

substrate and then react with one material at the surface preferentially to another. The
reaction products are also gases and are removed through the vacuum system.
•
Doping: is the process that helps to modify the conductivity of semiconducting
materials. By adding atoms of these materials into a previously deposited
semiconductor material, the circuit engineer can determine the exact conditions at
which the semiconductor layer will conduct electrons. The doping atoms can be

added either by allowing gases to react on the surface and diffuse into a heated
substrate or by plasma activation where an electric field is used to accelerate them
into the substrate.
•
Annealing: is another process used to modify the composition of an existing thin film.
Most often conducted at elevated pressure and temperature, oxygen or hydrogen is
reacted with the existing layer to create a new oxide or hydride layer on the surface.
In other applications, the substrate with added thin film layers is heated and cooled so

that the top-most thin film can form a crystalline phase.
•
Chamber cleaning: is an important process to keep chambers in working condition.
Excess chemical reactants and products deposit not only on the substrate, but also
on the chamber walls and other equipment inside the process chamber. Because of
the sensitive dimensions of electronic devices, even small particles produced from
these excess materials can ruin devices under fabrication. In between process steps,

halide gases are plasma activated to react with and remove the excess materials, like
an etching step for the entire inside of the process chamber.
•
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
81

### Page 82

Fig. 141: Semiconductor manufacturing processes and gases used
Source: Linde, Nomura research

Fig. 142: Processes and gases used
Processes Deposition Lithography Etching Doping Annealing Chamber
cleaning
Nitrogen gases Laser gases Fluorocarbons Hydrides Oxygen Nitrogen trifluoride
Silicon gases Carbon dioxide Sulfur hexafluoride Hydrogen Other fluoride gases
Oxygen Hydrogen Halides Argon Chloride gases
Tungsten hexafluoride Oxygen Fluorine
Germane
Gases used
Source: Linde, Nomura research

B
y category, gases in electronics manufacturing can also be divided into two groups for 
purposes of supply:
Bulk gases – nitrogen, oxygen, argon, helium, hydrogen, and carbon dioxide – are six 
gases that are both used in large amounts and commonly sourced from industrial 
supply chains. These are normally stored in tanks or containers to ensure adequate 
supply.
•
Electronic special gases are all other gases and number over a hundred in pure and 
specialty mixtures. These can be supplied in sizes from small lecture bottles to 
containers, depending upon the process demand. All of these require additional levels 
of purification and quality control well beyond that of other industrial processes.
•
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
82

### Page 83

Fig. 143: Gases in various technology sectors
Sector Materials
Semiconductor
Bulk gases: argon, carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen
Most common specialty gases: nitrogen trifluoride, tungsten hexafluoride, hydrogen chloride, ammonia, disilane, germane, 
high purity carbon dioxide, nitrous oxide
Display
Bulk gases: argon, carbon dioxide, helium, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen
Electronic special gases: cleaning (fluorine and nitrogen trifluoride), deposition (ammonia, nitrous oxide, and silane), doping 
(diborane and phosphine), etching (boron trichloride, chlorine, octafluorocylobutane, pentafluoroethane, sulfur hexafluoride, 
and tetrafluoromethane), laser (fluorine/hydrogen, hydrogen chloride/hydrogen/neon, krypton, neon, and xenon)
Solar
Bulk gases: argon, helium, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen
Electronic special gases: silane, ammonia, fluorine (on-site generation), sulphur hexafluoride, chlorine, carbon tetrafluoride, 
arsine and phosphine mixtures
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
83

### Page 84

Glass core substrate demand could emerge
fro
m 2027F
Glass core substrates and interposers are being pursued intensively by leading device
makers, materials suppliers, and equipment vendors for advanced packaging
applications. Intel (INTC US, NR) has publicly demonstrated its glass core substrates for
next-generation advanced packaging, positioning the work as foundational research for
the latter part of this decade rather than imminent high‑volume manufacturing, which

helps frame expectations for the technology's maturity today. In parallel, Absolics
(unlisted), an affiliate of SKC (unlisted), has secured preliminary US CHIPS Act support to
build a glass‑substrate facility in Georgia, signaling real capital formation while still
implying a multi‑year ramp-up period before meaningful production validation. Materials
suppliers such as AGC (5201 JP, Buy), Corning (GLW US, NR) and Schott (unlitsed) are
aligning portfolios and programs around low‑coefficient‑of‑thermal‑expansion (CTE) glass

and packaging‑grade formats, indicating upstream readiness to support trials and early
adoption phases.
For AI and high‑performance computing (HPC), package footprints, signal counts, and
power delivery demands stress organic laminates on warpage, via pitch, and dielectric
loss, whereas glass offers the following advantages including:
Flatness and less warpage1.
Better heat dissipation2.
Low loss favorable to high‑speed signaling3.
Large‑format integration.4.

The prudent view is that glass interposers and glass core substrates are being actively
pursued by credible players, but success remains to be earned in manufacturing and
economics.
Through-Glass Vias (TGV): the critical technology of glass
core substrate/interposer
Through‑glass vias (TGV) underpins vertical power and signal paths in glass, typically
formed by processes such as laser‑assisted drilling and etch, then metallized by full
copper fill or sidewall plating with dielectric infill, each bringing distinct stress, planarity,

and reliability trade‑offs.
High‑volume viability depends on repeatable control of via geometry, seed coverage in
reentrant sections, void‑free metal deposition, chemical‑mechanical planarization
budgets, and crack suppression during thermal cycling in thin panels, together with high‑
speed, 100% in‑line inspection capable of covering panels that can contain over a million
vias to prevent undetected defects from escaping into downstream steps. It is critical to

reach the aspect ratio of over 10:1 compared with the existing mature technology at the
5:1 level.
Progress has been steady across drilling physics, plating chemistries, and metrology, but
the industry is still converging on stable, transferable process windows that remain robust
under production variability.
Broadcom’s switch ASIC is likely the pioneer of glass core
substrate
We believe Broadcom (AVGO US, NR) is likely to be one of the early movers in adopting

glass core substrate, possibly by 2027F, which may be firstly adopted on its switch ASIC.
The main reason that Broadcom uses glass core substrate is mainly to avoid
issues with heat, which could result in the warpage of substrate. By using the glass
core substrate, it can be a good heat spreader with better heat dissipation through
copper pillars, in our view.
In our view, leading substrate makers such as Unimicron (3037 TT, Buy) could all
possibly work on glass core substrate development, while Broadcom has also invested in

a substrate production factory with Toppan (7911 JP, Buy) in Singapore. Possible supply
chain partners include Schott, as major glass material suppliers. We note that DR Laser
(300776 CH, NR), Hi-Nano Optoelectronics (unlisted), Spirox (3055 TT, NR), and
Innostars (7828 TT, NR) are each cooperating with Ingentec for TGV formation.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
84

### Page 85

Fig. 144: Process of glass substrate and some supply chain names 
Source: Manz, Nomura research

S
ales contribution to Ingentec could be significant, but cost, 
technical issues and resource allocation not fully resolved yet
According to our estimates, the TGV process now, with only small trial production volume, 
can cost USD400-500 per unit, which means the total ASP of a glass core substrate is 
likely over USD1,500 per unit, significantly more expensive than the large size ABF 
substrate of around USD200. Thus, we assume that glass core substrate ASP when 
entering into mass production, should be down to USD400 at least, otherwise it would not 
be competitive in terms of cost (
Fig. 145 ). 
Another issue is RDL dielectric peeling and delamination, which is currently the 
technology bottleneck at the substrate maker side. Once the TGV process is done, the 
glass core with copper pillars embedded will have to be sent to substrate makers to form 
the RDL to complete the overall glass core substrate production. However, the CTE 
(coefficient of thermal) mismatch and surface adhesion challenges between different 
materials including glass, ABF and copper are fundamental physics issues, not just 
engineering refinements. As a result, most of the substrate makers are not aggressively 
pushing forward the mass production of glass core substrate at the moment (
Fig. 146 ).
Lastly, due to Intel’s strong commitment to the leading substrate partners such as Ibiden 
(4062 JP, Buy), Unimicron, and Shinko (6967 JP, NR) to bring up the EMIB-T technology 
into mass production, the leading substrate companies are expanding capacity for Intel 
aggressively through co-investment, which could put glass core substrate priority to be 
lower than EMIB-T. Unimicron recently announced multiple CAPEX spending on 
procuring equipment from Toray (3402 JP, Neutral) and ASMPT NEXX (unlisted), which 
we believe are mainly for EMIB-T capacity expansion. As a result, if Broadcom is really 
dedicated to put glass core substrate into mass production, we think it would be better for 
Broadcom to co-invest the capacity with its supply chain partners and provide more 
incentives; otherwise, itssupply chain partners may not be able to ramp up capacity 
smoothly considering the lack of resources and funding for glass core substrate 
production.
If all the issues are able to be largely resolved by the end of 2027F, we assume that there 
will be some revenue contribution to Ingentec by 4Q27F, with TGV ASP starting from 
USD200, gradually decreasing to USD140 after a few quarters. Shipments could reach 
hundreds of units per quarter, which could easily contribute multiple sales scale to its 
existing core specialty gas business (
Fig. 147 ). 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
85

### Page 86

Fig. 145: Potential BOM cost of glass core substrate vs ABF substrate
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 146: RDL dielectric peeling and delamination issue on glass core substrate
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
86

### Page 87

Fig. 147: Ingentec: Sales breakdown by specialty gas and glass core substrate
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
87

### Page 88

Earnings forecasts
W
e estimate Ingentec’s sales can grow by over 30% y-y in 2026F, driven by a recovery in 
the core specialty gas business. From 2027F onwards, whether glass core substrate 
business can take off is the most critical factor. We assume there would be some volume 
in 4Q27F at the earliest, with full acceleration in 2028F. However, as the company will 
require strong cash flow to support capex expansion, we think Ingentec may have to issue 
new shares or strategically work with major customers for fund-raising, and thus there 
could be share dilution in 2027-28F. 
Fig. 148: Ingentec: P&L
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

V
aluation and risks
Our TP of TWD960 is based on 60x 2028F EPS of TWD16, in the mid-range of the 
company’s P/E range of 45-75x over 2021-2023, when its core specialty gas business 
was strong, driven by tight supply due to the Ukraine-Russia war.
Downside risks include: 1) the weakening semi capex cycle; 2) a loss of market share to 
competitors; 3) commercialization delay in next-generation products; and 4) slower-than-
expected adoption of glass core substrate.
Fig. 149: Ingentec: P/E
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates
Fig. 150: Ingentec: P/B
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
88

### Page 89

Fig. 151: Valuation comparison table

Note: Bloomberg consensus for Not rated stocks; pricing as of 15 May 2026 
S
ource: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
89

### Page 90

Appendix
Co
mpany profile
Ingentec Corporation is a specialty chemicals and materials manufacturer headquartered 
in Taiwan. Founded in 2010, the company focuses on the development, production and 
sales of precision chemicals and special materials for the semiconductor and 
optoelectronics industries. Ingentec has developed three core technology platforms: (1) 
Fine Chemical Distillation Technology – producing ultra-high-purity specialty gases 
(C4F8, SiF4, C3F8, C4F6, CH2F2, F2 mixtures) using a proprietary “three-cut” distillation 
process with six full manufacturing steps (synthesis, purification, blending, transfilling, 
analysis, and special component design/assembly); (2) Vapor Etching and Decomposition 
Technology – patented dry etching foundry services combining equipment and recipe; 
and (3) Intrinsic Magnetization Filmy Thermal Conductivity Technology – producing 
copper magnetic wafers (CMW) with ultra-thin, high heat dissipation and magnetic 
permeability for advanced applications including µLED displays (TransVivi Pixel, 
CMuLED). Additional products include wet chemicals, TGV glass core products, tungsten 
ropes for crystal growth, and international trading of semiconductor/display/PCB/solar 
materials. In 2025, sales were approximately TWD1.23bn. 
Facilities and offices
Fig. 152: Ingentec: Facilities and offices
Facility Location Products Use Notes
Zhunan – HQ & Fab 1 
Ultra-high-purity specialty gases 
(C4F8, SiF4, C3F8, C4F6, CH2F2, F2 
mixtures); dry etching foundry services; 
copper magnetic wafers (CMW); TGV 
glass core products
Headquarters, R&D, Manufacturing Main production base; six full specialty 
gas manufacturing processes
Zhunan  – Fab 2
Wet chemicals (INGEST® brand); 
additional specialty gas and material 
production capacity
Manufacturing Second production facility; capacity 
expansion
Tainan  – Branch Office — Sales, Service Southern Taiwan sales & customer 
support
Source: Company data

Man
agement team (Executive Committee)
Fig. 153: Ingentec: Management team
Name Occupation Resume
Chen Ya-Li Chairman & General Manager 
(CEO)
Founder of Ingentec Corporation. Established the company in 2010 and has 
served as Chairman and General Manager since inception. 
Tony Chang Director / Spokesperson Board Director and official spokesperson of Ingentec. 
Wang Chi-Ming Director / Deputy Spokesperson Board Director and Deputy Spokesperson. 
Chiang Shou-Wei Director Board Director. Contributes to strategic governance and oversight.
Lin Hsin-Yi Director Board Director.
Shao Cheng-Te Independent Director Independent Director. Provides independent oversight on audit, governance 
and compliance matters.
Tseng Chuan-En Independent Director Independent Director. Provides independent oversight.
Source: Company data

Maj
or shareholders
Fig. 154: Ingentec: Shareholders
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
90

### Page 91

EQUITY: TECHNOLOGY
Advanced Echem Materials   4749.TWO 4749 TT
Global Markets Research
21 May 2026
Becoming TOK of Taiwan is the ultimate goal
TSMC’s major rinse supplier is aiming to further expand 
the market share in BARC and photoresist market
Action: Initiate coverage with a Buy rating and a TP of TWD1,500
We initiate coverage of Advanced Echem Materials (AEMC) with a Buy rating and a target price 
of TWD1,500, implying 48% upside. AEMC is one of the leading Taiwan-based developers and 
manufacturers of specialty chemical materials for semiconductor and display applications, and is 
among the major photoresist (PR) auxiliary domestic suppliers for a leading foundry customer. 
Considering the leading foundry customer’s aggressive N3/N2 and sub-2nm capacity expansion 
plans from 2026-27E onwards and AEMC’s potential market share gains from global peers, we 
forecast 2026-30F revenue/net income CAGR of around 30% for AEMC. Our TP of TWD1,500 is 
based on 60x FY28F EPS of TWD25 – the target multiple of 60x reflects our expectation that 
AEMC would sustainably grow its business with the leading foundry customer and the total 
addressable market (TAM) of PR would expand. The stock is currently trading at 42x 2028F 
EPS. Key risks include: (1) product disqualifications; (2) loss of market share; (3) a lack of new 
high-end products; (4) weakness in semiconductor demand.
Market share gain from global peers at leading foundry customer
AEMC’s product portfolio expansion at the leading foundry customer has mainly driven its sales. 
Rinse is currently the major sales contributor, where AEMC has gained market share at the 
leading foundry customer’s N2 node over its competitor BASF (BAS GR, NR)/3M (MMM US, 
NR) since 2H25. As a result, we expect AEMC’s rinse business to grow steadily along with the 
leading foundry customer’s capacity expansion, and its dominant position in rinse products could 
sustain into the A10 node based on current visibility. KrF BARC is another product that AEMC is 
working on to penetrate into the leading foundry customer; meanwhile, we think it might have an 
opportunity to challenge Du Pont’s (DD US, NR) position at the initial stage. 
Taiwan's TOK: becoming a semiconductor PR supplier is the ultimate goal 
The global advanced PR market has been dominated by Japanese companies such as Tokyo 
Ohka Kogyo (TOK; 4186 JP, Neutral), and JSR (unlisted). Although with high technology entry 
barriers, we think it is a long-term call option for AEMC to be able to supply PR with great support 
from a leading foundry customer. On the other hand, as PR material upgrade would be required 
for high-NA EUV (High Numerical Aperture Extreme Ultraviolet), which is likely to further broaden 
the PR market, we see scope for AEMC to penetrate into the low-end PR market such as KrF 
PR initially.

### Page 92

Key data on Advanced Echem Materials

Performance
(%) 1M 3M 12M
Absolute (TWD) 11.4 22.3 83.9 M cap (USDmn) 2,983.5
Absolute (USD) 11.7 21.8 75.6 Free float (%) 78.8
Rel to Taiwan 
T
AIEX Index
-0.7 -0.2 -5.6 3-mth ADT (USDmn) 89.5
Income statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec FY24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Revenue 3,322 4,262 5,223 6,550 8,391
Cost of goods sold -2,117 -2,426 -2,946 -3,715 -4,711
Gross profit 1,204 1,835 2,277 2,835 3,680
SG&A -618 -774 -938 -1,073 -1,241
Employee share 
expense
Operating profit 587 1,062 1,339 1,762 2,440
EBITDA 819 1,326 1,632 2,091 2,814
Depreciation -225 -255 -283 -319 -364
Amortisation -7 -10 -10 -10 -10
EBIT 587 1,062 1,339 1,762 2,440
Net interest expense -16 53 56 56 56
Associates & JCEs
Other income 258 145 239 240 240
Earnings before tax 828 1,259 1,634 2,058 2,736
Income tax -131 -215 -261 -329 -438
Net profit after tax 697 1,044 1,373 1,729 2,298
Minority interests 0 0 0 0 0
Other items
Preferred dividends
Normalised NPAT 697 1,044 1,372 1,728 2,298
Extraordinary items
Reported NPAT 697 1,044 1,372 1,728 2,298
Dividends -230 -555 -742 -927 -1,206
Transfer to reserves 467 488 630 801 1,092
Valuations and ratios
Reported P/E (x) 119.9 89.6 68.5 54.4 40.9
Normalised P/E (x) 119.9 89.6 68.5 54.4 40.9
FD normalised P/E (x) 119.9 89.6 68.5 54.4 40.9
Dividend yield (%) 0.3 0.6 0.8 1.0 1.3
Price/cashflow (x) 88.5 83.8 73.3 61.3 47.5
Price/book (x) 28.6 10.2 9.5 8.8 8.0
EV/EBITDA (x) 116.0 70.3 57.1 44.5 32.9
EV/EBIT (x) 161.9 87.8 69.6 52.8 38.0
Gross margin (%) 36.3 43.1 43.6 43.3 43.9
EBITDA margin (%) 24.6 31.1 31.2 31.9 33.5
EBIT margin (%) 17.7 24.9 25.6 26.9 29.1
Net margin (%) 21.0 24.5 26.3 26.4 27.4
Effective tax rate (%) 15.8 17.1 16.0 16.0 16.0
Dividend payout (%) 33.0 53.2 54.1 53.7 52.5
ROE (%) 26.0 17.2 14.4 16.8 20.5
ROA (pretax %) 13.2 14.7 13.6 16.7 21.4
Growth (%)
Revenue 40.5 28.3 22.6 25.4 28.1
EBITDA 94.8 62.0 23.1 28.1 34.6
Normalised EPS 8.5 33.8 30.9 25.9 32.9
Normalised FDEPS 8.5 33.8 30.9 25.9 32.9
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Cashflow statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
EBITDA 819 1,326 1,632 2,091 2,814
Change in working capital -82 -245 -254 -363 -486
Other operating cashflow 207 35 -97 -197 -351
Cashflow from operations 944 1,117 1,282 1,532 1,977
Capital expenditure -1, 119 -1,144 -600 -600 -600
Free cashflow -176 -27 682 932 1,377
Reduction in investments 311 -3,032 212 212 212
Net acquisitions
Dec in other LT assets -1 3 -30 -76
Inc in other LT liabilities 109 0 0 0
Adjustments 0 -108 -3 30 76
CF after investing acts 136 -3,059 893 1,143 1,588
Cash dividends -230 -555 -742 -927 -1,206
Equity issue 5 5,734 0 0 0
Debt issue 112 -1,530 0 0 0
Convertible debt issue 0 0 0 0 0
Others -9 -88 -88 -88 -88
CF from financial acts -122 3,560 -830 -1,016 -1,294
Net cashflow 14 501 63 128 294
Beginning cash 423 437 938 1,001 1,128
Ending cash 437 938 1,001 1,128 1,423
Ending net debt 1, 081 -938 -1,001 -1,128 -1,423
Balance sheet (TWDmn)
As at 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Cash & equivalents 437 938 1,001 1,128 1,423
Marketable securities 13 2,942 2,942 2,942 2,942
Accounts receivable 532 551 676 847 1,085
Inventories 677 904 1,097 1,383 1,754
Other current assets 157 147 147 147 147
Total current assets 1, 815 5,481 5,862 6,448 7,351
LT investments 218 713 713 713 713
Fixed assets 2, 770 3,743 4,060 4,340 4,576
Goodwill
Other intangible assets
Other LT assets 531 532 529 559 635
Total assets 5, 334 10,469 11,164 12,060 13,276
Short-term debt 180 0 0 0 0
Accounts payable 197 300 364 459 583
Other current liabilities 779 667 667 667 667
Total current liabilities 1, 156 967 1,031 1,126 1,249
Long-term debt 1, 102 0 0 0 0
Convertible debt
Other LT liabilities 142 251 251 251 251
Total liabilities 2, 400 1,217 1,282 1,377 1,500
Minority interest 10 10 10 10 10
Preferred stock
Common stock 1, 723 7,501 7,501 7,501 7,501
Retained earnings 1, 174 1,663 2,294 3,095 4,187
Proposed dividends
Other equity and reserves 28 78 78 78 78
Total shareholders' equity 2, 925 9,242 9,873 10,674 11,766
Total equity & liabilities 5, 334 10,469 11,164 12,060 13,276
Liquidity (x)
Current ratio 1. 57 5.67 5.69 5.73 5.88
Interest cover 36. 6 – – – –
Leverage
Net debt/EBITDA (x) 1. 32 net cash net cash net cash net cash
Net debt/equity (%) 36. 9 net cash net cash net cash net cash
Per share
Reported EPS (TWD) 8. 47 11.33 14.83 18.67 24.82
Norm EPS (TWD) 8. 47 11.33 14.83 18.67 24.82
FD norm EPS (TWD) 8. 47 11.33 14.83 18.67 24.82
BVPS (TWD) 35. 55 99.85 106.66 115.32 127.11
DPS (TWD) 2. 79 6.00 8.01 10.02 13.02
Activity (days)
Days receivable 58. 5 46.4 42.9 42.4 42.1
Days inventory 116. 7 118.9 123.9 121.9 121.9
Days payable 34. 0 37.4 41.2 40.5 40.5
Cash cycle 141. 2 127.9 125.6 123.8 123.6
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
92

### Page 93

Company profile
AEMC was founded in 2003 and committed to the development and manufacturing of specialized chemical materials, mainly photoresist auxiliary for
"
semiconductor and display" applications. In 2020, it has started to expand R&D facility in Taoyuan, and gradually established two factories for
production of semiconductor materials in Tainan and Kaohsiung (Southern Taiwan Science Park).
Valuation Methodology
Our TP TWD1,500 is based on 60x FY28F EPS TWD25, in the mid-range of its historical P/E of 30-80x to address the stably growing business with

t
he leading foundry customer as well as the rising total addressable market (TAM) of photoresist and photoresist auxiliary. The bench mark market
index is TAIEX.
Risks that may impede the achievement of the target price
Downside risks include: 1) products are disqualified by the leading foundry customer; 2) losing market share to other competitors; 3) not able to
supply
more high-end products such as BARC and photoresist; 4) the weakening Semi market demand.

ESG
AEMC publishes sustainability report every year. Its goal is continuous innovation in green product design refers to the continuous search for new
and
environmentally friendly solutions when designing products to reduce the negative impact on the environment while improving the quality and
efficiency of products.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
93

### Page 94

Photoresist and photoresist auxiliary
P
hotoresist (PR) introduction
PR is a light-sensitive polymer used for wafer photolithography in IC manufacturing. The
photolithography process is the most time-consuming step in the whole IC manufacturing
process. During the photolithography process, PR is applied on the wafer surface before
the etch process, and then it is allowed to be dissolved away once the etching process is
over. There are two purposes behind the application of PR layers: (1) to form precise

patterns, and (2) to protect the substrate from being damaged by chemicals during the
etching process.
PR is the key material for photolithography, and in manufacturing, the quality has a
substantial impact on its performance. PRs are usually composed of adhesive agents
(~20%), sensitizers (~10%) and solvents (~70%). A good PR usually requires high
contrast, high resolution and high sensitivity, so that the circuit pattern can be copied
precisely to the wafer surface. What is more, high purity, strong etch resistance,

dissolvability, and a defined surface tension, density and viscosity are also essential for
good PR, due to the manufacturing engineering standards.
The global PR market has been dominated by companies from Japan for a long time such as
Tokyo Ohka Kogyo (TOK; 4186 JP, Neutral), and JSR (unlisted).
In terms of different reactions when exposed to UV light, there are two types of
semiconductor PR: positive PR and negative PR (
Fig. 156 ).
With positive PR, UV light strategically hits the material in the areas that need to be

removed. These exposed areas are then washed away by PR developer solvent,
leaving the underlying material. The areas of the PR that are not exposed to the UV
light are left insoluble to the PR developer. As a result, there is an identical copy of
the pattern that exposed as a mask on the wafer.
•
Negative PR, which is just the opposite of positive PR, is extremely difficult to
dissolve. The UV exposed negative resist remains on the wafer while the PR

developer solution works to remove the areas that are unexposed. This leaves a
mask that consists of an inverse pattern of the original, which is applied on the wafer.
•
Both positive and negative PRs are used in the semiconductor manufacturing industry,
but more suppliers opt for positive PR due to higher resolution and higher-resolution
capabilities.
PR auxiliary introduction
BARC (Bottom Anti-Reflective Coatings; Film)•
BARC is placed beneath the PR layer to prevent light reflection from the substrate. This

helps to suppress standing waves caused by interference within the resist layer during
exposure, which can lead to variations in sidewall profiles and critical dimensions. As a
result, BARC improves the accuracy of lithography.
EBR (Edge Bead Removal)•
EBR is a process that removes excess PR from the edge of a coated substrate preventing
defects that may arise due to non-uniformity. EBR materials are the specialized solvent
mixtures designed to dissolve and remove excess PR.

Developer•
Developer is a chemical agent used in photolithography to dissolve and remove soluble
portions of PR, revealing the underlying circuit pattern.
Rinse•
Rinse materials are specialized chemical solutions, often containing surfactants or, in the
case of Dry Development Rinse (DDR), functional polymers, used after PR development
in lithography to prevent pattern collapse.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
94

### Page 95

PR removal •
P
R removal involves stripping, ashing, or cleaning PR polymers after lithography using 
chemical solvents (Acetone, NMP, DMSO), plasma ashing, or wet cleaning (SPM).
Fig. 155: PR and lithography process
Source: Nikon, Nomura research

Fig. 156: PR processes and the materials required
Source: Nomura research    
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
95

### Page 96

Fig. 157: The technology difficulties of PR and auxiliaries
Source: Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
96

### Page 97

The change of PR and related materials are required for high-NA EUV
W
ith a higher NA, photons strike the wafer at a shallower angle. That requires thinner PR 
layers to avoid shadowing. The upside is that a thinner resist layer reduces the risk of 
pattern collapse, as the aspect ratio of resist features is smaller. However, it also provides 
less protection for the wafer. In addition, long etch processes used to create high-aspect 
ratio wafer features can erode the resist layer, ultimately degrading the transferred 
pattern. With less material a thinner resist also captures fewer photons, potentially making 
roughness and other stochastic effects worse.
At present, metal-oxide resists are probably the leading alternative to photoacid-driven 
chemistries, or chemically amplified resists (CAR). Based on a metal-oxide core, 
surrounded by ligands that tune solubility, crosslinking, and other properties, these resists 
offer inherently good etch resistance. The dense core absorbs more energy, too, 
attenuating electron energy and reducing blur. Due to the change of materials, the PR 
price for high-NA EUV could be much higher than the existing EUV. According to our 
industry survey, the PR for high-NA EUV can be up to USD10,000-40,000 per gallon, 
increase significantly from USD5,000 for existing EUV. 
Improved etch resistance and absorption address the most serious limitations of thin 
resists, offering a high NA-friendly solution. Unfortunately, only negative tone metal-oxide 
resists are available, so they cannot be used for contact holes. Both Inpria (unlisted; 
acquired by JSR [unlisted]) and Lam Research (LRCX US, NR) offer metal-oxide resists, 
differentiated in part by their approaches to development. Lam Research is attempting to 
disrupt the whole stack. Instead of a wet PR technology using a spin coater, they will use 
a chemical vapor deposition process to layer on a metal PR. The throughput and 
patterned lines would be slower but more accurate. If using TEL and JSR’s solution, due 
to the change of the material of PR, the developer would need to be changed as well. 
Currently, Tetramethylammonium Hydroxide (TMAH) is widely used as developer for 
existing EUV. But for high-NA EUV, propylene glycol methyl ether acetate (PGMEA) with 
acid is likely a better solution. We expect TOK is likely the major supplier. The purity 
requirement of developer would be higher as well.
Although the existing wet process solution supplied by TEL and JSR will be likely more 
cost effective without procuring the new equipment, we expect TSMC (2330 TT, Buy) to 
adopt Lam Research’s solution in the high-NA EUV era.
Fig. 158: The reduction in PR film thickness 
Source: Cadence

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
97

### Page 98

Fig. 159: The advantage of using metal-oxide PRs over chemically amplified PRs
Source: Inperia

Fig. 160: The price of PR per gallon
A
lthough MOR carries higher ASP, the usage is much smaller than regular high-NA EUV ph
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 161: TEL and JSR vs Lam Research’s solution
Lam 
Research is using dry deposition and dry develop equipment to grow/eliminate PR 
Source: TEL, Lam Research, Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
98

### Page 99

Fig. 162: The spec of different PRs by nodes and major suppliers
Source: Nomura research and estimates (for high-NA EUV related information)

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
99

### Page 100

AEMC is expanding market share in PR 
au
xiliary market and aiming to produce PR
AEMC has been expanding its market share at the leading foundry customer, including 
rinse and cleaner. Rinse is currently the major sales contributor for AEMC, where AEMC 
has gained significant market share at the leading foundry customer’s N2 node over its 
competitor BASF/3M since 2H25. As a result, we expect AEMC’s rinse business to grow 
steadily along with the leading foundry customer’s capacity expansion, and its dominant 
position in rinse products could sustain to the A10 node based on current visibility. KrF 
BARC is another product that AEMC is working on to penetrate into the leading foundry 
customer, while we think it has a likelihood to challenge Du Pont’s position at the initial 
stage. Compared with the distant PR material market leader TOK. AEMC’s sales CAGR 
was 23% in 2020-2025 vs TOK’s CAGR of 9% (only include TOK’s electronic functional 
materials business). Under the leading foundry’s localization plan, if AEMC can execute 
well to further improve its technology capability, we expect AEMC to further increase the 
market share in the long term. 
Fig. 163: The matrix of some key Semi materials vs suppliers
Source: Company data, Nomura research

Fig. 164: AEMC: sales breakdown by product lines
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Fig. 165: AEMC sales vs TOK EFM sales
Source: Company data Note: EFM: electronic functional materials

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
100

### Page 101

Earnings forecast
I
n 2026F, AEMC is facing capacity constraints due to phase 1 of its major production
facility in Kaohsiung reaching the capacity limit. The company is expecting phase 2
capacity to be qualified by customers by the end of 2026F at the earliest. The phase two
capacity can support another TWD5bn sales from current annual run rate of TWD5bn
sales in 2026F. As a result, we expect AEMC’s sales could grow over 20% continuously
in 2026-2029F to reach TWD10bn levels.

Fig. 166: AEMC: P&L
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
101

### Page 102

Valuation and risks
O
ur TP of TWD1,500 is based on 60x FY28F EPS TWD25, in the mid-range of its 
historical P/E of 30-80x, given our expectation that AEMC would sustainably grow its 
business with the leading foundry customer as well as the total addressable market (TAM) 
of photoresist and photoresist auxiliary would rise. 
Downside risks include: (1) product disqualifications by the leading foundry customer; (2) 
loss of market share to other competitors; (3) not being able to supply more high-end 
products such as BARC and photoresist. 
Fig. 167: AEMC: P/E
Source: Bloomberg, Nomura estimates
Fig. 168: AEMC: P/B
Source: Bloomberg, Nomura estimates

Fig. 169: Valuation comparison

Note: Bloomberg consensus for Not rated stocks; pricing as of 15 May 2026Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
102

### Page 103

Appendix
Co
mpany profile
Advanced Echem Materials Company Limited (AEMC) is a specialty chemicals company 
focused on the development and manufacturing of electronic materials for semiconductor 
advanced processes, advanced packaging, and display applications. Founded in 2003 
and headquartered in Longtan District, Taoyuan City, Taiwan, AEMC’s products include 
IC manufacturing materials, cleaning chemicals, CMOS image sensor materials, 
fingerprint-on-display sensor materials, chip-on-film materials, packaging materials, TFT 
PR, resin black matrix, and micro-LED materials. The company invests more than 10% of 
its annual revenue in R&D and maintains a chemical R&D team that accounts for 
approximately one-third of its headcount. AEMC has received support from nine 
government science and technology programs and holds multiple patents. In 2025, 
revenue was approximately TWD4.3bn.
Facilities and offices
Fig. 170: AEMC: facilities and offices
Source: Company data

Man
agement team (Executive Committee)
Fig. 171: AEMC: management team

### Page 104

Major shareholders
Fig. 172: AEMC: shareholders
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
104

### Page 105

EQUITY: TECHNOLOGY
Kinik Company   1560.TW 1560 TT
Global Markets Research
21 May 2026
Critical CMP and reclaim wafer role player
Riding on the growing demand for CMP and reclaim 
wafer; grinding wheel could be additional catalyst
Action: Initiate coverage with Buy rating and TWD840 TP
Kinik is the dominant chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) pad conditioner (DBU) supplier to 
the leading foundry with ~80% share on the N2 node through a multi-year co-development 
partnership. Kinik's reclaim/test wafer business (SBU) is also likely growing along with the 
recovery of semi wafer demand. Other than these two growth engines, we expect its grinding 
wheel business (ABU) could be an additional lever if Kinik is able to penetrate into the leading 
OSAT companies in the long term. We initiate coverage of Kinik with a Buy rating and a TP of 
TWD840, based on 40x 2028E EPS TWD21, in the upper half of its historical P/E of 10-45x, to 
address its stably growing business with the leading foundry customer as well as the rising 
total addressable market (TAM) across its different business units. The stock is trading at 31x 
2028F EPS. We expect Kinik’s sales/net profit to see a 21%/75% CAGR in 2026-28F. Risks 
include: 1) products no passing qualification; 2) losing market share; 3) failure to broaden the 
product portfolio; and 4) weakening semi market demand. 
DBU and SBU are set to see secular growth in 2026-28F
Kinik has secured the leading position as the major CMP pad conditioner supplier to the 
leading foundry customer since the N3 node over its peer 3M (MMM US, Not rated). As the 
A16 node will initially adopt backside power (BPD) technology with 20-30% more CMP 
processes required, we expect DBU sales growth to be secured. Also, Kinik’s Intel business 
looks to be improving, as Intel is ramping up its A18 node production. For SBU business, as 
the upcoming Backside Power Delivery (BPD) and wafer-bonded NAND semi technologies will 
consume more wafers, we expect it would be also a positive catalyst for reclaim/testing wafer 
demand. DBU and SBU combined may account for more than 70% of Kinik’s total sales in 
2026F, in our view.
Expanding the ABU business into semi market is the ultimate goal
Currently, Kinik’s ABU business is mainly for industrial and automation applications rather than 
semi. Management is aiming to expand the ABU business into the semi market, such as 
working closely with major OSAT companies to address wafer-grinding opportunities. 
According to our estimates, the semi wafer grinding wheel market is as big as that for CMP 
pad conditioner – both USD400mn+ in 2025. Disco (6146 JP, Neutral) is the distant leader in 
the semi wafer grinding wheel market.

### Page 106

Key data on Kinik Company

Performance
(%) 1M 3M 12M
Absolute (TWD) 23.2 51.1 117.6 M cap (USDmn) 2,997.4
Absolute (USD) 23.5 50.4 107.9 Free float (%) 74.7
Rel to Taiwan 
T
AIEX Index
11.1 28.5 28.2 3-mth ADT (USDmn) 49.2
Income statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec FY24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Revenue 7,019 8,149 9,702 11,353 14,200
Cost of goods sold -4,831 -5,502 -6,135 -7,055 -8,907
Gross profit 2,188 2,647 3,568 4,298 5,294
SG&A -1,033 -1,344 -1,482 -1,645 -1,913
Employee share 
expense
Operating profit 1,155 1,303 2,086 2,653 3,380
EBITDA 1,164 1,955 2,799 3,426 4,249
Depreciation -9 -642 -703 -763 -858
Amortisation 0 -10 -10 -10 -10
EBIT 1,155 1,303 2,086 2,653 3,380
Net interest expense 18 1 -1 -1 -1
Associates & JCEs
Other income 115 354 388 400 400
Earnings before tax 1,289 1,658 2,473 3,052 3,780
Income tax -227 -263 -439 -549 -680
Net profit after tax 1,062 1,395 2,034 2,502 3,099
Minority interests -27 -35 -52 -64 -79
Other items
Preferred dividends
Normalised NPAT 1,035 1,360 1,982 2,439 3,020
Extraordinary items
Reported NPAT 1,035 1,360 1,982 2,439 3,020
Dividends -640 -584 -729 -729 -729
Transfer to reserves 395 776 1,253 1,710 2,292
Valuations and ratios
Reported P/E (x) 90.4 68.8 47.2 38.4 31.0
Normalised P/E (x) 90.4 68.8 47.2 38.4 31.0
FD normalised P/E (x) 90.4 68.8 47.2 38.4 31.0
Dividend yield (%) 0.7 0.6 0.8 0.8 0.8
Price/cashflow (x) 57.9 48.9 28.7 25.6 23.0
Price/book (x) 13.1 11.5 10.1 8.5 7.1
EV/EBITDA (x) 80.7 48.4 33.3 26.8 21.2
EV/EBIT (x) 81.4 72.7 44.7 34.6 26.6
Gross margin (%) 31.2 32.5 36.8 37.9 37.3
EBITDA margin (%) 16.6 24.0 28.9 30.2 29.9
EBIT margin (%) 16.5 16.0 21.5 23.4 23.8
Net margin (%) 14.7 16.7 20.4 21.5 21.3
Effective tax rate (%) 17.6 15.9 17.8 18.0 18.0
Dividend payout (%) 61.8 42.9 36.8 29.9 24.1
ROE (%) 713.6 17.8 22.8 24.2 25.0
ROA (pretax %) 12.9 12.6 18.8 24.9 30.3
Growth (%)
Revenue 10.0 16.1 19.1 17.0 25.1
EBITDA 16.5 68.0 43.2 22.4 24.0
Normalised EPS 20.2 31.4 45.7 23.1 23.8
Normalised FDEPS 20.2 31.4 45.7 23.1 23.8
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Cashflow statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
EBITDA 1, 164 1,955 2,799 3,426 4,249
Change in working capital -45 -244 -636 -581 -1,091
Other operating cashflow 498 202 1,102 806 915
Cashflow from operations 1, 617 1,914 3,265 3,651 4,073
Capital expenditure -349 -1,060 -482 -564 -705
Free cashflow 1, 269 855 2,783 3,087 3,368
Reduction in investments -114 -853 -3 -3 -3
Net acquisitions 0 0 0 0 0
Dec in other LT assets 0 0 0 0 0
Inc in other LT liabilities 0 0 0 0 0
Adjustments 0 0 0 0 0
CF after investing acts 1, 155 1 2,781 3,085 3,365
Cash dividends -640 -584 -729 -729 -729
Equity issue 0 0 0 0 0
Debt issue 0 0 0 0 0
Convertible debt issue 0 0 0 0 0
Others 467 155 -870 -870 -870
CF from financial acts -173 -429 -1,599 -1,599 -1,599
Net cashflow 982 -427 1,182 1,486 1,766
Beginning cash 1, 018 2,001 1,573 2,755 4,241
Ending cash 2, 001 1,573 2,755 4,241 6,007
Ending net debt -848 -220 -1,616 -3,102 -4,868
Balance sheet (TWDmn)
As at 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Cash & equivalents 2, 001 1,573 2,755 4,241 6,007
Marketable securities 0 5 0 0 0
Accounts receivable 1, 149 1,420 1,588 1,858 2,324
Inventories 2, 049 2,431 2,601 2,992 3,777
Other current assets 38 52 38 38 38
Total current assets 5, 237 5,482 6,983 9,129 12,146
LT investments 1, 125 1,071 1,125 1,125 1,125
Fixed assets 4, 249 5,417 5,196 4,997 4,843
Goodwill 0 0 0 0 0
Other intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0
Other LT assets 440 1,289 -32 -190 -603
Total assets 11, 051 13,258 13,271 15,060 17,512
Short-term debt 61 344 61 61 61
Accounts payable 417 490 529 609 769
Other current liabilities 998 1,348 998 998 998
Total current liabilities 1, 475 2,182 1,587 1,667 1,827
Long-term debt 1, 078 1,010 1,078 1,078 1,078
Convertible debt 0 0 0 0 0
Other LT liabilities 1, 071 1,578 1,071 1,071 1,071
Total liabilities 3, 625 4,769 3,737 3,816 3,976
Minority interest 292 344 292 292 292
Preferred stock
Common stock 4, 263 4,437 4,263 4,263 4,263
Retained earnings 2, 886 3,741 4,994 6,704 8,995
Proposed dividends
Other equity and reserves -16 -33 -16 -16 -16
Total shareholders' equity 7, 134 8,145 9,242 10,952 13,243
Total equity & liabilities 11, 051 13,258 13,271 15,060 17,512
Liquidity (x)
Current ratio 3. 55 2.51 4.40 5.48 6.65
Interest cover – – 2,602.3 3,309.3 4,217.3
Leverage
Net debt/EBITDA (x) net  cash net cash net cash net cash net cash
Net debt/equity (%) net  cash net cash net cash net cash net cash
Per share
Reported EPS (TWD) 7. 10 9.33 13.60 16.73 20.72
Norm EPS (TWD) 7. 10 9.33 13.60 16.73 20.72
FD norm EPS (TWD) 7. 10 9.33 13.60 16.73 20.72
BVPS (TWD) 48. 94 55.87 63.39 75.12 90.84
DPS (TWD) 4. 39 4.01 5.00 5.00 5.00
Activity (days)
Days receivable 59. 7 57.5 56.6 55.4 53.9
Days inventory 154. 8 148.6 149.7 144.7 139.1
Days payable 31. 5 30.1 30.3 29.4 28.3
Cash cycle 183. 0 176.0 176.0 170.6 164.7
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
106

### Page 107

Company profile
Founded in 1953, Kinik is Taiwan's first grinding wheel manufacturer dedicated to grinding technology. Since 2000, Kinik has extended its grinding
wheel
expertise into the semiconductor industry. Kinik now supplies grinding wheels, diamond disks, and reclaimed wafers to the leading
semiconductor customers in the worldwide.
Valuation Methodology
Our TP of TWD840 is based on 40x 2028E EPS TWD21, in the upper half of its historical P/E of 10-45x, to address the stably growing business with

t
he leading foundry customer as well as the rising total addressable market (TAM) across its different business units. The bench mark index is
TAIEX.
Risks that may impede the achievement of the target price
Downside risks are: 1) the products are disqualified by the leading foundry customer; 2) losing market share to competitors; 3) fail to broaden the
product
portfolio; 4) the weakening Semi market demand.
ESG
For the purpose of promoting sustainable transformation and strengthening corporate governance performance, Kinik's Board of Directors approved

t
he establishment of the Sustainable Development Committee in December 2021, as the core organization to promote sustainable development.
Kinik publishes annual sustainable report every year since 2022.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
107

### Page 108

CMP pad conditioner introduction
A
 CMP pad is an innovative pad used in the chemical mechanical polishing (CMP) 
process for advanced node semiconductor manufacturing, especially after the PVD 
(physical vapor deposition) process. CMP pad is made of a loose and porous structure 
that comprises a matrix consisting of fibers. The polishing pad surface has voids in which 
polishing slurry flows during the chemical mechanical polishing of substrates, and in 
which debris formed during the chemical-mechanical polishing of substrates is temporarily 
stored for subsequent rinsing away. A CMP pad helps in the application of CMP slurries 
evenly on wafers and improve the stability and efficiency of planarization. CMP pads are 
consumable material, with a normal usage of 45-75 hours. Memory chips are the largest 
downstream applications for CMP pads.
During the CMP process, the pad surface becomes smooth and glazed due to mechanical 
compression from wafer contact and the particle and chemical buildup from slurry 
residues, reducing pad roughness and slurry flow, leading to lower removal rates and the 
risk of non-uniform polishing. Therefore, the CMP pads need to be reconditioned 
continuously to extend its useful life. The pad conditioner (or diamond disk) would 
mechanically scrape the pad surface to reopen pores for slurry distribution, regenerate 
micro-asperities to restore surface texture, and remove glazed material.
We estimate the semiconductor CMP pad conditioner market size was USD400-500mn in 
2025 at moderate supplier concentration, with 4-5 significant players controlling 70-80% 
market share, including Kinik mainly supplying to TSMC, Intel and SMIC, 3M across major 
foundries and memory makers, Entegris across leading US semi customers, SAESOL 
Diamond for Samsung and Hynix, and Asahi Diamond supplying to Japan domestic 
customers.
Fig. 173: CMP pad and conditioner in CMP process
Source: Sensofar Metrology, Nomura research

Fig. 174: CMP processes vs IC technology nodes
Source: SEMI, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
108

### Page 109

Fig. 175: CMP pad conditioner market share
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
109

### Page 110

Backside power delivery and wafer-to-wafer 
tech
nology to drive the growth of semi wafer, 
wafer bonding, grinding, and CMP process 
An introduction to backside power delivery
A power delivery network is designed to provide power supply and reference voltage to 
the active devices on the die most efficiently. Traditionally, it is realized as a network of 
low-resistive metal wires fabricated through back-end-of-line (BEOL) processing on the 
frontside of the wafer. The power delivery network shares this space with the signal 
network, i.e., the interconnects that are designed to transport the signal. Due to the 
narrower pitches in the signal network, f energy lost resulting in a power delivery or IR 
drop when bringing power down.
A backside power delivery network is a solution to these issues. The idea is to decouple 
the power delivery network from the signal network by moving the entire power 
distribution network to the backside of the silicon wafer, which today serves only as a 
carrier. From there, it enables direct power delivery to the standard cells through wider, 
less resistive metal lines, without the electrons needing to travel through the complex 
BEOL stack. This approach reduces IR drop, improves power delivery performance, 
reduces routing congestion in the BEOL, and when properly designed, allows for further 
standard cell-height scaling.
As two silicon wafers are used in the back-side power delivery process – one is the silicon 
wafer acting as an interposer (first semi wafer) in between the signal network, and the 
other is acting as the permanent silicon carrier (second semi wafer) of the device – we 
expect the usage of silicon wafers will increase, along with wafer bonding. On the other 
hand, the wafer bonding, grinding and thinning process will increase as well to form the 
silicon interposer in between the signal and power network (
Fig. 176 -5 ). 
Fig. 176: The structure of TSMC’s super power rail
Source: TSMC

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
110

### Page 111

Fig. 177: The process flow of BPD
Source: IMEC

W
e expect backside power delivery inflection point in 2027F, 
when TSMC start to ramp-up more A16 capacity
We expect 2027F will be the BPD inflection point, as TSMC's A16 ramping-up at scale 
drives the dominant share of global BPD capacity and its associated semi wafer, bonding, 
thinning, and CMP demand. We expect the majority of high-performance computing 
(HPC) chips will adopt BPD technology, while other chips could continue to use the 
normal version node without the BPD function. As a result, for TSMC, we expect its A16 
and A12 nodes will be BPD ready, while N2 and A14 nodes will not be equipped with 
BPD. By 2030F, global BPD capacity may contribute an additional low-single-digit 
percentage of total global 12” semi wafer demand. 
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
111

### Page 112

Fig. 178: The key incremental processes required for BPD
Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 179: BPD capacity by TSMC and other foundries
Source: Nomura estimates

T
he wafer-bonded NAND inflection point in 2027F – memory 
and logic wafers are made separately and bonded together
The wafer-bonded NAND technology was introduced by YMTC for the first time in 2018, 
YMTC’s wafer bonded technology is called Xtacking, and can be also called CMOS 
directly bonded to array (CBA) technology, which makes the CMOS circuit (logic) wafers 
and memory cells array wafers can be manufactured separately and bonded together. 
Before the launch of CBA architecture, 3D NAND architectures in the market were divided 
into the traditional side-by-side structure and CnA (CMOS next to Array) architecture. 
Since the two types of wafers are manufactured in parallel, there is also the added benefit 
of shortened production times compared to the conventional method. Performing high-
temperature processing solely on the memory cell array wafer makes it possible to 
achieve the optimal temperature to ensure reliability without having to consider the impact 
on the CMOS circuit. By separating the wafer manufacturing processes, the performance 
of the CMOS circuit and the memory cell array can be maximized.
As a result, besides YMTC has already adopted CBA technology to produce its 3D NAND 
since 2018, Kioxia has produced some volume since 2H24 as well. However, we expect 
Kioxia may further increase its wafer-bonded NAND capacity more meaningfully by end-
2026F, with Samsung and Hynix following by 2027F. We believe this is likely to be 
positive for the following supply chain sectors:
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
112

### Page 113

Cleanroom space will be increased due to more wafer-to-wafer bonding processes 
are 
required to produce the same amount of NAND supply.
1. 
Semi wafer usage will be increased due to additional logic wafer will be used.2. 
Wafer-to-wafer bonding tool demand will be increased.3. 
However, the cleanroom space and semi wafer demand growth would not be 100% but 
more likely to grow by around 40% more mainly due to the faster front-end process time 
to produce each CMOS and memory wafers (
Fig. 183 ). By 2030F, global wafer-bonded 
NAND capacity may contribute an additional mid-to-high-single-digit percentage of 
total global 12” semi wafer demand.
Fig. 180: 3D NAND: CNA vs CBA structure 
Source: Kioxia
Fig. 181: The wafer-to-wafer bonding structure
Source: Kioxia
Fig. 182: YMTC’s Xtacking technology
Source: YMTC

Fig. 183: The wafer bonded NAND wafer input vs output
T
he cleanroom space and semi wafer demand will be 40% more 
Source: Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
113

### Page 114

Fig. 184: Wafer-bonded NAND capacity % 
T
he wafer bonded NAND capacity will start to grow more meaningfully from 
2026-27F
Source: Nomura estimates
Fig. 185: Incremental wafer-bonded NAND capacity vs 
i
ncremental semi wafer demand

Source: Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
114

### Page 115

Semi grinding wheel market is potentially as 
b
ig as CMP pad conditioner market for Kinik
Currently, Kinik’s ABU business is mainly for industrial and automation applications rather 
than for semiconductors. Management is aiming to expand the ABU business into the 
semi market, such as working closely with major OSAT companies to address wafer-
grinding opportunities. According to our estimates, the semi wafer grinding wheel market 
is as big as the market for CMP pad conditioner – both over USD400mn in 2025.
According to leading global dicing and grinding equipment supplier Disco, around 35% of 
its total sales were from consumables in FY25, with grinding wheels accounting for 
around 30-40% of total consumables. As a result, we estimate Disco had around 
USD350mn in sales from grinding wheels. As Disco is the distant leader in the semi wafer 
grinding wheel market, accounting for around 80% of the market share, according to 
management, we think that a reasonable for the global semi grinding wheel market is 
around USD400-500mn, similar to the market for CMP pad conditioner. As Kinik remains 
a relatively insignificant player in this market, we think this could represent upside 
potential in terms of Kinik’s future business development. 
Fig. 186: Disco: Sales breakdown, FY25
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Fig. 187: Semi grinding wheel market share by suppliers
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

Fig. 188: Kinik: Sales breakdown by business unit
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
115

### Page 116

Earnings forecast
I
n 2026F, Kinik is likely to grow its sales toward the TWD10bn level, in our view, due to
strong growth momentum of its DBU and SBU. We expect this momentum to continue in
2027-28F due to its leading foundry customer’s capacity expansion plan and the recovery
of the semi wafer market. If its ABU can grow further by penetrating into the semi market,
it may generate upside to sales and earnings in the long term.
Fig. 189: Kinik: P&L

Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
116

### Page 117

Valuation and risks
O
ur TP of TWD840 is based on 40x 2028E EPS TWD21, in the upper half of its historical 
P/E of 10-45x, to address the stably growing business with the leading foundry customer 
as well as the rising total addressable market (TAM) across its different business units. 
Downside risks are: 1) the products are disqualified by the leading foundry customer; 2) 
losing market share to competitors; 3) failure to broaden the product portfolio; 4) 
weakening semi market demand.
Fig. 190: Kinik: P/E
Source: Bloomberg, Nomura estimates
Fig. 191: Kinik: P/B
Source: Bloomberg, Nomura estimates

Fig. 192: A valuation comparison

Source: Nomura estimates and Bloomberg consensus as of 15 May 2026

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
117

### Page 118

Appendix
Co
mpany Profile
Kinik is Taiwan’s leading grinding wheel and abrasive product manufacturer, with over 70 
years of history. Originally founded in 1953 as China Grinding Wheel Corporation 
(rebranded KINIK in 1988) and headquartered in New Taipei City, the company has 
transformed from a traditional grinding wheel maker into a high-value-added supplier 
serving the semiconductor industry. Kinik’s business spans four key segments: 1) 
Conventional Abrasives (grinding wheels, cutting wheels), 2) Diamond Products (CMP 
diamond disk pad conditioners, diamond/CBN grinding wheels, DLC coatings, ultra-
precision machining tools), 3) Reclaimed Wafers (8" and 12" reclaimed silicon wafers for 
semiconductor fabs), and 4) Semiconductor Materials. Kinik ranks in Top 2 of both CMP 
diamond pad conditioner and reclaimed wafer market share globally. The company 
serves over 8,000 customers with more than 100,000 product specifications with ~1,500–
1,600 employees. In 2025, revenue was approximately TWD8.1bn.
Facilities and Offices
Fig. 193: Kinik: facilities and offices
Source: Company data

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
118

### Page 119

Management team (Executive Committee)
Fig. 194: Kinik: management team
Name Occupation Resume
Lin Po-Chuan Chairman of the 
Board
Current Chairman of Kinik Company. Elected in the most recent Board re-
election. Responsible for overall strategic direction, corporate governance 
and stakeholder relations. The Lin family has long-standing ties to the 
company, continuing the legacy of the founding Pai family.
Jung-Che Hsieh 
Chief Executive 
Officer (CEO) & 
Director
CEO of Kinik Company. Led the company’s transformation from traditional 
grinding wheels into diamond-related semiconductor products and 
reclaimed wafers. Oversees all four business units: Abrasives, Diamond, 
Semiconductor Materials, and Optoelectronics. Has guided Kinik’s 
recognition as an TSMC outstanding supplier and winner of the National 
Quality Award. Frequently cited in media as the driving force behind Kinik’s 
“reinvention every 20 years.”
Pai Wen-Liang Vice Chairman Vice Chairman of the Board. Member of the founding Pai family. Previously 
served as director with significant shareholdings.
Pai Ching-Chung Director Board member. Member of the founding family.
Liao Po-Hsi Independent 
Director
Independent board member. Provides oversight on audit and corporate 
governance.
Tsai Hsin-Yuan Independent 
Director Independent board member.
Hsiao Wen-Yi Independent 
Director Independent board member.
Source: Company data

Maj
or shareholders
Fig. 195: Kinik: shareholders
Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P.

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
119

### Page 120

EQUITY: TECHNOLOGY
GlobalWafers   6488.TWO 6488 TT
Global Markets Research
21 May 2026
Supply-demand dynamic continuously improving
Wafer demand and utilization rate are becoming more 
favorable; await further upward LTA price adjustment
Action: upgrade to Buy with and lift TP to TWD850; near-term profitability weakness 
not affecting new semi technology adoptions in 2027-28F 
GlobalWafers has been negatively impacted by weak semi wafer market demand and low 
profitability since 2H24 (link). However, in addition to regular semi wafer demand growth 
and customers’ capex expansion cycles driven by strong AI demand, we see a few 
catalysts driven by the adoption of new semi technology, including: 1) wafer-bonded 
NAND; 2) backside power delivery (BPD); and 3) emerging photonics SOI demand. 
Although GWC’s profitability remains at a low level and semi wafer prices are unlikely to 
be revised up immediately as existing LTAs have not all been renewed yet (mainly for big 
memory/logic customers), we expect semi wafer companies’ bargaining power to recover 
gradually with some spot price hikes by 10% HoH driven by small memory customers in 
2H26F. Hence, we upgrade GWC to Buy from Neutral and raise our TP to TWD850, 
based on 3.2x 2028F BVPS TWD265 (increased from previously 2.1x 2026F BVPS of 
TWD230 to factor in the potential upcycle in 2027-28F, where 3.2x was about the P/B 
multiple before GWC’s valuation plunged in 2H24). We expect GWC’s sales/net profit to 
post a 17%/36% CAGR in 2026-28F. The stock is trading at 2.4x 2027F BVPS.   
Wafer-bonded NAND, BPD, and photonics SOI demand are emerging in 2027F
Based on our assumptions, we expect 2027F to be the inflection point for wafer-bonded 
NAND, BPD, and photonics SOI demand. Wafer-bonded NAND demand is likely to be 
driven when non-YMTC players start adopting a similar technology, which requires 
additional logic wafer to be bonded onto memory wafer. For BPD, TSMC's A16 ramping at 
scale should also drive associated semi wafer, bonding, thinning, and CMP demand. Last, 
photonics SOI wafer is becoming an increasingly important material to build SiPh-based 
PIC, due to its scalability in most of major foundries with lower cost per die, with GWC one 
of major global SOI wafer suppliers. We expect these three emerging demand drivers will 
lead to additional 2-3pp demand growth annually over 2026-30F. 
Semi wafer supply/demand: supply tightness likely to be seen over 2027-28F
We expect 12” semi wafer demand to increase by around 10% per year from 2026F to 
2030F. If we assume most leading semi wafer companies reach their capacity limitation 
by around 2028F, then supply-demand should become more favorable in 2027-28F. 
Some further price hikes in the spot market could also be likely in 2H26F.

### Page 121

Key data on GlobalWafers

Performance
(%) 1M 3M 12M
Absolute (TWD) 37.6 59.4 114.5 M cap (USDmn) 10,760.1
Absolute (USD) 38.0 58.7 104.9 Free float (%) 27.5
Rel to Taiwan 
T
AIEX Index
25.5 36.9 25.0 3-mth ADT (USDmn) 118.6
Income statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec FY24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Revenue 62,626 60,598 61,159 71,372 83,460
Cost of goods sold -42,823 -45,974 -47,519 -53,753 -59,867
Gross profit 19,804 14,624 13,640 17,619 23,593
SG&A -3,365 -3,770 -3,533 -3,726 -4,173
Employee share 
expense
-2,320 -2,218 -2,178 -2,355 -2,668
Operating profit 14,119 8,636 7,929 11,537 16,752
EBITDA 18,987 13,797 13,451 17,396 22,827
Depreciation -4,829 -5,120 -5,478 -5,812 -6,026
Amortisation -39 -41 -44 -47 -48
EBIT 14,119 8,636 7,929 11,537 16,752
Net interest expense 2,489 1,124 2,130 2,341 2,891
Associates & JCEs 186 85 0 0 0
Other income -4,364 -329 431 0 0
Earnings before tax 12,429 9,516 10,490 13,879 19,644
Income tax -2,590 -2,205 -2,242 -3,053 -4,322
Net profit after tax 9,839 7,311 8,248 10,825 15,322
Minority interests 7 0 0 0 0
Other items 0 0 0 0 0
Preferred dividends 0 0 0 0 0
Normalised NPAT 9,847 7,311 8,248 10,825 15,322
Extraordinary items 0 0 0 0 0
Reported NPAT 9,847 7,311 8,248 10,825 15,322
Dividends -5,259 -3,290 -3,711 -4,871 -6,333
Transfer to reserves 4,588 4,021 4,536 5,954 8,989
Valuations and ratios
Reported P/E (x) 32.1 46.2 41.2 31.4 22.2
Normalised P/E (x) 32.1 46.2 41.2 31.4 22.2
FD normalised P/E (x) 32.4 46.2 41.2 31.4 22.2
Dividend yield (%) 1.5 1.0 1.1 1.6 2.0
Price/cashflow (x) 12.3 – 21.7 23.2 17.6
Price/book (x) 3.4 3.3 3.2 2.9 2.7
EV/EBITDA (x) 17.6 24.9 25.5 19.5 14.6
EV/EBIT (x) 23.6 39.7 43.3 29.4 19.9
Gross margin (%) 31.6 24.1 22.3 24.7 28.3
EBITDA margin (%) 30.3 22.8 22.0 24.4 27.4
EBIT margin (%) 22.5 14.3 13.0 16.2 20.1
Net margin (%) 15.7 12.1 13.5 15.2 18.4
Effective tax rate (%) 20.8 23.2 21.4 22.0 22.0
Dividend payout (%) 53.4 45.0 45.0 45.0 41.3
ROE (%) 12.5 7.9 8.6 10.6 13.9
ROA (pretax %) 8.2 4.5 4.0 5.7 8.0
Growth (%)
Revenue -11.4 -3.2 0.9 16.7 16.9
EBITDA -24.0 -27.3 -2.5 29.3 31.2
Normalised EPS -51.8 -30.6 12.3 31.3 41.5
Normalised FDEPS -51.8 -29.8 12.3 31.3 41.5
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Cashflow statement (TWDmn)
Year-end 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
EBITDA 18, 987 13,797 13,451 17,396 22,827
Change in working capital 11, 289 -28,021 1,872 -2,057 -2,115
Other operating cashflow -4, 298 -1,297 320 -712 -1,430
Cashflow from operations 25, 978 -15,521 15,643 14,627 19,281
Capital expenditure -48, 319 -33,130 -25,073 -21,035 -17,518
Free cashflow -22, 342 -48,650 -9,430 -6,408 1,764
Reduction in investments -6, 052 498 0 0 0
Net acquisitions 0 0 0 0 0
Dec in other LT assets 4, 302 39,845 15,672 13,508 8,809
Inc in other LT liabilities 0 0 0 0
Adjustments 0 0 0 0 0
CF after investing acts -24, 092 -8,307 6,242 7,101 10,573
Cash dividends -8, 748 -5,259 -3,290 -3,711 -4,871
Equity issue 0 0 0 0 0
Debt issue 9, 776 -11,511 0 0 0
Convertible debt issue 0 0 0 0 0
Others 35, 829 5,632 0 0 0
CF from financial acts 36, 857 -11,138 -3,291 -3,712 -4,871
Net cashflow 12, 765 -19,445 2,952 3,389 5,702
Beginning cash 26, 165 38,929 19,484 22,436 25,824
Ending cash 38, 929 19,484 22,436 25,824 31,526
Ending net debt -1, 282 6,652 3,700 312 -5,390
Balance sheet (TWDmn)
As at 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Cash & equivalents 38, 929 19,484 22,436 25,824 31,526
Marketable securities 29 1 0 0 0
Accounts receivable 10, 265 10,113 9,469 11,042 12,919
Inventories 11, 238 10,399 9,666 10,898 12,019
Other current assets 20, 030 46,632 46,632 46,632 46,632
Total current assets 80, 492 86,629 88,203 94,397 103,096
LT investments 7, 445 6,947 6,947 6,947 6,947
Fixed assets 119, 074 107,241 111,120 112,788 115,421
Goodwill 0 0 0 0 0
Other intangible assets 0 0 0 0 0
Other LT assets 17, 570 17,525 17,525 17,525 17,525
Total assets 224, 581 218,343 223,794 231,656 242,990
Short-term debt 27, 117 18,571 18,571 18,571 18,571
Accounts payable 5, 371 4,161 4,655 5,404 6,286
Other current liabilities 32, 577 31,377 31,377 31,377 31,377
Total current liabilities 65, 065 54,109 54,604 55,352 56,234
Long-term debt 10, 531 7,565 7,565 7,565 7,565
Convertible debt 0 0 0 0 0
Other LT liabilities 57, 958 63,374 63,374 63,374 63,374
Total liabilities 133, 553 125,048 125,543 126,291 127,173
Minority interest -3 -3 -3 -3 -3
Preferred stock 0 0 0 0 0
Common stock 4, 781 4,781 4,781 4,781 4,781
Retained earnings 31, 640 37,451 41,987 47,941 56,930
Proposed dividends 5, 259 3,290 3,711 4,871 6,333
Other equity and reserves 49, 350 47,776 47,776 47,776 47,776
Total shareholders' equity 91, 030 93,298 98,255 105,369 115,820
Total equity & liabilities 224, 580 218,342 223,794 231,656 242,990
Liquidity (x)
Current ratio 1. 24 1.60 1.62 1.71 1.83
Interest cover – – – – –
Leverage
Net debt/EBITDA (x) net  cash 0.48 0.28 0.02 net cash
Net debt/equity (%) net  cash 7.1 3.8 0.3 net cash
Per share
Reported EPS (TWD) 22. 14 15.36 17.25 22.64 32.05
Norm EPS (TWD) 22. 14 15.36 17.25 22.64 32.05
FD norm EPS (TWD) 21. 90 15.36 17.25 22.64 32.05
BVPS (TWD) 208. 19 213.37 224.71 240.98 264.88
DPS (TWD) 11. 00 6.88 7.76 11.14 14.48
Activity (days)
Days receivable 59. 4 61.4 58.4 52.4 52.5
Days inventory 87. 8 85.9 77.1 69.8 70.1
Days payable 44. 3 37.8 33.9 34.2 35.7
Cash cycle 102. 9 109.4 101.6 88.1 86.9
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
121

### Page 122

Company profile
GlobalWafers is the world’s third-largest and largest non-Japanese wafer manufacturer that specializing in 3” to 12” silicon wafer manufacturing,
possessing
a complete production line from ingot growth, slicing, etching, diffusion, polishing and epitaxy.
Valuation Methodology
Our TP of TWD850 is based on 3.2x 2028F BVPS TWD265. The 3.2x P/B is based on the lower-half of 2-6x P/B range during the full Semi wafer
cycle
in 2017-2020. The benchmark index is TAIEX.

Risks that may impede the achievement of the target price
Downside risks include: • Faster-than-expected entry of China into the 12” semi wafer market. • Slower-than-expected of market consolidation. •
W
orse-than-expected end-demand for the semi industry. • Less favorable demand/supply dynamics in the semi wafer industry. • Less favorable FX
volatility and rising material/utility costs.
ESG
In response to global climate change and latest development trends in corporate social responsibilities (CSR), GlobalWafers has taken the initiative

t
o compile a CSR report. Based on long-term in-depth interactions with local communities and engagement with stakeholders, GlobalWafers
discloses in the report relevant information on material issues regarding the four aspects of corporate governance, economy, environment, and
society, as well as execution & improvement results, in addition to presenting the the future vision and goals in terms of sustainable development.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21

May 2026
122

### Page 123

12” semi wafer supply demand could turn 
mo
re favorable sometime in 2027-28F
We expect there are five major drivers of 12” semi wafer demand over 2026-30F, 
including:
The regular 12” semi wafer market growing on an average at around 5% per year.•
Semi companies’ capacity expansion across leading foundries and memory makers, 
which could add another 2-3pp growth per year. This incremental growth was seen 
during the COVID period in 2020-22, when most of the semi companies added 
capacity to meet rising WFH demand.
•
Wafer-bonded NAND could add another 1-2pp growth per year, due to additional logic 
wafer that will be used.
•
The BPD process and photonics SOI demand could add another 0-1pp growth per 
year, purely driven by new technology adoption. 
•
As a result, it is possible that the 12” semi wafer demand could grow by around 10% each 
year from 2026 to 2030F. Assuming most of the leading semi wafer companies reach 
their capacity limitation by around 2028F, we expect supply-demand could turn more 
favorable sometime in 2027-28F. 
Fig. 196: 12” semi wafer market growth catalysts

Source: Nomura estimates

Fig. 197: 12” semi wafer supply demand trend

Source: Semi.org, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
123

### Page 124

E
arnings forecast revisions
We adjust our earnings model to factor in actual financial numbers for 2025. We expect a 
moderate revenue recovery in 2026F, but with more acceleration from 2H26F onwards, 
along with a more favorable supply-demand environment in 2027-28F. Profitability is still 
under pressure due to rising depreciation costs from new capacity expansion, but once 
market demand continues to grow, we believe price hike opportunity is also likely to 
increase.
Fig. 198: GWC: P&L

Source: Nomura estimates, company data

V
aluation methodology and risks
Our new TP of TWD850 is based on 3.2x 2026F BVPS of TWD265. The 3.2x target 
multiple is at the lower-half of the historical P/B range of 2-6x during the full semi wafer 
cycle in 2017-20.
Downside risks include:
• Faster-than-expected entry of China into the 12” semi wafer market.
• Slower-than-expected of market consolidation.
• Worse-than-expected end-demand for the semi industry.
• Less favorable demand/supply dynamics in the semi wafer industry.
• Less favorable FX volatility and rising material/utility costs.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 
 May 2026
124

### Page 125

Fig. 199: GWC: P/E

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates
Fig. 200: GWC: P/B vs ROE

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates

Fig. 201: Peer valuation comparison

Source: Nomura estimates and Bloomberg consensus as of 15 May 2026

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
125

### Page 126

EQUITY: BASIC MATERIALS
Hubei Dinglong   300054.SZ 300054 CH
Global Markets Research
21 May 2026
CMP scale-up and photoresist breakthrough
Pad share gains broaden; photoresist commercialization 
enters volume phase
CMP franchise scaling: pad capacity, slurry wins broaden runway
Dinglong delivered a robust 1Q26 with revenue of CNY1,020mn (+23.8% y-y) and net 
profit of CNY251mn (+78.0% y-y), driven by a step-change in the CMP (chemical 
mechanical polishing) consumables franchise. CMP pad sales reached CNY376mn 
(+71.2% y-y, +27.0% q-q), with monthly shipments breaking 40k pieces and capacity lifted 
to 50k/month by end-1Q26, in our view evidencing share gains at domestic foundries 
amid an industry-wide capacity build-out. CMP slurry and cleaner revenue jumped 54.2% 
y-y to CNY85mn, and we believe the May 7 wins in large-silicon-wafer fine slurry (12-inch 
single-crystal), ceria slurry at a leading domestic memory player, and TSV (through-silicon 
via) slurry at a leading advanced-packaging house unlock a domestic TAM (total 
addressable market) of over CNY1bn currently dominated by imports.
Photoresist inflecting: three SKUs in stable mass supply
High-end wafer photoresist remains the most strategically important option, in our view. 
Dinglong has built more than 30 immersion ArF (193nm) and KrF (248nm) SKUs, with 
over 20 sampled to clients and more than 12 in gallon-sample testing; three ArF/KrF 
products are already in stable mass supply, and management expects several more order 
conversions within 2026E. The Qianjiang Phase-1 30 tons/annum line is running smoothly 
and the Phase-2 300 tons/annum line is complete, providing capacity headroom we 
estimate at >5x current run-rate. We believe penetration will accelerate as domestic 
localization rates remain low at ~15% for KrF and only 2–3% for ArF, and as overseas’ 
potential tightening of exports in 2026–27F could create further price uplift window.
Reiterate Buy; TP raised to CNY104 on 96x 2026F P/E
We maintain our Buy rating and lift our TP to CNY104 (from CNY42), which reflects: 1) CMP 
pad shipments at record highs; 2) broadening of slurry pipelines; and 3) likely accelerated 
domestic photoresist substitution. We revise 2026F/27F earnings to CNY1,022mn/CNY1,312mn 
from CNY1,015mn/CNY1,322mn to reflect the improving margins, offset by growing 
depreciation. Our new TP is based on 96x 2026F P/E (vs previously 35x 2026F P/E), at +2.5x 
SD of its 5-year historical average, backed by a 33% earnings CAGR over 2025-28F. The 
stock is trading at 64x 2026F P/E. Risks: slower ramp-up of ArF/KrF order conversion; 
goodwill or integration risk from the lithium materials company acquisition.

### Page 127

Key data on Hubei Dinglong

Performance
(%) 1M 3M 12M
Absolute (CNY) 34.4 53.0 147.5 M cap (USDmn) 9,708.5
Absolute (USD) 34.7 55.3 162.2 Free float (%) 68.8
Rel to CSI 300 30.7 48.7 123.2 3-mth ADT (USDmn) 277.8
Income statement (CNYmn)
Year-end 31 Dec FY24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Revenue 3,338 3,660 4,514 5,728 6,983
Cost of goods sold -1,773 -1,799 -2,134 -2,666 -3,197
Gross profit 1,565 1,861 2,380 3,062 3,786
SG&A -890 -971 -1,178 -1,483 -1,795
Employee share 
expense
Operating profit 674 890 1,202 1,578 1,992
EBITDA 918 1,172 1,490 1,896 2,334
Depreciation -192 -226 -236 -274 -306
Amortisation -51 -55 -52 -43 -36
EBIT 674 890 1,202 1,578 1,992
Net interest expense -12 -50 -95 -121 -147
Associates & JCEs
Other income 53 65 100 125 150
Earnings before tax 715 905 1,207 1,582 1,994
Income tax -76 -110 -145 -190 -239
Net profit after tax 639 796 1,062 1,392 1,755
Minority interests -118 -75 -40 -80 -80
Other items
Preferred dividends
Normalised NPAT 521 720 1,022 1,312 1,675
Extraordinary items
Reported NPAT 521 720 1,022 1,312 1,675
Dividends
Transfer to reserves 521 720 1,022 1,312 1,675
Valuations and ratios
Reported P/E (x) 126.0 91.1 64.3 50.3 39.4
Normalised P/E (x) 126.0 91.1 64.3 50.3 39.4
FD normalised P/E (x) 126.0 91.1 64.3 50.3 39.4
Dividend yield (%) – – – – –
Price/cashflow (x) 79.2 56.7 42.8 33.5 26.3
Price/book (x) 13.5 11.9 9.2 7.0 5.4
EV/EBITDA (x) 72.0 56.8 44.3 34.3 27.2
EV/EBIT (x) 98.0 74.8 54.9 41.2 31.9
Gross margin (%) 46.9 50.9 52.7 53.5 54.2
EBITDA margin (%) 27.5 32.0 33.0 33.1 33.4
EBIT margin (%) 20.2 24.3 26.6 27.6 28.5
Net margin (%) 15.6 19.7 22.6 22.9 24.0
Effective tax rate (%) 10.7 12.1 12.0 12.0 12.0
Dividend payout (%) 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0 0.0
ROE (%) 10.7 13.9 16.1 15.8 15.4
ROA (pretax %) 11.3 12.8 14.8 16.6 18.0
Growth (%)
Revenue 25.1 9.7 23.3 26.9 21.9
EBITDA 98.0 27.7 27.2 27.2 23.1
Normalised EPS 133.3 38.3 41.8 27.8 27.6
Normalised FDEPS 133.3 38.3 41.8 27.8 27.6
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Cashflow statement (CNYmn)
Year-end 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
EBITDA 918 1,172 1,490 1,896 2,334
Change in working capital -203 -431 -326 -505 -515
Other operating cashflow 114 416 369 578 694
Cashflow from operations 828 1,157 1,533 1,968 2,512
Capital expenditure -769 -775 -780 -740 -700
Free cashflow 60 381 753 1,228 1,812
Reduction in investments 0 0 0 0
Net acquisitions
Dec in other LT assets -332 -270 -417 -431
Inc in other LT liabilities 95 0 0 0
Adjustments -302 -647 270 417 431
CF after investing acts -243 -503 753 1,228 1,812
Cash dividends -80 -143 -204 -262 -335
Equity issue 9 176 0 0 0
Debt issue 414 1,001 0 0 0
Convertible debt issue
Others -182 -13 0 0 0
CF from financial acts 161 1,021 -204 -262 -335
Net cashflow -82 517 549 966 1,477
Beginning cash 1, 120 1,038 1,555 2,104 3,070
Ending cash 1, 038 1,555 2,104 3,070 4,547
Ending net debt 303 496 -52 -1,018 -2,495
Balance sheet (CNYmn)
As at 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Cash & equivalents 1, 038 1,555 2,104 3,070 4,547
Marketable securities
Accounts receivable 1, 070 1,018 1,232 1,564 1,906
Inventories 563 654 781 980 1,169
Other current assets 274 589 713 904 1,103
Total current assets 2, 944 3,815 4,829 6,517 8,725
LT investments
Fixed assets 2, 639 3,133 3,677 4,143 4,537
Goodwill 537 537 537 537 537
Other intangible assets 327 299 247 204 168
Other LT assets 948 1,281 1,550 1,967 2,399
Total assets 7, 395 9,066 10,841 13,368 16,365
Short-term debt 402 226 226 226 226
Accounts payable 356 359 429 538 642
Other current liabilities 699 619 689 796 907
Total current liabilities 1, 457 1,205 1,344 1,561 1,776
Long-term debt 637 1,825 1,825 1,825 1,825
Convertible debt
Other LT liabilities 426 521 521 521 521
Total liabilities 2, 520 3,551 3,690 3,907 4,122
Minority interest
Preferred stock
Common stock 938 947 947 947 947
Retained earnings 2, 094 2,719 3,537 4,587 5,926
Proposed dividends
Other equity and reserves 1, 843 1,849 2,667 3,928 5,370
Total shareholders' equity 4, 875 5,515 7,151 9,462 12,244
Total equity & liabilities 7, 395 9,066 10,841 13,368 16,365
Liquidity (x)
Current ratio 2. 02 3.17 3.59 4.18 4.91
Interest cover 57. 2 17.9 12.6 13.1 13.5
Leverage
Net debt/EBITDA (x) 0. 33 0.42 net cash net cash net cash
Net debt/equity (%) 6. 2 9.0 net cash net cash net cash
Per share
Reported EPS (CNY) 55. 29c 76.48c 1.08 1.39 1.77
Norm EPS (CNY) 55. 29c 76.48c 1.08 1.39 1.77
FD norm EPS (CNY) 55. 29c 76.48c 1.08 1.39 1.77
BVPS (CNY) 5. 18 5.85 7.55 9.99 12.92
DPS (CNY) 0. 00 0.00 0.00 0.00 0.00
Activity (days)
Days receivable 117. 0 104.1 91.0 89.1 90.9
Days inventory 115. 9 123.4 122.7 120.5 123.0
Days payable 73. 3 72.5 67.4 66.2 67.6
Cash cycle 159. 6 155.0 146.3 143.4 146.4
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
127

### Page 128

Company profile
Hubei Dinglong is a photoelectric and semiconductor new materials and general print consumables manufacturer and supplier. Dinglong is the first
Chinese
listed company in the printing consumables field and has become a leading printing consumables producer that covers the entire industry
supply chain through a series of mergers and acquisitions. Dinglong has actively expanded its business scale to IC and related processing
materials, including CMP pads, CMP cleaning fluid, OLED flexible displays, etc.

Valuation Methodology
We use P/E methodology to value Dinglong. Our TP of CNY104 is based on 96x 2026F EPS of CNY1.08, at +2.5x SD of its 5-year historical
average
P/E of 51x. The target P/E is well supported by our 2025-28F earnings CAGR of 33%. The benchmark index is CSI300.
Risks that may impede the achievement of the target price
Downside risks include 1)  main customers’ production ramps are slower than expectation; 2)slower ramp-up of ArF/KrF order conversion; 3)

goodwill
or integration risk from the lithium materials acquisition.
ESG
Hubei Dinglong fits the ESG theme since it offers printing consumables and semiconductor materials business, while the firm's recycled ink
cart
ridges business (under the printing consumables) recycles wasted ink cartridges, renews some parts, and produces cartiridges meeting industry
standards for consumers.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
128

### Page 129

Fig. 202: Dinglong – forward P/E band

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura research
Fig. 203: Dinglong – forward P/E with -2/+2 SD

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura research

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
129

### Page 130

EQUITY: BASIC MATERIALS
Anji Microelectronics Technology   688019.SS 688019 CH
Global Markets Research
21 May 2026
Buy on GPM recovery and sub-10nm node
Strategic thrust in sub-10nm advanced nodes and raw-
material self-sufficiency support solid gross margins
Advanced-nodes open an incremental total addressable market
We estimate China's CMP slurry market will scale to CNY10.5bn by 2028F, with growth 
concentrated in sub-10nm logic nodes, CoWoS advanced packaging, and high-layer 3D 
NAND/HBM — where Anji is positioned as a long-term beneficiary, in our view. Copper 
and copper-barrier slurries at a key client have already shifted from qualification to scaled 
mass production, while 7nm cobalt-interconnect slurry is advancing into customer 
qualification from a lead fab into a follow-on site – a greenfield category with no 
Cabot/DuPont (CBT US, Not rated)/(DD US, Not rated) benchmark. Advanced packaging 
alone adds 20% to CMP slurry demand, and Anji also anchors the broader memory 
portfolio. A better mix might have pushed its slurry gross margin to 55-58% in 2025 (vs. 
52–55% at peers), and should continue to lift profitability as advanced-node revenue 
outpaces that of mature nodes.
One client’s W2W likely pivot multiple CMP steps
In addition to the sub-10nm advanced nodes development and continued raw-materials self-
sufficiency, a client of Anji has been running large-scale hybrid-bonding pilots since mid-2025, 
pursuing an accelerated 3D DRAM roadmap that aims to narrow the gap with overseas peers, 
based on our industry checks. Rather than following its peers’ SoIC-style (System on Integrated 
Chips) die-to-die (D2D) stacking route, the client has opted for a wafer-to-wafer (W2W) hybrid-
bonding path — conceptually closer to a packaging-level 3D DRAM via multi-die stacking — 
seeking a non-physical-layer breakthrough through wafer/adhesive engineering that increases 
CMP step count, particularly pre- and post-bonding planarisation at the wafer level.
Maintain Buy on sub-10nm leadership and continued in-house abrasives
We maintain our Buy rating on Anji and lift TP to CNY360 (from CNY320). The new TP is 
based on 42x 2027F P/E (previously 50x 2026F P/E), which reflects: i) incremental pull-ins 
from growing CMP step count; ii) advanced-node exposure; and iii) ongoing in-house 
abrasives supporting 55-58% gross margin in 2026-28F. We raise 2026F EPS to CNY6.51 
from CNY6.39 to reflect the likely gross margin recovery since 2Q26F. The stock trades at 33x 
2027F P/E. Risks: ultra-high-purity silica sol remains Fuso (4368 JP, Not rated) dependent, 
rising competition from Dinglong (300054 CH), and fab-led vertical integration.

### Page 131

Key data on Anji Microelectronics Technology

Performance
(%) 1M 3M 12M
Absolute (CNY) 9.9 4.5 101.6 M cap (USDmn) 7,118.6
Absolute (USD) 10.1 6.1 113.5 Free float (%) 47.8
Rel to CSI 300 6.2 0.2 77.2 3-mth ADT (USDmn) 145.3
Income statement (CNYmn)
Year-end 31 Dec FY24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Revenue 1,835 2,504 3,310 4,137 4,965
Cost of goods sold -762 -1,084 -1,434 -1,764 -2,102
Gross profit 1,073 1,420 1,875 2,373 2,863
SG&A -515 -621 -796 -1,007 -1,208
Employee share 
expense
Operating profit 558 799 1,079 1,367 1,655
EBITDA 715 992 1,309 1,642 1,975
Depreciation -157 -193 -230 -275 -320
Amortisation
EBIT 558 799 1,079 1,367 1,655
Net interest expense -29 10 33 21 25
Associates & JCEs
Other income 39 40 77 175 210
Earnings before tax 568 849 1,190 1,562 1,889
Income tax -34 -65 -93 -125 -151
Net profit after tax 534 784 1,097 1,437 1,738
Minority interests 0 0 0 0 0
Other items
Preferred dividends
Normalised NPAT 534 784 1,097 1,437 1,738
Extraordinary items
Reported NPAT 534 784 1,097 1,437 1,738
Dividends -58 -88 -123 -160 -194
Transfer to reserves 476 696 975 1,277 1,544
Valuations and ratios
Reported P/E (x) 66.9 59.5 42.5 32.5 26.8
Normalised P/E (x) 66.9 59.5 42.5 32.5 26.8
FD normalised P/E (x) 66.9 59.5 42.5 32.5 26.8
Dividend yield (%) 0.1 0.2 0.3 0.3 0.4
Price/cashflow (x) 72.3 106.1 82.9 47.4 34.2
Price/book (x) 17.3 13.2 11.0 8.8 6.9
EV/EBITDA (x) 66.8 48.2 36.5 28.9 23.7
EV/EBIT (x) 85.7 59.8 44.3 34.7 28.3
Gross margin (%) 58.5 56.7 56.7 57.4 57.7
EBITDA margin (%) 39.0 39.6 39.6 39.7 39.8
EBIT margin (%) 30.4 31.9 32.6 33.0 33.3
Net margin (%) 29.1 31.3 33.1 34.7 35.0
Effective tax rate (%) 6.0 7.7 7.8 8.0 8.0
Dividend payout (%) 10.9 11.2 11.2 11.2 11.2
ROE (%) 22.1 25.1 28.2 30.0 28.9
ROA (pretax %) 24.1 26.8 27.9 28.7 29.3
Growth (%)
Revenue 36.5 32.2 25.0 20.0
EBITDA 38.7 32.0 25.4 20.3
Normalised EPS 12.3 40.0 31.0 21.0
Normalised FDEPS 12.3 40.0 31.0 21.0
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Cashflow statement (CNYmn)
Year-end 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
EBITDA 715 992 1,309 1,642 1,975
Change in working capital -238 -570 -396 -381 -369
Other operating cashflow 17 18 -351 -275 -242
Cashflow from operations 493 440 563 985 1,364
Capital expenditure -267 -355 -400 -450 -480
Free cashflow 226 84 163 535 884
Reduction in investments 0 0 0 0
Net acquisitions
Dec in other LT assets -90 -244 -250 -250
Inc in other LT liabilities 29 64 66 66
Adjustments -84 -315 80 105 125
CF after investing acts 142 -292 63 455 824
Cash dividends -58 -88 -123 -160 -194
Equity issue 28 857 0 0 0
Debt issue 173 -135 0 0 0
Convertible debt issue
Others -20 381 35 45 55
CF from financial acts 123 1,015 -88 -115 -139
Net cashflow 265 724 -25 340 685
Beginning cash 633 898 1,621 1,596 1,936
Ending cash 898 1,621 1,596 1,936 2,621
Ending net debt -653 -655 -630 -970 -1,655
Balance sheet (CNYmn)
As at 31 Dec F Y24 FY25 FY26F FY27F FY28F
Cash & equivalents 898 1,621 1,596 1,936 2,621
Marketable securities
Accounts receivable 393 552 725 907 1,088
Inventories 618 1,050 1,336 1,595 1,843
Other current assets 118 103 136 170 204
Total current assets 2, 026 3,326 3,794 4,608 5,756
LT investments
Fixed assets 679 881 1,051 1,226 1,386
Goodwill
Other intangible assets 79 74 71 67 64
Other LT assets 668 757 1,001 1,251 1,501
Total assets 3, 452 5,038 5,916 7,152 8,707
Short-term debt 130 146 146 146 146
Accounts payable 143 183 244 300 357
Other current liabilities 193 160 196 233 270
Total current liabilities 467 488 586 679 773
Long-term debt 114 821 821 821 821
Convertible debt
Other LT liabilities 170 198 262 328 393
Total liabilities 751 1,507 1,668 1,827 1,987
Minority interest
Preferred stock
Common stock 1, 198 1,271 1,271 1,271 1,271
Retained earnings 1, 523 2,249 3,258 4,580 6,179
Proposed dividends
Other equity and reserves -19 11 -281 -526 -730
Total shareholders' equity 2, 701 3,531 4,248 5,325 6,720
Total equity & liabilities 3, 452 5,038 5,916 7,152 8,707
Liquidity (x)
Current ratio 4. 34 6.81 6.48 6.79 7.45
Interest cover 19. 4 – – – –
Leverage
Net debt/EBITDA (x) net  cash net cash net cash net cash net cash
Net debt/equity (%) net  cash net cash net cash net cash net cash
Per share
Reported EPS (CNY) 4. 14 4.65 6.51 8.52 10.31
Norm EPS (CNY) 4. 14 4.65 6.51 8.52 10.31
FD norm EPS (CNY) 4. 14 4.65 6.51 8.52 10.31
BVPS (CNY) 16. 02 20.95 25.20 31.59 39.87
DPS (CNY) 0. 34 0.52 0.73 0.95 1.15
Activity (days)
Days receivable 78. 1 68.9 70.4 72.0 73.5
Days inventory 295. 7 280.7 303.5 303.2 299.3
Days payable 68. 6 54.9 54.2 56.2 57.2
Cash cycle 305. 2 294.7 319.8 319.0 315.7
Source: Company data, Nomura estimates
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
131

### Page 132

Company profile
Anji Microelectronics Technology (Anji), founded in 2004, is a semiconductor materials company that engages in R&D, manufacturing, selling and
t
echnology services. The company focuses on the R&D and commercialization of key semiconductor materials, and its main products include
chemical mechanical planarization (CMP) slurry and photoresist solvent, which are applied in integrated circuit (IC) chips manufacturing and
advanced encapsulation.

Valuation Methodology
We use P/E methodology to value Anji Microelectronics Technology. Our TP of CNY360 is based on 42x 2027F P/E, +2x SD of its historical average
P
/E at 26x. The target P/E is well supported by our 2025-28F earnings CAGR of 25%. The benchmark index is CSI300.
Risks that may impede the achievement of the target price
Downside risks include: 1) lackluster demand from key clients, 2) delayed expansion plans from key clients.
ESG
Anji Microelectronics Technology fits the ESG theme, as: 1) the company continues to invest in energy saving and waste recycling; and 2) obtained

t
he Responsible Business Alliance (RBA) certificate in 2018, while issued RBA management booklet.
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
132

### Page 133

Fig. 204: Anji – forward P/E band

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates
Fig. 205: Anji – forward P/E with -2/+2x SD

Source: Bloomberg Finance L.P., Nomura estimates

Nomura | Greater China Semi 21 May 2026
133

### Page 134

Appendix A-1 
T
his report has been produced by Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd. (NIHK), Hong Kong.
See Disclaimers for Nomura Group entity details.
An
alyst Certification 
We, Donnie Teng and Frank Fan, hereby certify (1) that the views expressed in this Research report accurately reflect our personal views about 
any or all of the subject securities or issuers referred to in this Research report, (2) no part of our compensation was, is or will be directly or 
indirectly related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this Research report and (3) no part of our compensation is tied to any 
specific investment banking transactions performed by Nomura Securities International, Inc., Nomura International plc or any other Nomura 
Group company.

Rati
ng and target price changes

### Page 135

Nomura Global Financial Products Inc. (NGFP) Nomura Derivative Products Inc. (NDP) and Nomura International plc. (NIplc) are registered with 
t
he Commodities Futures Trading Commission and the National Futures Association (NFA) as swap dealers. NGFP, NDPI, and NIplc are 
generally engaged in the trading of swaps and other derivative products, any of which may be the subject of this report.

Definition of Nomura Group's equity research rating system and sectors
T
he rating system is a relative system, indicating expected performance against a specific benchmark identified for each individual stock, 
subject to limited management discretion. An analyst’s target price is an assessment of the current intrinsic fair value of the stock based on an 
appropriate valuation methodology determined by the analyst. Valuation methodologies include, but are not limited to, discounted cash flow 
analysis, expected return on equity and multiple analysis. Analysts may also indicate expected absolute upside/downside relative to the stated 
target price, defined as (target price - current price)/current price.

SECTORS
A ' Bullish' stance, indicates that the analyst expects the sector to outperform the Benchmark during the next 12 months. A 'Neutral' stance, 
indicates that the analyst expects the sector to perform in line with the Benchmark during the next 12 months. A 'Bearish' stance, indicates that 
the analyst expects the sector to underperform the Benchmark during the next 12 months. Sectors that are labelled as 'Not rated' or shown as 
'N/A' are not assigned ratings. Benchmarks are as follows: United States: S&P 500; Europe: Dow Jones STOXX 600; Global Emerging 
Markets (ex-Asia): MSCI Emerging Markets ex-Asia. Japan/Asia ex-Japan: Sector ratings are not assigned.

Target Price
A
 Target Price, if discussed, indicates the analyst’s forecast for the share price with a 12-month time horizon, reflecting in part the analyst's 
estimates for the company's earnings. The achievement of any target price may be impeded by general market and macroeconomic trends, and 
by other risks related to the company or the market, and may not occur if the company's earnings differ from estimates.

### Page 136

This publication contains material that has been prepared by the Nomura Group entity identified on page 1 and, if applicable, with the
cont
ributions of one or more Nomura Group entities whose employees and their respective affiliations are specified on page 1 or identified
elsewhere in this publication. The term "Nomura Group" used herein refers to Nomura Holdings, Inc. and its affiliates and subsidiaries including:
(a) Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. ('NSC') Tokyo, Japan, (b) Nomura Financial Products Europe GmbH (‘NFPE’), Germany, (c) Nomura

International plc ('NIplc'), UK, (d) Nomura Securities International, Inc. ('NSI'), New York, US, (e) Nomura International (Hong Kong) Ltd.
(‘NIHK’), Hong Kong, (f) Nomura Financial Investment (Korea) Co., Ltd. (‘NFIK’), Korea (Information on Nomura analysts registered with the
Korea Financial Investment Association ('KOFIA') can be found on the KOFIA Intranet at http://dis.kofia.or.kr
, (g) Nomura Singapore Ltd. (‘NSL’),
S
ingapore (Registration number 197201440E, regulated by the Monetary Authority of Singapore) (h) Nomura Australia Ltd. (‘NAL’), Australia

licence number 246412, (i) Nomura Securities Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. (‘NSM’), Malaysia, (j) NIHK, Taipei Branch (‘NITB’), Taiwan, (k) Nomura
Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Private Limited (‘NFASL’), Mumbai, India (Registered Address: Ceejay House, Level 11, Plot F,
Shivsagar Estate, Dr. Annie Besant Road, Worli, Mumbai- 400 018, India; Tel: 91 22 4037 4037, Fax: 91 22 4037 4111; CIN No:
U74140MH2007PTC169116, SEBI Registration No. for Stock Broking activities : INZ000255633; SEBI Registration No. for Merchant Banking :

INM000011419; SEBI Registration No. for Research: INH000001014 - Compliance Officer: Ms. Pratiksha Tondwalkar, 91 22 40374904,
grievance email:  investorgrievancesra@nomura.com
Webpage:  LINK
For reports with respect to Indian public companies or authored by India-based NFASL research analysts: (i)
I
nvestment in securities markets is subject to market risks. Read all the related documents carefully before
investing. (ii) Registration granted by SEBI, and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the

intermediary or provide any assurance of returns to investors. (iii) NFASL terms and conditions for availing
research services is disclosed on NFASL webpage.
(l) Nomura Fiduciary Research & Consulting Co., Ltd. ('NFRC') Tokyo, Japan.  (m) Nomura Orient International Securities Co., Ltd (“NOI”), is a
majority owned joint venture amongst Nomura Group, Orient International (Holding) Co., Ltd, and Shanghai Huangpu Investment Holding
(Group) Co., Ltd. In accordance with the laws of the People’s Republic of China (“PRC”, excluding Hong Kong, Macau and Taiwan, for the

purpose of this document), NOI is licensed in the PRC to provide securities research and investment recommendations and it operates
independently from the other members of the Nomura Group; in particular, NOI’s interests in PRC securities are not disclosed to, or aggregated
with the holdings of, any other Nomura Group entities and the interests in PRC securities of other Nomura Group entities are not disclosed to, or
aggregated with the holdings of, NOI.  An individual name printed next to NOI on the front page of a research report indicates that individual is

employed by NOI to provide research assistance to NIHK under a research partnership agreement. ‘NSFSPL’ next to an employee’s name on
the front page of a research report indicates that the individual is employed by Nomura Structured Finance Services Private Limited to provide
assistance to certain Nomura entities under inter-company agreements. 'Verdhana' next to an individual's name on the front page of a research
report indicates that the individual is employed by PT Verdhana Sekuritas Indonesia ('Verdhana') to provide research assistance to NIHK under

document is fair, accurate, complete, correct, reliable or fit for any particular purpose or merchantable, and to the maximum extent permissible
by law and/or regulation, does not accept liability (in negligence or otherwise, and in whole or in part) for any act (or decision not to act) resulting
from use of this document and related data. To the maximum extent permissible by law and/or regulation, all warranties and other assurances
by the Nomura Group are hereby excluded and the Nomura Group shall have no liability (in negligence or otherwise, and in whole or in part) for

obligation, and therefore is under no duty, to update or revise this document. Any comments or statements made herein are those of the
author(s) and may differ from views held by other parties within Nomura Group. Clients should consider whether any advice or recommendation
in this report is suitable for their particular circumstances and, if appropriate, seek professional advice, including tax advice. The Nomura Group
does not provide tax advice.

The Nomura Group, and/or its officers, directors, employees and affiliates, may, to the extent permitted by applicable law and/or regulation, deal
as principal, agent, or otherwise, or have long or short positions in, or buy or sell, the securities, commodities or instruments, or options or other
derivative instruments based thereon, of issuers or securities mentioned herein. The Nomura Group companies may also act as market maker
or liquidity provider (within the meaning of applicable regulations in the UK) in the financial instruments of the issuer. Where the activity of

This document may contain information obtained from third parties, including, but not limited to, ratings from credit ratings agencies such as
Standard & Poor’s. The Nomura Group hereby expressly disclaims all representations, warranties or undertakings of originality, fairness,
accuracy, completeness, correctness, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose with respect to any of the information obtained from
third parties contained in this material or otherwise arising in connection therewith, and shall not be liable (in negligence or otherwise, and in

whole or in part) for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs, expenses,
legal fees, or losses (including lost income or profits and opportunity costs) in connection with any use or misuse of any of the information
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
136

### Page 137

obtained from third parties contained in this material or otherwise arising in connection therewith. Reproduction and distribution of third-party
cont
ent in any form is prohibited except with the prior written permission of the related third-party. Third-party content providers do not, express
or implied, guarantee the fairness, accuracy, completeness, correctness, timeliness or availability of any information, including ratings, and are
not in any way responsible for any errors or omissions (negligent or otherwise), regardless of the cause, or for the results obtained from the use

whole or in part) for any direct, indirect, incidental, exemplary, compensatory, punitive, special or consequential damages, costs, expenses,
legal fees, or losses (including lost income or profits and opportunity costs) in connection with any use or misuse of their content, including
ratings. Credit ratings are statements of opinions and are not statements of fact or recommendations to purchase hold or sell securities. They do
not address the suitability of securities or the suitability of securities for investment purposes, and should not be relied on as investment advice.

Any MSCI sourced information in this document is the exclusive property of MSCI Inc. (‘MSCI’). Without prior written permission of MSCI, this
information and any other MSCI intellectual property may not be duplicated, reproduced, re-disseminated, redistributed or used, in whole or in
part, for any purpose whatsoever, including creating any financial products and any indices. This information is provided on an "as is" basis. The
user assumes the entire risk of any use made of this information. MSCI, its affiliates and any third party involved in, or related to, computing or

compiling the information hereby expressly disclaim all representations, warranties or undertakings of originality, fairness, accuracy,
completeness, correctness, merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose with respect to any of this material or the information contained in
this material or otherwise arising in connection therewith. Without limiting any of the foregoing, in no event shall MSCI, any of its affiliates or any
third party involved in, or related to, computing or compiling the information have any liability (in negligence or otherwise, and in whole or in part)

for any damages of any kind. MSCI and the MSCI indexes are services marks of MSCI and its affiliates.
The intellectual property rights and any other rights, in Russell/Nomura Japan Equity Index belong to Nomura Fiduciary Research & Consulting
Co., Ltd. ("NFRC") and FTSE Russell ("Russell"). NFRC and Russell do not guarantee fairness, accuracy, completeness, correctness, reliability,
usefulness, marketability, merchantability or fitness of the Index, and do not account for business activities or services that any index user

and/or its affiliates undertakes with the use of the Index.
Investors should consider this document as only a single factor in making their investment decision and, as such, the report should not be
viewed as identifying or suggesting all risks, direct or indirect, that may be associated with any investment decision. Nomura Group produces a
number of different types of research product including, among others, fundamental analysis and quantitative analysis; recommendations

contained in one type of research product may differ from recommendations contained in other types of research product, whether as a result of
differing time horizons, methodologies or otherwise. The Nomura Group publishes research product in a number of different ways including the
posting of product on the Nomura Group portals and/or distribution directly to clients. Different groups of clients may receive different products
and services from the research department depending on their individual requirements.

Figures presented herein may refer to past performance or simulations based on past performance which are not reliable indicators of future or
likely performance. Where the information contains an expectation, projection or indication of future performance and business prospects, such
forecasts may not be a reliable indicator of future or likely performance. Moreover, simulations are based on models and simplifying
assumptions which may oversimplify and not reflect the future distribution of returns. Any figure, strategy or index created and published for

illustrative purposes within this document is not intended for “use” as a “benchmark” as defined by the European Benchmark Regulation.
Certain securities are subject to fluctuations in exchange rates that could have an adverse effect on the value or price of, or income derived
from, the investment.
With respect to Fixed Income Research: Recommendations fall into two categories: tactical, which typically last up to three months; or strategic,
which typically last from 6-12 months. However, trade recommendations may be reviewed at any time as circumstances change. ‘Stop loss’

levels for trades are also provided; which, if hit, closes the trade recommendation automatically. Prices and yields shown in recommendations
are taken at the time of submission for publication and are based on either indicative Bloomberg, LSEG or Nomura prices and yields at that
time. The prices and yields shown are not necessarily those at which the trade recommendation can be implemented.
The securities described herein may not have been registered under the US Securities Act of 1933 (the ‘1933 Act’), and, in such case, may not

be offered or sold in the US or to US persons unless they have been registered under the 1933 Act, or except in compliance with an exemption
from the registration requirements of the 1933 Act. Unless governing law permits otherwise, any transaction should be executed via a Nomura
entity in your home jurisdiction.
This document has been approved for distribution in the UK as investment research by NIplc. NIplc is authorised by the Prudential Regulation

Exchange. This document does not constitute a personal recommendation within the meaning of applicable regulations in the UK, or take into
account the particular investment objectives, financial situations, or needs of individual investors. This document is intended only for investors
who are 'eligible counterparties' or 'professional clients' for the purposes of applicable regulations in the UK, and may not, therefore, be
redistributed to persons who are 'retail clients' for such purposes.

affiliates pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. This document is intended for accredited,
Nomura | Greater China Semi 21
May 2026
137

### Page 139

Nomura Asian Equity Research Group

Hong Kong Nomura International (Hong Kong) Limited 
30/F Two International Finance Centre, 8 Finance Street, Central, Hong Kong 
Tel: +852 2536 1111 Fax: +852 2536 1820 
Singapore

Nomura Singapore Limited 
10 Marina Boulevard Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 2, #36-01,  
Singapore 018983, Singapore 
Tel: +65 6433 6288 Fax: +65 6433 6169 
Taipei Nomura International (Hong Kong) Limited, Taipei Branch 
17th Floor, Walsin Lihwa Xinyi Building, No.1, Songzhi Road, Taipei 11047, Taiwan, R.O.C. 
Tel: +886 2 2176 9999 Fax: +886 2 2176 9900 
Seoul Nomura Financial Investment (Korea) Co., Ltd. 
17th floor, Seoul Finance Center, 136, Sejong-daero, Jung-gu, Seoul 04520, Korea 
Tel: +82 2 3783 2000 Fax: +82 2 3783 2500 
Kuala Lumpur Nomura Securities Malaysia Sdn. Bhd. 
Suite No 16.5, Level 16, Menara IMC, 8 Jalan Sultan Ismail, 50250 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
Tel: +60 3 2027 6811 Fax: +60 3 2027 6888 
India Nomura Financial Advisory and Securities (India) Private Limited 
Ceejay House, Level 11, Plot F, Shivsagar Estate, Dr. Annie Besant Road, 
Worli, Mumbai- 400 018, India 
Tel: +91 22 4037 4037 Fax: +91 22 4037 4111 
Indonesia PT Nomura Sekuritas Indonesia 
Suite 209A, 9th Floor, Sentral Senayan II Building 
Jl. Asia Afrika No. 8, Gelora Bung Karno, Jakarta 10270, Indonesia  
Tel: +62 21 2991 3300 Fax: +62 21 2991 3333 
Sydney Nomura Australia Ltd. 
Level 25, Governor Phillip Tower, 1 Farrer Place, Sydney NSW 2000 
Tel: +61 2 8062 8000 Fax: +61 2 8062 8362 
Tokyo Equity Research Department 
Financial & Economic Research Center 
Nomura Securities Co., Ltd. 
17/F Urbannet Building, 2-2, Otemachi 2-chome Chiyoda-ku, Tokyo 100-8130, Japan  
Tel: +81 3 5255 1658 Fax: +81 3 5255 1747, 3272 0869 
Caring for the environment: to receive only the electronic versions of our research, please contact your sales representative .
