# Financial Report Source 13

NotebookLM import text with Markdown headings for each report, source PDF, and page boundary.

---
## Document 017: 2026年4～6月期のGDP（2次速報）結果

Source PDF: all report pdf/2026年4～6月期のGDP（2次速報）結果.pdf
Report source: MURC
Date: 2026-09-08
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1 / 2

2026 年 9 月 8 日

調査レポート

2026 年 4～6 月期の GDP（2 次速報）結果

～1 次速報から小幅上方修正されたが、景気の評価に変更なし～

調査部 主任研究員 藤田隼平

2026 年 9 月 8 日に内閣府が公表した 4～6 月期の実質 GDP（2 次速報値）は、前期比＋0.4%（年率換算   
＋1.4%）と、8 月に公表された 1 次速報値の同＋0.3%（同換算＋1.1%）から小幅ながら上方修正された。緩やか
な景気回復が続いているとの評価に変わりはなく、米国とイランの対立が逆風となったが、政府の物価高対策や
代替調達の進展などが下支えとなったこともあり、当初懸念されたような物価高や供給制約が景気全体を下押し
する事態は回避された。 
実質 GDP の需要項目別に 1 次速報からの 主な修正状況をみると、 まず個人消費が前期比－0.0% から   
＋0.0%に小幅に上方修正された。他方、 住宅投資は前期比－0.5%から同－0.6%に小幅に下方修正された。
企業部門では、財務省「法人企業統計」において季節調整済みの設備投資（ソフトウェアを含む・名目）が前期比
＋1.5%と増加したことから、GDP 統計の設備投資も前期比－1.2%から同－0.9%に上方修正された。民間在庫
は前回からほとんど変わらなかった。また、政府部門では、政府最終消費が前期比＋1.6%から同＋1.7%へ小幅
に上方修正された一方、公共投資は同－0.1%から同－0.5%へ下方修正された。なお、輸出、輸入ともに小幅に
下方修正されたが、外需寄与度に大きな修正はなかった。

（注）内需寄与度、民間在庫、外需寄与度は実質 GDP に対する寄与度（%ポイント） 
（出所）内閣府「四半期別 GDP 速報」  
前期比(%)
1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6
実質GDP 0.5 0.1 － 0.4 0.3 0.5 0.4 0.3 0.1
同 　   (年  率) 2.0 0.5 － 1.5 1.1 1.9 1.4 1.1 0.3
同　    (前年同期比) 1.6 2.0 0.6 0.4 0.6 0.9 0.7 0.2
内需寄与度　　　　　 (*) 1.1 0.2 － 0.2 0.2 0.2 － 0.1 － 0.2 0.1
個人消費 0.6 0.1 0.6 0.2 0.4 0.0 － 0.0 0.0
住宅投資 － 0.5 0.6 － 7.9 5.0 0.9 － 0.6 － 0.5 － 0.1
設備投資 1.2 1.3 － 0.2 1.3 － 1.0 － 0.9 － 1.2 0.2
民間在庫　　　　　 (*) 0.7 － 0.3 － 0.1 － 0.4 － 0.1 0.3 0.3 0.0
政府最終消費 － 0.2 0.5 0.2 0.4 0.4 1.7 1.6 0.0
公共投資 － 0.8 0.9 － 1.1 － 0.5 1.4 － 0.5 － 0.1 － 0.4
外需寄与度　　　　　 (*) － 0.6 － 0.0 － 0.2 0.1 0.3 0.5 0.5 0.0
輸出 － 0.7 1.7 － 1.4 0.1 1.7 0.4 0.5 － 0.1
輸入 2.0 1.8 － 0.6 － 0.2 0.3 － 1.7 － 1.5 － 0.1
名目GDP 0.9 1.8 0.3 0.9 0.8 1.3 1.2 0.2
同  　  (年  率) 3.5 7.3 1.3 3.7 3.1 5.5 4.8 0.7
同 　   (前年同期比) 5.3 5.4 4.1 3.8 3.8 3.5 3.2 0.3
3.6 3.3 3.5 3.4 3.2 2.6 2.6 0.1
変化幅
(%ﾎﾟｲﾝﾄ)
GDPデフレーター
　　　　　　(前年同期比)
4-6
（1次）
2025 年 2026 年

### Page 2

2 / 2

 2 次速報値を踏まえた、2026 年 4～6 月期における需要項目別の動向（実質ベース）は以下の通り。

① 実質個人消費（前期比＋ 0.0%） 
 家計を取り巻く所得環境 は改善したものの （実質雇用者報酬は前期比＋ 1.0%）、イラン情勢の
悪化による消費者マインドの弱さもあり、 前期から横ばいとなった 。制度変更や価格上昇前の駆
け込みが一部に生じた影響もあって、 耐久財（前期比＋ 4.0% ）や半耐久財（同 ＋0.8% ）が増加
した一方、 非耐久財（ 同－1.9%）が加熱式たばこの値上げもあって落ち込んだほか、サービス
（同－0. 2%）も減少した。  
② 実質住宅投資（前期比－ 0.6%） 
 住宅投資に先行する住宅着工戸数は 2 四半期ぶりに増加したものの、床面積ベースでは伸び
悩んだこともあり 、住宅投資は 3 四半期ぶりに減少 した。 
③ 実質設備投資（前期比－ 0.9% ） 
 企業の投資意欲は良好なものの、建設 費をはじめ種々の 投資コスト が増加していることもあって 、
設備投資は 2 四半期連続で減少した。  
④ 実質民間在庫（前期比寄与度＋ 0.3%ポイント ） 
 2 月末からのイラン情勢悪化による供給制約懸念の高まりを受けて、メーカーが製品在庫 など
の積み増しを進めたことから、民間在庫はプラス 寄与となった。  
 なお、公的在庫は政府が石油備蓄の放出を進めたことから、前期比寄与度－ 0.5% ポイントとな
った。 
⑤ 実質政府最終消費（前期比＋1.7% ） 
 高校授業料無償化の拡充や小学校給食費の 無償化などもあり、 前期比で増加が続いた。  
⑥ 実質公共投資（前期比－ 0.5%） 
 名目では増加したものの、 工事コストの増加を受けた デフレーターの上昇に追いつ いておらず、
2 四半期ぶりに減少した 。 
⑦ 外需（前期比寄与度＋ 0.5%ポイント 、実質輸出：前期比＋ 0.4%、実質輸入：同－ 1.7%） 
 輸出は前期比＋ 0.4%と増加した。財はイラン情勢の悪化を受けて中東向けを中心に減少した
一方、サービスは研究開発サービスが一時的な要因により上振れたこともあって増加した。  
 輸入は前期比－ 1.7%と減少した。財は鉱物性燃料を中心に減少し、サービスもこのところ増加
が続いていた反動もあって減少した。  
 結果、輸出から輸入を差し引いた外需の寄与度は＋0.5% ポイントとプラスになった。

---
## Document 055: 260915_ubs_guc

Source PDF: all report pdf/260915_ubs_guc.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 13
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

ab 15 September 2026
Global Research
First Read
Global Unichip
2026 Taiwan Summit:  CPU momentum and
ADAS projects support 2027F outlook
FY26 revenue outlook revised higher on improved wafer support
GUC attended our 2026 Taiwan Summit on Sep 14th. August revenue of NT$5,840mn
(+1%MoM/+111%YoY) is tracking above at 73%/75% of UBSe/Street +15%/+11%
QoQ. Following better-than-expected wafer support from TSMC, management raised its
FY26 revenue growth guidance from 36% YoY to approximately 100% in late-July, with

turnkey revenue expected to grow by over 100% and NRE revenue by high teens %.
Management maintained its 2026 corporate GM target of 20%+, despite rising revenue
contribution from its top  CPU customer. OPEX is expected to increase by high teens %
YoY, due to the new Turing center and higher employee bonuses, but strong revenue
growth should still drive meaningful operating leverage.
CPU project supports near-term growth and deepen CSP engagement

CPU turnkey project for the top CSP remains the main growth driver in H226F,
supported by increased wafer allocations for both the CPU project and GUC’s other top
customers. While the current CPU project carries a relatively lower margin given leading
CSP's extensive in-house design efforts, it has also strengthened GUC's customer
relationships. This has helped it secure the next-generation dual-die  CPU project, which
carries higher content and ASP and  should see initial revenue from late-2026 with more

significant revenue contribution in 2027E. GUC is also pursuing ASIC  accelerator
opportunities with the top CSP customer and the other major CSPs, although
management does not expect meaningful turnkey revenue before 2028.
Broader customer exposure supports medium-term growth
Beyond the current CPU ramp, GUC sees incremental growth opportunities across
ADAS, other CSP CPU/ASIC business, and CPO. Chinese customers'  ADAS turnkey
revenue is expected to begin in late 2026F, followed by a its U.S. 3nm ADAS project in

H227F, with both carrying higher margins than the current CPU program, although the
U.S. customer's ramp will depend on TSMC's capacity support. For the other CSP
customer, management expects revenue contribution from both CPU and ASIC   to begin
in H226F and could become another key  revenue driver in 2027. It is also working with
this CSP customer for Gen 3 and bidding on Gen 4 project. Although  CPO remains at an
early stage, GUC and its partners plan for  tape out  on TSMC’s COUPE by end-2026,

offering longer-term margin support given GUC’s greater involvement in chip design.
Valuation: Maintain Buy rating with a P/E-based price target of NT$6,700
We rate GUC BUY with a PT of  NT$6,700, based on 50x average 2027-28E EPS (vs
historical 15-62x range), supported by 52% CAGR in earnings over 2025-30E. We
reiterate that GUC should benefit from Google CPU upside and multiple automotive
project ramps.
Highlights (NT$m) 12/23 12/24 12/25 12/26E 12/27E 12/28E 12/29E 12/30E

Revenues 26,241 25,044 34,141 64,972 119,701 170,824 227,625 241,043
EBIT (UBS) 3,969 3,803 4,350 8,728 16,755 24,846 31,849 34,386
Net earnings (UBS) 3,508 3,451 3,770 7,774 14,485 21,396 27,613 30,163
EPS (UBS, diluted) (NT$) 26.19 25.75 28.13 58.01 108.09 159.66 206.05 225.08
DPS (net) (NT$) 13.99 14.00 16.00 20.00 25.00 30.00 35.00 40.00
Net (debt) / cash 7,638 10,427 6,650 9,390 6,981 24,334 31,438 63,252
Profitability/valuation 12/23 12/24 12/25 12/26E 12/27E 12/28E 12/29E 12/30E

EBIT (UBS) margin % 15.1 15.2 12.7 13.4 14.0 14.5 14.0 14.3
ROIC (EBIT) % 320.5 261.3 122.0 117.1 108.7 111.9 105.7 99.6
EV/EBITDA (UBS core) x 38.2 38.6 35.0 88.7 48.2 32.7 25.3 23.0
P/E (UBS, diluted) x 52.1 52.1 48.9 NM 59.2 40.1 31.1 28.4
Equity FCF (UBS) yield % 2.2 3.0 (1.3) 0.4 0.2 2.5 1.4 4.4
Dividend yield (net) % 1.0 1.0 1.2 0.3 0.4 0.5 0.5 0.6
Source: Company accounts, LSEG Eikon, UBS estimates. Metrics marked as (UBS) have had analyst adjustments applied. Valuations: based on an average share price that year, (E): based on a share

price of NT$ 6,400.00 on 14-Sep-2026
Equities
Taiwan
Semiconductors
12-month rating Buy
12m price target NT$6,700.00
Price (14 Sep 2026) NT$6,400
RIC: 3443.TW BBG: 3443 TT
Trading data and key metrics
52-wk range NT$6,400.00-1,255.00
Market cap. NT$857b/US$27.0b
Shares o/s 134m (ORD)
Free float 64%
Avg. daily volume ('000) 2,180
Avg. daily value (m) NT$10,729.6
Common s/h equity (12/26E) NT$18.0b
P/BV (12/26E) 47.5x
Net debt to EBITDA (12/26E) NM

UBS Cons.
EPS (UBS, diluted) (NT$)
12/26E 58.01 51.22
12/27E 108.09 111.22
12/28E 159.66 169.90
Jerry Su
Analyst
jerry.su@ubs.com
+886-28-722 7306
Annie Chen
Associate Analyst
annie.chen@ubs.com
+886-2-8722 7281

### Page 2

Forecast returns
Forecast price appreciation 4.7%
Forecast dividend yield 0.3%
Forecast stock return 5.0%
Market return assumption 6.3%
Forecast excess return -1.3%
Company Description
Global Unichip (GUC) is a leading IC design service company in Taiwan, founded in 1998. The
company's business is to design chipsets for customers that do not have IC design capability,
with the goal of reducing entry barriers and risks for chipset design and shortening the time

to market. The company's target to enable more IC design for start-ups and system
companies is complimentary with TSMC, which would benefit from a growing customer and
application base, in addition to the company's existing IC design and IDM customers.
Valuation Method and Risk Statement
We value Global Unichip based on a PE methodology.
Downside risks include a slower-than-expected business recovery for mature node, lack of
new project wins, and wafer capacity constraints.

### Page 3

Quantitative Research Review
UBS Global Research publishes a quantitative assessment of its analysts' responses to certain questions about the likelihood of an occurrence
of a number of short term factors in a product known as the 'Quantitative Research Review'.  The views for this month can be found below.
Views contained in this assessment on a particular stock reflect only the views on those short term factors which are a different timeframe to

the 12-month timeframe reflected in any equity rating set out in this note.  For previous responses please make reference to (i) previous UBS
Global Research reports; and (ii) where no applicable research report was published that month, the Quantitative Research Review which can
be found at https://neo.ubs.com/quantitative, or contact your UBS sales representative for access to the report or the Quantitative Research
Team on ubs-quant-answers@ubs.com. A consolidated report which contains all responses is also available and again you should contact your

UBS sales representative for details and pricing or the Quantitative Research Team on the email above.
Global Unichip
Question Response
1. Is the industry structure facing the firm likely to improve or deteriorate over the
next six months? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting worse, 3 = no change, 5 =
getting better, N/A = no view)
4
2. Is the regulatory/government environment facing the firm likely to improve or
deteriorate over the next six months? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting tougher

3 = no change, 5 = getting better, N/A = no view)
3
3. Over the last 3-6 months in broad terms have things been improving/no
change/getting worse for this stock? Rate on a scale of 1-5 (1 = getting a lot
worse, 3 = not much change, 5 = getting a lot better, N/A = no view)
4
4. Relative to the current CONSENSUS EPS forecast, is the next company EPS
update likely to lead to:  (1 = negative surprise vs consensus, 3 = in-line with
consensus, 5 = positive surprise vs consensus expectations, N/A = no view)

4
5. What’s driving the difference?
6. Relative to YOUR current earnings forecast, is there relatively greater risk at the
next earnings result of:(1 = downside skew risk to earnings, 3 = equal upside or
downside risk to earnings, 5 = upside skew risk to earnings, N/A = no view)
4
7. What’s driving the difference?
8. Is there an upcoming catalyst for the company over the next three months?                                     Positive Catalyst
9. Is there an actual or approximate date for the catalyst?

10. Is the catalyst date an actual or approximate date?                                     N/A
11. What is the catalyst?

### Page 4

reliable indicator of future results. Additional information will be made available upon request. UBS Securities Co. Limited is licensed to
conduct securities investment consultancy businesses by the China Securities Regulatory Commission. UBS acts or may act as principal
in the debt securities (or in related derivatives) that may be the subject of this report. This recommendation was finalized on: 14
September 2026 04:52 PM GMT. UBS has designated certain UBS Global Research department members as Derivatives Research

Analysts where those department members publish research principally on the analysis of the price or market for a derivative, and
provide information reasonably sufficient upon which to base a decision to enter into a derivatives transaction. Where Derivatives
Research Analysts co-author research reports with Equity Research Analysts or Economists, the Derivatives Research Analyst is
responsible for the derivatives investment views, forecasts, and/or recommendations. Quantitative Research Review: UBS Global

Research publishes a quantitative assessment of its analysts' responses to certain questions about the likelihood of an occurrence of a
number of short term factors in a product known as the 'Quantitative Research Review'. Views contained in this assessment on a
particular stock reflect only the views on those short term factors which are a different timeframe to the 12-month timeframe reflected
in any equity rating set out in this note. For the latest responses, please see the Quantitative Research Review Addendum at the back of

this report, where applicable. For previous responses please make reference to (i) previous UBS Global Research reports; and (ii) where
no applicable research report was published that month, the Quantitative Research Review which can be found at https://
neo.ubs.com/quantitative, or contact your UBS sales representative for access to the report or the Quantitative Research Team on ubs-
quant-answers@ubs.com.  A consolidated report which contains all responses is also available and again you should contact your UBS

Each research analyst primarily responsible for the content of this research report, in whole or in part, certifies that with respect to each
security or issuer that the analyst covered in this report: (1) all of the views expressed accurately reflect his or her personal views about
those securities or issuers and were prepared in an independent manner, including with respect to UBS, and (2) no part of his or her
compensation was, is, or will be, directly or indirectly, related to the specific recommendations or views expressed by that research

analyst in the research report.
UBS Global Research: Global Equity Rating Definitions
12-Month Rating Definition Coverage1 IB Services2
Buy FSR is > 6% above the MRA. 55% 24%
Neutral FSR is between -6% and 6% of the MRA. 40% 21%
Sell FSR is > 6% below the MRA. 6% 21%
Source: UBS. Rating allocations are as of 30 June 2026.
1:Percentage of companies under coverage globally within the 12-month rating category.
2:Percentage of companies within the 12-month rating category for which investment banking (IB) services were provided within the

past 12 months.
KEY DEFINITIONS:Forecast Stock Return (FSR) is defined as expected percentage price appreciation plus gross dividend yield over
the next 12 months. In some cases, this yield may be based on accrued dividends. Market Return Assumption (MRA) is defined as
the one-year local market interest rate plus 5% (a proxy for, and not a forecast of, the equity risk premium). Under Review (UR)
Stocks may be flagged as UR by the analyst, indicating that the stock's price target and/or rating are subject to possible change in the

near term, usually in response to an event that may affect the investment case or valuation. Equity Price Targets have an investment
horizon of 12 months.
EXCEPTIONS AND SPECIAL CASES:UK and European Investment Fund ratings and definitions are: Buy:  Positive on factors
such as structure, management, performance record, discount; Neutral: Neutral on factors such as structure, management,
performance record, discount; Sell: Negative on factors such as structure, management, performance record, discount. Core

### Page 5

Company Name Reuters 12-month rating Price Price date
Global Unichip28 3443.TW Buy NT$6,400 14 Sep 2026
Source: UBS Global Research; LSEG Eikon. All prices as of local market close. Ratings in this table are the most current
published ratings prior to this report. They may be more recent than the stock pricing date.
28. UBS holds a long position of 0.5% or more of the listed shares of this company.
Unless otherwise indicated, please refer to the Valuation and Risk sections within the body of this report. For a complete set of

contact UBS Securities LLC, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, USA, Attention: Investment Research.
Global Unichip (NT$)
Price Target (NT$) Stock Price (NT$)
0
1400
2800
4200
5600
7000
Buy
Sell
No Rating
Date Stock Price (NT$) Price Target (NT$) Rating
2023-06-14 1565.00 - No Rating
2023-11-16 1675.00 1560.00 Sell
2024-01-05 1655.00 1500.00 Sell
2024-04-09 1315.00 1530.00 Buy
2024-05-14 1370.00 1560.00 Buy
2024-07-18 1470.00 1860.00 Buy
2024-07-26 1335.00 1680.00 Buy

2024-10-31 1235.00 1520.00 Buy
2025-01-09 1295.00 1535.00 Buy
2025-02-09 1380.00 1590.00 Buy
2025-08-01 1255.00 1700.00 Buy
2026-01-05 2320.00 - No Rating
2026-01-16 2510.00 2900.00 Buy
2026-01-30 2620.00 3000.00 Buy
2026-05-01 4260.00 5500.00 Buy
2026-05-27 5100.00 6260.00 Buy
2026-07-01 5045.00 6500.00 Buy
2026-07-31 3805.00 6700.00 Buy
Source: UBS Global Research; LSEG Eikon as of 14-Sep-2026. All prices as of local market close. Ratings as of date shown.

### Page 6

Additional Prices: Taiwan Semiconductor Manufacturing, NT$2380.00 (14 Sep 2026); Alphabet Inc., US$335.45 (11 Sep 2026);
Source: UBS. All prices as of local market close.

### Page 7

former Credit Suisse AG and its subsidiaries, branches and affiliates are referred to herein as "UBS".
Any opinions expressed in this document may change without notice and are only current as of the date of publication. Different areas, groups, and personnel
within UBS may produce and distribute separate research products independently of each other. For example, research publications from UBS CIO are produced
by UBS Global Wealth Management. UBS Global Research is produced by UBS Investment Bank. Research methodologies and rating systems of each separate

research organization may differ, for example, in terms of investment recommendations, investment horizon, model assumptions, and valuation methods. As a
consequence, except for certain economic forecasts (for which UBS CIO and UBS Global Research may collaborate), investment recommendations, ratings, price
targets, and valuations provided by each of the separate research organizations may be different, or inconsistent. You should refer to each relevant research

product for the details as to their methodologies and rating system. Not all clients may have access to all products from every organization. Each research product
is subject to the policies and procedures of the organization that produces it.
This document is provided solely to recipients who are expressly authorized by UBS to receive it. If you are not so authorized you must
immediately destroy the document.
UBS Global Research is provided to our clients through UBS Neo, and in certain instances, UBS.com and any other system or distribution method specifically

identified in one or more communications distributed through UBS Neo or UBS.com (each a system) as an approved means for distributing UBS Global Research.
It may also be made available through third party vendors and distributed by UBS and/or third parties via e-mail or alternative electronic means.
All UBS Global Research is available on UBS Neo. Please contact your UBS sales representative if you wish to discuss your access to UBS Neo. Where UBS Global

Research refers to "UBS Evidence Lab Inside" or has made use of data provided by UBS Evidence Lab and you would like to access that data please contact your
UBS sales representative. UBS Evidence Lab data is available on UBS Neo. The level and types of services provided by UBS Global Research and UBS Evidence Lab to
a client may vary depending upon various factors such as a client's individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communications, a client's

risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g., market wide, sector specific, long-term, short-term, etc.), the size and scope of the overall client
relationship with UBS Global Research and UBS Evidence Lab and legal and regulatory constraints. UBS HOLT and UBS Pharma Values are offerings of UBS Global
Research. HOLT Lens is a corporate performance platform offering that provides an objective accounting-led framework for comparing and valuing companies

and is available to clients of UBS Global Research; for further details and pricing please contact your UBS Sales representative. In particular, HOLT has a variety of
warranted prices based on the scenario chosen; please mail UBS Securities LLC, 11 Madison Avenue, New York, NY 10010, USA, Attention: Investment Research,
if you are interested in the warranted price on a particular company, again subject to commercial considerations. UBS Pharma Values is an analytical tool that

and to the UBS Neo Platform Use Agreement (the "Neo Terms") together with any other relevant terms of use governing the applicable System.
When you receive UBS Global Research via a third party vendor, e-mail or other electronic means, you agree that use shall be subject to this UBS Global Research
Disclaimer, the Neo Terms and where applicable the UBS Investment Bank terms of business (https://www.ubs.com/global/en/investment-bank/regulatory.html)

and using cookies in accordance with our Privacy Statement (https://www.ubs.com/global/en/legalinfo2/privacy.html) and cookie notice (https://www.ubs.com/
global/en/legal/privacy/users.html).
If you receive UBS Global Research, whether through a System or by any other means, you agree that you shall not copy, revise, amend, create a
derivative work, provide to any third party, or in any way commercially exploit any UBS research provided via UBS Global Research or otherwise,

not be treated as a “client” of UBS for any legal or regulatory purpose; (iii) the UBS Global Research must not be relied on or acted upon for any purpose; and (iv)
such content is subject to the relevant disclaimers that follow.
This document is for distribution only as may be permitted by law. It is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen
or resident of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or

regulation or would subject UBS to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction.
This document is a general communication and is educational in nature; it is not an advertisement nor is it a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any financial
instruments or to participate in any particular trading strategy. Nothing in this document constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or
recommendation is suitable or appropriate to an investor’s individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. By providing this

document, none of UBS or its representatives has any responsibility or authority to provide or have provided investment advice in a fiduciary capacity or otherwise.
Investments involve risks, and investors should exercise prudence and their own judgment in making their investment decisions. None of UBS or its representatives
is suggesting that the recipient or any other person take a specific course of action or any action at all. The recipient should carefully read this document in its

entirety and not draw inferences or conclusions from the rating alone. By receiving this document, the recipient acknowledges and agrees with the intended
purpose described above and further disclaims any expectation or belief that the information constitutes investment advice to the recipient or otherwise purports
to meet the investment objectives of the recipient. The financial instruments described in the document may not be eligible for sale in all jurisdictions or to certain

categories of investors.
Options, structured derivative products and futures (including OTC derivatives) are not suitable for all investors. Trading in these instruments is considered risky
and may be appropriate only for sophisticated investors. Prior to buying or selling an option, and for the complete risks relating to options, you must receive a
copy of "The Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options." You may read the document at https://www.theocc.com/publications/risks/riskchap1.jsp or ask

future results. Transaction costs may be significant in option strategies calling for multiple purchases and sales of options, such as spreads and straddles. Because
of the importance of tax considerations to many options transactions, the investor considering options should consult with his/her tax advisor as to how taxes
affect the outcome of contemplated options transactions.
Mortgage and asset-backed securities may involve a high degree of risk and may be highly volatile in response to fluctuations in interest rates or other market

conditions. Foreign currency rates of exchange may adversely affect the value, price or income of any security or related instrument referred to in the document.
For investment advice, trade execution or other enquiries, clients should contact their local sales representative.
UBS notes that no globally accepted framework or definition (legal, regulatory or otherwise) currently exists, nor is there a market consensus as to what
constitutes an “ESG” (Environmental, Social or Governance) or an equivalent-label, or as to what precise attributes are required for the Information (as defined

below) to be defined as ESG or equivalently-labelled. Any information, data or other content including from a third party source contained, referred to herein or
used for whatsoever purpose by UBS or a third party (“Information”), in relation to any actual or potential ESG objective, issue or consideration is not intended to
be relied upon for ESG classification, regulatory regime or industry initiative purposes (“ESG Regimes”). Nothing in these materials is intended to convey, suggest

or indicate that UBS considers or represents any product, service, person or body mentioned in these materials as meeting or qualifying for any ESG classification,
labelling or similar standards that may exist under the ESG Regimes. UBS has not conducted any assessment of compliance with ESG Regimes. Parties are
reminded to make their own assessments for these purposes.
The value of any investment or income may go down as well as up, and investors may not get back the full (or any) amount invested. Past performance is not

necessarily a guide to future performance. Neither UBS nor any of its directors, employees or agents accepts any liability for any loss (including investment loss) or
damage arising out of the use of all or any of the Information.
Prior to making any investment or financial decisions, any recipient of this document or the information should take steps to understand the risk and return of the
investment and seek individualized advice from his or her personal financial, legal, tax and other professional advisors that takes into account all the particular

materials to which this document relates (the "Information"), except with respect to Information concerning UBS. The Information is not intended to be a

### Page 8

complete statement or summary of the securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. UBS does not undertake to update or keep current the
Information. Any statements contained in this report attributed to a third party represent UBS's interpretation of the data, information and/or opinions provided
by that third party either publicly or through a subscription service, and such use and interpretation have not been reviewed by the third party. In no circumstances

may this document or any of the Information (including any forecast, value, index or other calculated amount ("Values")) be used for any of the following
purposes:
(i) valuation or accounting purposes;
(ii) to determine the amounts due or payable, the price or the value of any financial instrument or financial contract; or
(iii) to measure the performance of any financial instrument including, without limitation, for the purpose of tracking the return or performance of any Value or of

defining the asset allocation of portfolio or of computing performance fees.
By receiving this document and the Information you will be deemed to represent and warrant to UBS that you will not use this document or any of the Information
for any of the above purposes or otherwise rely upon this document or any of the Information.
UBS has policies and procedures, which include, without limitation, independence policies and permanent information barriers, that are intended, and upon

which UBS relies, to manage potential conflicts of interest and control the flow of information within divisions of UBS and among its subsidiaries, branches and
affiliates. UBS does and seeks to do business with companies covered in its research reports. As a result, investors should be aware that the firm may have a
conflict of interest that could affect the objectivity of this report. Investors should consider this report as only a single factor in making their investment decision.

UBS Global Research will initiate, update and cease coverage solely at the discretion of UBS Global Research Management, which will also have sole discretion on
the timing and frequency of any published research product. The analysis contained in this document is based on numerous assumptions. All material information
in relation to published research reports, such as valuation methodology, risk statements, underlying assumptions (including sensitivity analysis of those

assumptions), ratings history etc. as required by the Market Abuse Regulation, can be found on UBS Neo. Different assumptions could result in materially different
results.
UBS Global Research may utilise artificial intelligence tools (“AI Tools”) in the preparation of this document. Notwithstanding any such use of AI Tools, this
document has undergone human review.
The analyst(s) responsible for the preparation of this document may interact with trading desk personnel, sales personnel and other parties for the purpose of

gathering, applying and interpreting market information. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow of information contained in one or more areas
within UBS into other areas, units, groups or affiliates of UBS. The compensation of the analyst who prepared this document is determined exclusively by UBS
Global Research management and senior management (not including investment banking). Analyst compensation is not based on investment banking revenues;

however, compensation may relate to the revenues of UBS and/or its divisions as a whole, of which investment banking, sales and trading are a part, and UBS as
a whole.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on an EU regulated market: UBS (excluding UBS Securities LLC) acts as a market maker or liquidity provider (in
accordance with the interpretation of these terms under English law or, if not carried out by UBS in the UK the law of the relevant jurisdiction in which UBS

determines it carries out the activity) in the financial instruments of the issuer save that where the activity of liquidity provider is carried out in accordance with the
definition given to it by the laws and regulations of any other EU jurisdictions, such information is separately disclosed in this document. For financial instruments
admitted to trading on a non-EU regulated market: UBS may act as a market maker save that where this activity is carried out in the US in accordance with the

definition given to it by the relevant laws and regulations, such activity will be specifically disclosed in this document. UBS may have issued a warrant the value of
which is based on one or more of the financial instruments referred to in the document. UBS and its affiliates and employees may have long or short positions,
trade as principal and buy and sell in instruments or derivatives identified herein; such transactions or positions may be inconsistent with the opinions expressed in

this document.
Within the past 12 months UBS may have received or provided investment services and activities or ancillary services as per MiFID II which may have given rise to
a payment or promise of a payment in relation to these services from or to this company.
Please note that all transactions conducted by UBS are consistent with sanctions regulations imposed by Switzerland, the European Union, the United Nations, the
United Kingdom and the United States, per UBS' global sanctions policy. UBS opinion as to future investment worthiness assumes no new sanctions are imposed.

US persons are prohibited from purchasing or selling securities of certain companies designated as being associated with the Chinese Military in accordance with
the amended US Presidential Executive Order 13959.
United Kingdom: This material is distributed by UBS AG, London Branch to persons who are eligible counterparties or professional clients. UBS AG, London
Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential

Regulation Authority. Europe: Except as otherwise specified herein, these materials are distributed by UBS Europe SE, a subsidiary of UBS AG, to persons who are
eligible counterparties or professional clients (as detailed in the Bundesanstalt fur Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) Rules and according to MIFID) and are only
available to such persons. The information does not apply to, and should not be relied upon by, retail clients. UBS Europe SE is authorised by the European Central

contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE. In all cases it is distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS AG,
London Branch. Turkey: Distributed by UBS AG, London Branch. No information in this document is provided for the purpose of offering, marketing and sale by
any means of any capital market instruments and services in the Republic of Turkey. Therefore, this document may not be considered as an offer made or to be

made to residents of the Republic of Turkey. UBS AG, London Branch is not licensed by the Turkish Capital Market Board under the provisions of the Capital
Market Law (Law No. 6362). Accordingly, neither this document nor any other offering material related to the instruments/services may be utilized in connection
with providing any capital market services to persons within the Republic of Turkey without the prior approval of the Capital Market Board. However, according to

article 15 (d) (ii) of the Decree No. 32, there is no restriction on the purchase or sale of the securities abroad by residents of the Republic of Turkey. Poland:
Distributed by UBS Europe SE (spolka z ograniczona odpowiedzialnoscia) Oddzial w Polsce. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE (spolka z ograniczona
odpowiedzialnoscia) Oddzial w Polsce has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE (spolka z

Recommendation for the purpose of the Russian Law - Federal Law #39-FZ ON THE SECURITIES MARKET Articles 6.1-6.2.Switzerland: Distributed by UBS AG to
persons who are institutional investors only. UBS AG is regulated by the Swiss Financial Market Supervisory Authority (FINMA). Italy: Prepared by UBS Europe SE
and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch has contributed to this document, the

document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Italy Branch. France: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS
Europe SE, France Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, France Branch has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been
prepared by UBS Europe SE, France Branch.  Spain: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch. Where an

analyst of UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Spain Branch.
Sweden: Prepared by UBS Europe SE and distributed by UBS Europe SE and UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch. Where an analyst of UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch
has contributed to this document, the document is also deemed to have been prepared by UBS Europe SE, Sweden Branch. South Africa: Distributed by UBS

South Africa (Pty) Limited (Registration No. 1995/011140/07), an authorised user of the JSE and an authorised Financial Services Provider (FSP 7328). Saudi
Arabia: This document has been issued by UBS AG (and/or any of its subsidiaries, branches or affiliates), a public company limited by shares, incorporated in
Switzerland with its registered offices at Aeschenvorstadt 1, CH-4051 Basel and Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH-8001 Zurich. This publication has been approved by UBS

Saudi Arabia (a subsidiary of UBS AG), a Saudi closed joint stock company incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia under commercial register number
1010257812 having its registered office at Tatweer Towers, P.O. Box 75724, Riyadh 11588, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. UBS Saudi Arabia is authorized and
regulated by the Capital Market Authority to conduct securities business under license number 08113-37. UAE / Dubai: The information distributed by UBS AG

Dubai Branch is only intended for Professional Clients and/or Market Counterparties, as classified under the DFSA rulebook. No other person should act upon this
material/communication. The information is not for further distribution within the United Arab Emirates. UBS AG Dubai Branch is regulated by the DFSA in the
DIFC. UBS is not licensed to provide banking services in the UAE by the Central Bank of the UAE, nor is it licensed by the UAE Securities and Commodities

Authority.  Israel: This Material is distributed by UBS AG, London Branch. UBS Securities Israel Ltd is a licensed Investment Marketer that is supervised by the Israel
Securities Authority (ISA). UBS AG, London Branch and its affiliates incorporated outside Israel are not licensed under the Israeli Advisory Law. UBS may engage
among others in issuance of Financial Assets or in distribution of Financial Assets of other issuers for fees or other benefits. UBS AG, London Branch and its

affiliates may prefer various Financial Assets to which they have or may have an Affiliation (as such term is defined under the Israeli Advisory Law). Nothing in this
Material should be considered as investment advice under the Israeli Advisory Law. This Material is being issued only to and/or is directed only at persons who are
Eligible Clients within the meaning of the Israeli Advisory Law, and this Material must not be furnished to, relied on or acted upon by any other persons. United

States: Distributed to US persons by either UBS Securities LLC or by UBS Financial Services Inc., subsidiaries of UBS AG; or by a group, subsidiary or affiliate of UBS
AG that is not registered as a US broker-dealer (a ‘non-US affiliate’) to major US institutional investors only. UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial Services Inc.
accepts responsibility for the content of a report prepared by another non-US affiliate when distributed to US persons by UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial

Services Inc. All transactions by a US person in the securities mentioned in this report must be effected through UBS Securities LLC or UBS Financial Services Inc.,
and not through a non-US affiliate. UBS Securities LLC is not acting as a municipal advisor to any municipal entity or obligated person within the meaning of
Section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Municipal Advisor Rule"), and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not

constitute, advice within the meaning of the Municipal Advisor Rule. Canada: Distributed by UBS Securities Canada Inc., a registered investment dealer in Canada

### Page 9

and a Member-Canadian Investor Protection Fund, or by another affiliate of UBS AG that is registered to conduct business in Canada or is otherwise exempt from
registration. Brazil: Except as otherwise specified herein, this Material is prepared by UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. (UBS BB
CCTVM) to persons who are eligible investors residing in Brazil, which are considered to be Professional Investors (Investidores Profissionais), as designated by the

applicable regulation, mainly the CVM Resolution No. 30 from the 11th of May 2021 (determines the duty to verify the suitability of products, services and
transactions with regards to the client´s profile). UBS BB CCTVM is a subsidiary of UBS BB Servicos de Assessoria Financeira e Participacoes S.A. (“UBS BB”). UBS BB
is an association between UBS AG and Banco do Brasil (through its subsidiary BB – Banco de Investimentos S.A.), of which UBS AG is the majority owner and

de Valores Mobiliarios (CVM) and by the Central Bank of Brazil. Ombudsman: 0800-940-0266/ https://www.ubs.com/br/pt/ubsbb-investment-bank/
ombudsman.html. UBS may hold relevant financial and commercial interest in relation to the company subject to this Research report. Hong Kong: Distributed
by UBS Securities Asia Limited. Please contact local licensed persons of UBS Securities Asia Limited in respect of any matters arising from, or in connection with,

the analysis or document Singapore: Distributed by UBS Securities Pte. Ltd. [Co. Reg. No.: 198500648C] or UBS AG, Singapore Branch. Please contact UBS
Securities Pte. Ltd., an exempt financial adviser under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110); or UBS AG, Singapore Branch, an exempt financial adviser
under the Singapore Financial Advisers Act (Cap. 110) and a wholesale bank licensed under the Singapore Banking Act (Cap. 19) regulated by the Monetary

Ltd. is the author, publisher and distributor of the report. Distributed by UBS AG, Tokyo Branch to Professional Investors (except as otherwise permitted) in relation
to foreign exchange and other banking businesses when relevant. Australia: Recipients through a superannuation fund: Distributed by UBS AG, Australia Branch
(ABN 47 088 129 613 and holder of Australian Financial Service Licence No. 231087). For all other recipients: Distributed by UBS Securities Australia Limited (ABN

62 008 586 481 and holder of Australian Financial Services Licence No. 231098). This document contains general information and/or general advice only and
does not constitute personal financial product advice. As such, the Information in this document has been prepared without taking into account any investor’s
objectives, financial situation or needs, and investors should, before acting on the Information, consider the appropriateness of the Information, having regard to

New Zealand: Distributed by UBS New Zealand Ltd. UBS New Zealand Ltd is not a registered bank in New Zealand. You are being provided with this publication
or material because you have indicated to UBS that you are a “wholesale client” within the meaning of clause 4 of schedule 5 of the Financial Markets Conduct
Act 2013 of New Zealand (Permitted Client). This publication or material is not intended for clients who are not Permitted Clients (non-permitted Clients). If you

are a non-permitted Client you must not rely on this publication or material. If despite this warning you nevertheless rely on this publication or material, you
hereby (i) acknowledge that you may not rely on the content of this publication or material and that any recommendations or opinions in such this publication or
material are not made or provided to you, and (ii) to the maximum extent permitted by law (a) indemnify UBS and its associates or related entities (and their

respective Directors, officers, agents and Advisors) (each a ‘Relevant Person’) for any loss, damage, liability or claim any of them may incur or suffer as a result of,
or in connection with, your unauthorised reliance on this publication or material and (b) waive any rights or remedies you may have against any Relevant Person
for (or in respect of) any loss, damage, liability or claim you may incur or suffer as a result of, or in connection with, your unauthorised reliance on this publication

or material. Korea: Distributed in Korea by UBS Securities Pte. Ltd., Seoul Branch. This report may have been edited or contributed to from time to time by
affiliates of UBS Securities Pte. Ltd., Seoul Branch. This material is intended for professional/institutional clients only and not for distribution to any retail clients.
Malaysia: This material is authorized to be distributed in Malaysia by UBS Securities Malaysia Sdn. Bhd (Capital Markets Services License No.: CMSL/

A0063/2007). This material is intended for professional/institutional clients only and not for distribution to any retail clients. India: Distributed by UBS Securities
India Private Ltd. (Corporate Identity Number U67120MH1996PTC097299) Unit 2901, Level 29 Altimus, Pandurang Budhkar Road, Worli, Mumbai – 400 018. It
provides brokerage services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INZ000259830; Merchant Banking services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INM000013101;

and Research Analyst services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INH000001204. Name of Compliance Officer Mr. Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone :
+912261556151, Email : parameshwaran.s@ubs.com, Name of Grievance Officer Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone : +912261556151, Email: ol-ubs-
sec-compliance@ubs.com Registration granted by SEBI, and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or provide any
assurance of returns to investors. UBS may have debt holdings or positions in the subject Indian company/companies. UBS may have financial interests (e.g. loan/

derivative products, rights to or interests in investments, etc.) in the subject Indian company / companies from time to time. Within the past 12 months, UBS may
have received compensation for non-investment banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services from the subject Indian company/companies.
The subject company/companies may have been a client/clients of UBS during the 12 months preceding the date of distribution of the research report with

respect to investment banking and/or non-investment banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services. With regard to information on associates,
please refer to the Annual Report at: https://www.ubs.com/global/en/about_ubs/investor_relations/annualreporting.html The Research Annual Compliance
Report for UBS Securities India Private Limited is available on www.ubs.com/ubssi under Research tab. Taiwan: Except as otherwise specified herein, this material

distributed by UBS Securities Pte. LTD., Taipei Branch to professional institutional investors and/or persons permitted under applicable regulation. Unless permitted
by applicable Taiwan laws and regulations, this material is for reference and information only and should not constitute "recommendation" to clients or recipients
in Taiwan for the covered companies or any companies mentioned in this document. No portion of the document may be reprinted, reproduced or quoted by the

press or any other person without authorisation from UBS. Indonesia: This report is being distributed by PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia and is delivered by its
licensed employee(s), including marketing/sales person, to its client. PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia, having its registered office at Sequis Tower Level 22 unit 22-
1,Jl.Jend. Sudirman, kav.71, SCBD lot 11B, Jakarta 12190. Indonesia, is a subsidiary company of UBS AG and licensed under Capital Market Law no. 8 year 1995,

a holder of broker-dealer and underwriter licenses issued by the Capital Market and Financial Institution Supervisory Agency (now Otoritas Jasa Keuangan/OJK).
PT UBS Sekuritas Indonesia is also a member of Indonesia Stock Exchange and supervised by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (OJK). Neither this report nor any copy hereof
may be distributed in Indonesia or to any Indonesian citizens except in compliance with applicable Indonesian capital market laws and regulations. This report is

English law.
UBS specifically prohibits the redistribution of this document in whole or in part without the written permission of UBS and in any event UBS accepts no liability
whatsoever for any redistribution of this document or its contents or the actions of third parties in this respect. Images may depict objects or elements that are
protected by third party copyright, trademarks and other intellectual property rights. © UBS 2026. The key symbol and UBS are among the registered and

FINMA in Switzerland) or its affiliates ("UBS") with whom you have a banking relationship with. The full name of the distributing affiliate and its competent authority can be
found in the country-specific disclaimer at the end of this document. UBS may utilise artificial intelligence tools (“AI Tools”) in the preparation of this document.
Notwithstanding any such use of AI Tools, this document has undergone human review.
The date and time of the first dissemination of this publication is the same as the date and time of its publication.

Risk information:
You agree that you shall not copy, revise, amend, create a derivative work, provide to any third party, or in any way commercially exploit any UBS research, and that you shall
not extract data from any research or estimates, without the prior written consent of UBS.
This document is for distribution only as may be permitted by law. It is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity who is a citizen or resident

of or located in any locality, state, country or other jurisdiction where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation or would subject
UBS to any registration or licensing requirement within such jurisdiction.
This document is for your information only; it is not an advertisement nor is it a solicitation or an offer to buy or sell any financial instruments or to participate in any
particular trading strategy. Nothing in this document constitutes a representation that any investment strategy or recommendation is suitable or appropriate to an investor’s

individual circumstances or otherwise constitutes a personal recommendation. By providing this document, none of UBS or its representatives has any responsibility or
authority to provide or have provided investment advice in a fiduciary capacity or otherwise. Investments involve risks, and investors should exercise prudence and their own
judgment in making their investment decisions. None of UBS or its representatives is suggesting that the recipient or any other person take a specific course of action or any

action at all. By receiving this document, the recipient acknowledges and agrees with the intended purpose described above and further disclaims any expectation or belief
that the information constitutes investment advice to the recipient or otherwise purports to meet the investment objectives of the recipient. The financial instruments
described in the document may not be eligible for sale in all jurisdictions or to certain categories of investors.

Options, derivative products and futures are not suitable for all investors, and trading in these instruments is considered risky. Mortgage and asset-backed securities may
involve a high degree of risk and may be highly volatile in response to fluctuations in interest rates or other market conditions. Foreign currency rates of exchange may

### Page 10

guide to future performance. Neither UBS nor any of its directors, employees or agents accepts any liability for any loss (including investment loss) or damage arising out of
the use of all or any of the information (as defined below).
Prior to making any investment or financial decisions, any recipient of this document or the information should take steps to understand the risk and return of the investment
and seek individualized advice from his or her personal financial, legal, tax and other professional advisors that takes into account all the particular facts and circumstances of

which this document relates (the "Information"), except with respect to Information concerning UBS. The Information is not intended to be a complete statement or
summary of the securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. UBS does not undertake to update or keep current the Information. Any opinions expressed
in this document may change without notice and may differ or be contrary to opinions expressed by other business areas or groups, personnel or other representative of UBS.

Any statements contained in this report attributed to a third party represent UBS's interpretation of the data, information and/or opinions provided by that third party either
publicly or through a subscription service, and such use and interpretation have not been reviewed by the third party. In no circumstances may this document or any of the
Information (including any forecast, value, index or other calculated amount ("Values")) be used for any of the following purposes: (i) valuation or accounting purposes; (ii) to

determine the amounts due or payable, the price or the value of any financial instrument or financial contract; or (iii) to measure the performance of any financial instrument
including, without limitation, for the purpose of tracking the return or performance of any Value or of defining the asset allocation of portfolio or of computing performance
fees.
By receiving this document and the Information you will be deemed to represent and warrant to UBS that you will not use this document or any of the Information for any of

the above purposes or otherwise rely upon this document or any of the Information.
UBS has policies and procedures, which include, without limitation, independence policies and permanent information barriers, that are intended, and upon which UBS
relies, to manage potential conflicts of interest and control the flow of information within divisions of UBS (including between Global Wealth Management and UBS Global
Research) and among its subsidiaries, branches and affiliates. For further information on the ways in which UBS manages conflicts and maintains independence of its research

methodology.
Research will initiate, update and cease coverage solely at the discretion of research management, which will also have sole discretion on the timing and frequency of any
published research product. The analysis contained in this document is based on numerous assumptions. Different assumptions could result in materially different results.
The analyst(s) responsible for the preparation of this document may interact with trading desk personnel, sales personnel and other parties for the purpose of gathering,

applying and interpreting market information. UBS relies on information barriers to control the flow of information contained in one or more areas within UBS into other
areas, units, groups or affiliates of UBS. The compensation of the analyst who prepared this document is determined exclusively by research management and senior
management (not including investment banking). Analyst compensation is not based on investment banking revenues; however, compensation may relate to the revenues of

UBS and/or its divisions as a whole, of which investment banking, sales and trading are a part, and UBS's subsidiaries, branches and affiliates as a whole.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on an EU regulated market: UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries (excluding UBS Securities LLC) acts as a market maker or
liquidity provider (in accordance with the interpretation of these terms in the UK) in the financial instruments of the issuer save that where the activity of liquidity provider is

carried out in accordance with the definition given to it by the laws and regulations of any other EU jurisdictions, such information is separately disclosed in this document.
For financial instruments admitted to trading on a non-EU regulated market: UBS may act as a market maker save that where this activity is carried out in the US in accordance
with the definition given to it by the relevant laws and regulations, such activity will be specifically disclosed in this document. UBS may have issued a warrant the value of

which is based on one or more of the financial instruments referred to in the document. UBS and its affiliates and employees may have long or short positions, trade as
principal and buy and sell in instruments or derivatives identified herein; such transactions or positions may be inconsistent with the opinions expressed in this document.
Options and futures are not suitable for all investors, and trading in these instruments is considered risky and may be appropriate only for sophisticated investors. Prior to

buying or selling an option, and for the complete risks relating to options, you must receive a copy of "Characteristics and Risks of Standardized Options". You may read the
document at  https://www.theocc.com/about/publications/character-risks.jsp  or ask your financial advisor for a copy.
Investing in structured investments involves significant risks. For a detailed discussion of the risks involved in investing in any particular structured investment, you must read

the relevant offering materials for that investment. Structured investments are unsecured obligations of a particular issuer with returns linked to the performance of an
underlying asset. Depending on the terms of the investment, investors could lose all or a substantial portion of their investment based on the performance of the underlying
asset. Investors could also lose their entire investment if the issuer becomes insolvent. UBS does not guarantee in any way the obligations or the financial condition of any

issuer or the accuracy of any financial information provided by any issuer. Structured investments are not traditional investments and investing in a structured investment is
not equivalent to investing directly in the underlying asset. Structured investments may have limited or no liquidity, and investors should be prepared to hold their investment
to maturity. The return of structured investments may be limited by a maximum gain, participation rate or other feature. Structured investments may include call features and,

if a structured investment is called early, investors would not earn any further return and may not be able to reinvest in similar investments with similar terms. Structured
investments include costs and fees which are generally embedded in the price of the investment. The tax treatment of a structured investment may be complex and may differ
from a direct investment in the underlying asset. UBS and its employees do not provide tax advice. Investors should consult their own tax advisor about their own tax situation

before investing in any securities.
Important Information About Sustainable Investing Strategies: Sustainable investing strategies aim to consider and incorporate environmental, social and governance
(ESG) factors into investment process and portfolio construction. Strategies across geographies approach ESG analysis and incorporate the findings in a variety of ways.
Incorporating ESG factors or sustainable investing considerations may inhibit the portfolio manager’s ability to participate in certain investment opportunities that otherwise

would be consistent with its investment objective and other principal investment strategies. The returns on a portfolio incorporating ESG factors or sustainable investing
considerations may be lower or higher than portfolios where ESG factors, exclusions, or other sustainability issues are not considered by the portfolio manager, and the
investment opportunities available to such portfolios may differ.
Within the past 12 months UBS Switzerland AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have received or provided investment services and activities or ancillary services as per MiFID

External Asset Managers / External Financial Consultants : In case this research or publication is provided to an External Asset Manager or an External Financial
Consultant, UBS expressly prohibits that it is redistributed by the External Asset Manager or the External Financial Consultant and is made available to their clients and/or third
parties.
Argentina: All securities that will be offered to you by UBS are not authorized by the Argentine Securities and Exchange Commission (CNV) and are not subject to its

reporting, periodic information requirements, or oversight. Furthermore, the CNV has not reviewed or endorsed the information provided in any securities offering
document, nor the accuracy of any accounting, financial, economic data, or any other information disclosed therein, which remains the sole responsibility of the respective
issuer and the other parties involved. Australia: This document is provided by UBS Switzerland AG. UBS Switzerland AG does not hold an Australian Financial Services

Licence (AFSL) and relies on an exemption to provide financial services to persons in Australia. This document is intended only for distribution to wholesale clients under the
Corporations Act 2001 (Cth). UBS Switzerland AG is a related body corporate of UBS AG, Australia Branch and UBS Securities Australia Limited. This document may be
distributed to clients by those entities, but it is provided by UBS Switzerland AG and is not provided under any of the other entities’ AFSL. The information in this document

is general in nature and is not intended to address the objectives, financial situation or needs of any particular individual or entity. Each recipient should consider their own
objectives, financial situation or needs before acting on the advice and obtain the relevant Product Disclosure Statement (if required) before making any decision whether to
acquire any product. In Australia, UBS entities, other than UBS AG, Australia Branch, are not authorized deposit-taking institutions for the purposes of the Banking Act 1959

(Cth.) and their obligations do not represent deposits or other liabilities of UBS AG, Australia Branch. UBS AG, Australia Branch does not guarantee or otherwise provide
assurance in respect of the obligations of such UBS entities or the funds. An investor is exposed to investment risk including possible delays in repayment and loss of income
and principal invested, as relevant. If you do not wish to receive marketing materials from UBS, please contact your UBS representative or the contact details listed in the

### Page 11

a Foreign Branch of UBS AG, Zurich/Switzerland and is located on Level 21, East Tower, Bahrain World Trade Centre, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain. Brazil: This report is
distributed in Brazil by UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A. or its affiliates (“UBS”). Pursuant to CVM Resolution No. 20/2021, of February 25,
2021, the author(s) of the report hereby certify(ies) that the views expressed in this report solely and exclusively reflect their personal opinions and have been prepared

independently, including with respect to UBS. Part of the author(s)´s compensation is based on various factors, including the total revenues of the relevant UBS Group entity
of which they are in employment of, but no part of the compensation has been, is, or will be related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in this report. In
addition, UBS declares that: UBS has provided, and/or may in the future provide investment banking, brokerage, asset management, commercial banking and other financial

services to the subject company/companies or its affiliates, for which they have received or may receive customary fees and commissions, and which constituted or may
constitute relevant financial or commercial interests in relation to the subject company/companies or the subject securities. Canada: The information contained herein is not,
and under no circumstances is to be construed as, a prospectus, an advertisement, a public offering, an offer to sell securities described herein, solicitation of an offer to buy

securities described herein, in Canada or any province or territory thereof. Any offer or sale of the securities described herein in Canada will be made only under an exemption
from the requirements to file a prospectus with the relevant Canadian securities regulators and only by a dealer properly registered under applicable securities laws or,
alternatively, pursuant to an exemption from the dealer registration requirement in the relevant province or territory of Canada in which such offer or sale is made. Under no

circumstances is the information contained herein to be construed as investment advice in any province or territory of Canada and is not tailored to the needs of the recipient.
To the extent that the information contained herein references securities of an issuer incorporated, formed or created under the laws of Canada or a province or territory of
Canada, any trades in such securities must be conducted through a dealer registered in Canada or, alternatively, pursuant to a dealer registration exemption. No securities

commission or similar regulatory authority in Canada has reviewed or in any way passed upon these materials, the information contained herein or the merits of the securities
described herein and any representation to the contrary is an offence. In Canada, this publication is distributed by UBS Investment Management Canada Inc. China: This
report and any offering material such as term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this report

was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the material erroneously,
UBS asks that you kindly delete it and inform UBS immediately. This report is prepared by UBS Switzerland AG or its offshore subsidiary or affiliate (collectively as "UBS
Offshore"). UBS Offshore is an entity incorporated out of China and is not licensed, supervised or regulated in China to carry out banking or securities business. The recipient

should not contact the analysts or UBS Offshore which produced this report for advice as they are not licensed to provide securities investment advice in China. UBS
Investment Bank (including Research) has its own wholly independent research and views which at times may vary from the views of UBS Global Wealth Management. The
recipient should not use this document or otherwise rely on any of the information contained in this report in making investment decisions and UBS takes no responsibility in

this regard. Denmark: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Danish law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe
SE, Denmark Branch, filial af UBS Europe SE, with place of business at Sankt Annae Plads 13, 1250 Copenhagen, Denmark, registered with the Danish Commerce and
Companies Agency, under No. 38 17 24 33. UBS Europe SE, Denmark Branch, filial af UBS Europe SE is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the

German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin"), as
well as of the Danish Financial Supervisory Authority (Finanstilsynet), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution
constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Egypt: Securities or other investment products are not being offered or sold by

UBS to the public in Egypt and they have not been and will not be registered with the Egyptian Financial Regulatory Authority (FRA). France: This publication is not intended
to constitute a public offer under French law, it does not constitute a personal recommendation as it is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE
Succursale de France (a branch of UBS Europe SE), having its registered office at 39, rue du Colisée, 75008 Paris, France, registered with the “Registre du Commerce et des

Sociétés” of Paris under N°844 425 629. UBS Europe SE Succursale de France is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the German Central Bank
(Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin"), as well as of the French
"Autorité de contrôle prudentiel et de résolution" and "Autorité des marchés financiers", to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a

credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Germany: This publication is not intended to constitute a
public offer under German law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Germany, with place of business at Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4,
60306 Frankfurt am Main. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by the German Federal

Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin") and supervised jointly by the European Central Bank, the German Central
Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank) and BaFin, to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. Hong Kong SAR: This publication is distributed to clients of UBS AG
Hong Kong Branch by UBS AG Hong Kong Branch, a licensed bank under the Hong Kong Banking Ordinance and a registered institution under the Securities and Futures

Ordinance. UBS AG Hong Kong Branch is incorporated in Switzerland with limited liability. The contents of this material have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority
in Hong Kong. India: UBS Securities India Private Ltd. (Corporate Identity Number U67120MH1996PTC097299) 2/F, 3 North Avenue, Maker Maxity, Bandra Kurla Complex,
Bandra (East), Mumbai (India) 400051. Phone: +912261556000. It provides brokerage services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INZ000259830; Merchant Banking

services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INM000013101 and Research Analyst services bearing SEBI Registration Number: INH000001204. Name of Compliance Officer
Mr. Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan, Phone: +912261556151, Email: parameshwaran.s@ubs.com, Name of Grievance Officer Parameshwaran Shivaramakrishnan,
Phone: +912261556151, Email: ol-ubs-sec-compliance@ubs.com. Registration granted by SEBI, and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the

intermediary or provide any assurance of returns to investors. UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have debt holdings or positions in the subject Indian company/
companies. UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have financial interests (e.g. loan/derivative products, rights to or interests in investments, etc.) in the subject Indian
company/companies from time to time. Within the past 12 months, UBS AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries may have received compensation for non-investment banking

securities-related services and/or non-securities services from the subject Indian company/companies. The subject company/companies may have been a client/clients of UBS
AG, its affiliates or subsidiaries during the 12 months preceding the date of distribution of the research report with respect to investment banking and/or non-investment
banking securities-related services and/or non-securities services. With regard to information on associates, please refer to the Annual Report at: https://www.ubs.com/

global/en/about_ubs/investor_relations/annualreporting.html. The Research Annual Compliance report for UBS Securities India Private Limited is available on www.ubs.com/
ubssi under Research tab. Indonesia: This communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other
information (the "Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your

behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The
Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed without the consent of UBS. None of the Material has been registered
or filed under the prevailing laws and with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. The Material may not have been approved, disapproved, endorsed,

registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or
to purchase any investment (including securities or products or futures contracts). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract
(including futures contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as

set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you
understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are
advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been

provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Israel: UBS is a premier
global financial firm offering wealth management, asset management and investment banking services from its headquarters in Switzerland and its operations in over 50
countries worldwide to individual, corporate and institutional investors. This publication is intended for information only and is not intended as an offer to buy or solicitation

of an offer. Furthermore, this publication is not intended as an investment advice. Nothing contrary to the above, no action has been, or will be, taken in Israel that would
permit an offering of the product(s) mentioned in this document or a distribution of this document to the public in Israel. In particular, this document has not been reviewed
or approved by the Israeli Securities Authority. The product(s) mentioned in this document is/are being offered to a limited number of sophisticated investors who qualify as

furnished to any other person other than those to whom copies have been sent. Anyone who purchases the product(s) mentioned herein shall do so for its own benefit and
for its own account and not with the aim or intention of distributing or offering the product(s) to other parties. Anyone who purchases the product(s) shall do so in
accordance with its own understanding and discretion and after it has received any relevant financial, legal, business, tax or other advice or opinion required by it in

being researched, as well as the fact that remuneration paid to the financial analysts is based generally upon the performance of (i) the new issues department or investment
banking; or (ii) securities trading performance (including proprietary trading) or sales. Italy: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Italian law. It is
distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Succursale Italia, with place of business at Via del Vecchio Politecnico, 3-20121 Milano. UBS Europe SE,

Succursale Italia is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central Bank, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services
Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, “BaFin”), as well as of the Bank of Italy (Banca d’Italia) and the Italian Financial Markets Supervisory
Authority (CONSOB - Commissione Nazionale per le Società e la Borsa), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution

constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Japan: This report is solely distributed in Japan by UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth
Management Co., Ltd, Financial Instruments Dealer, Director-General of Kanto Local Finance Bureau (Kinsho) No. 3233, a member of the Japan Securities Dealers
Association, Financial Futures Association of Japan, Investment Management Association of Japan. UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Management Co., Ltd will not distribute or

### Page 12

forward this report outside Japan. Jersey: UBS AG, Jersey Branch, is regulated and authorized by the Jersey Financial Services Commission for the conduct of banking, funds
and investment business. Where services are provided from outside Jersey, they will not be covered by the Jersey regulatory regime. UBS AG, Jersey Branch is a branch of UBS
AG a public company limited by shares, incorporated in Switzerland whose registered offices are at Aeschenvorstadt 1, CH-4051 Basel and Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH 8001

Zurich. UBS AG, Jersey Branch's principal place of business is 1, IFC Jersey, St Helier, Jersey, JE2 3BX. Luxembourg: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer
under Luxembourg law. It is distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Luxembourg Branch ("UBS Luxembourg"), R.C.S. Luxembourg n°
B209123, with registered office at 33A, Avenue J. F. Kennedy, L-1855 Luxembourg. UBS Europe SE is a credit institution constituted under German law in the form of a

Societas Europaea (HRB n° 107046), with registered office at Bockenheimer Landstrasse 2-4, D-60306 Frankfurt am Main, Germany, duly authorized by the German Federal
Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, "BaFin") and subject to the joint prudential supervision of BaFin, the European
Central Bank and the central bank of Germany (Deutsche Bundesbank). UBS Luxembourg is furthermore supervised by the Luxembourg prudential supervisory authority

(Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier), in its role as host member state authority. This publication has not been submitted for approval to any public supervisory
authority. Malaysia: This communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the
"Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should

you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where
provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material
may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the

Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor
a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant
investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such

restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk
appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided
on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case

may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Mexico: This information is distributed by UBS Asesores México, S.A. de C.V. ("UBS Asesores"), an affiliate of UBS
Switzerland AG, incorporated as a non-independent investment advisor under the Mexican regulation due to the relation with a Foreign Bank. UBS Asesores is registered
under number 30060-001-(14115)-21/06/2016 and subject to the supervision of the Mexican Banking and Securities Commission ("CNBV") exclusively regarding the

rendering of (i) portfolio management services, (ii) securities investment advisory services, analysis and issuance of individual investment recommendations, and (iii) anti-
money laundering and terrorism financing matters. This UBS publication or any material related thereto is addressed only to Sophisticated or Institutional Investors located in
Mexico. Research reports only reflect the views of the analysts responsible for the report. The compensation of the analyst(s) who prepared this report is determined

exclusively by research management and senior management of any entity of UBS Group to which such analyst(s) render(s) services. Monaco: This document is not intended
to constitute a public offering or a comparable solicitation under the Principality of Monaco laws, but might be made available for information purposes to clients of UBS
(Monaco) S.A., a regulated bank having its registered office at 2 avenue de Grande Bretagne 98000 Monaco operating under a banking license granted by the “Autorité de

Contrôle Prudentiel et de Résolution” (ACPR) and the Monegasque government which authorizes the provision of banking services in Monaco. UBS (Monaco) S.A. is also
licensed by the “Commission de Contrôle des Activités Financières” (CCAF) to provide investment services in Monaco. The latter has not approved this publication.
Philippines:  This communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have

received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was
provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have
been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material,

made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor a
solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant
investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such

restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk
appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided
on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case

may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Portugal: UBS Switzerland AG is not licensed to conduct banking and financial activities in Portugal nor is UBS
Switzerland AG supervised by the portuguese regulators (Bank of Portugal "Banco de Portugal" and Portuguese Securities Exchange Commission "Comissão do Mercado de
Valores Mobiliários"). Qatar: UBS Qatar LLC is licensed by the Qatar Financial Centre Authority and authorized by the QFC Regulatory Authority, with QFC no. 01169, and

an invitation to make offers, to sell, exchange or otherwise transfer any financial instruments in the Russian Federation to or for the benefit of any Russian person or entity
and does not constitute an advertisement or offering of securities in the Russian Federation within the meaning of Russian securities laws. The information contained herein
is not an “individual investment recommendation” as defined in Federal Law of 22 April 1996 No 39-FZ "On Securities Market" (as amended) and the financial instruments

and operations specified herein may not be suitable for your investment profile or your investment goals or expectations. The determination of whether or not such financial
instruments and operations are in your interests or are suitable for your investment goals, investment horizon or the acceptable risk level is your responsibility. We assume no
liability for any losses connected with making any such operations or investing into any such financial instruments and we do not recommend to use such information as the

only source of information for making an investment decision. Saudi Arabia: This material is for marketing and information purposes by UBS Saudi Arabia only. It has been
distributed by UBS Saudi Arabia or reviewed and approved by UBS Saudi Arabia if it was issued by UBS Switzerland AG, by UBS AG, or any of its subsidiaries or branches. UBS
Switzerland AG is a public company limited by shares, incorporated in Switzerland with its registered offices at Bahnhofstrasse 45, CH-8001 Zurich. UBS Saudi Arabia (a

subsidiary of UBS AG) is a Saudi closed joint stock company incorporated in the Kingdom of Saudi Arabia with a paid capital of 110,000,000 Saudi Riyals under commercial
register number 1010257812 having its registered office at Laysen Valley, P.O. Box 75724, Riyadh 11588, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia. UBS Saudi Arabia is authorized and
regulated by the Capital Market Authority to conduct securities business under license number 08113-37. This document is distributed only under such circumstances as may

be permitted by applicable laws and regulations. The information and – if any - opinions contained in this document have been compiled or arrived at based upon
information obtained from sources believed to be reliable and in good faith, but is not guaranteed as being accurate, nor is it a complete statement or summary of the
securities, markets or developments referred to in the document. All such information and opinions are subject to changes without notice. Past performance of investments

(whether simulated or actual) is not necessarily an indicator of future results. Forward looking data is based on estimates that are subject to changes. Should the currency of
a financial product or service not match your reference currency, performance may rise or fall due to currency fluctuations. UBS Switzerland AG and / or other members of the
UBS Group may have a position in and may make a purchase and/or sale of any of the securities or other financial instruments mentioned in this document While statements

that constitute “forward-looking statements”, including, but not limited to, statements relating to our future business development represent UBS judgments and future
expectations concerning the development of our business, a number of risks, uncertainties and other important factors could cause actual developments and results to differ
materially from our expectations. This document may not be forwarded, reproduced, redistributed or republished for any purpose without the written permission of UBS

institutional investor, accredited investor, or expert investor, UBS AG is exempted from complying with certain requirements under the Financial Advisers Act 2001 (the
“FAA”), the FAR and the relevant Notices and Guidelines issued thereunder, in respect of any financial advisory service which UBS AG may provide to you. These include
exemptions from complying with: Section 34 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 33(1) of the FAR); Section 36 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 34(1) of the FAR); and

Section 45 of the FAA (pursuant to Regulation 35(1) of the FAR). Singapore recipients and clients of UBS AG, Singapore Branch should contact UBS AG, Singapore Branch for
any matters arising from, or in connection with, this material. Where applicable, this communication and any offering material term sheet, research report, other product or
service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this communication was done so as a result of a request received by UBS from you and/or persons

entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy the communication and Material and
inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in whole or in part in or into your
jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved or endorsed by any financial or regulatory authority in your

jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any investment (including securities or products or
futures contracts). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts) nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any
securities or products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the Material, and by receiving the Material you

undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and exercise due care and discretion in
considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek independent professional advice
in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided on and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon your specific request or executed

upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Spain: This report is distributed in Spain by UBS AG, Sucursal en España,
authorized under number 1460 in the Register by the Banco de España. Sweden: This publication is not intended to constitute a public offer under Swedish law. It is
distributed only for information purposes to clients of UBS Europe SE, Sweden Bankfilial, with place of business at Regeringsgatan 38, 11153 Stockholm, Sweden, registered

### Page 13

with the Swedish Companies Registration Office under Reg. No 516406-1011. UBS Europe SE, Sweden Bankfilial is subject to the joint supervision of the European Central
Bank, the German Central Bank (Deutsche Bundesbank), the German Federal Financial Services Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht,
"BaFin"), as well as of the Swedish supervisory authority (Finansinspektionen), to which this publication has not been submitted for approval. UBS Europe SE is a credit

institution constituted under German law in the form of a Societas Europaea, duly authorized by BaFin. Taiwan: This material is provided by UBS AG, Taipei Branch in
accordance with laws of Taiwan, in agreement with or at the request of clients/prospects.  Thailand: This communication and any offering material, term sheet, research
report, other product or service documentation or any other information (the "Material") sent with this communication were done so as a result of a request received by UBS

from you and/or persons entitled to make the request on your behalf. Should you have received the Material erroneously, UBS asks that you kindly delete/destroy
the communication and Material and inform UBS immediately. The Material, where provided, was provided for your information only and is not to be further distributed in
whole or in part in or into your jurisdiction without the consent of UBS. The Material may not have been reviewed, approved, disapproved, endorsed, registered or filed with

any financial or regulatory authority in your jurisdiction. UBS has not, by virtue of the Material, made available, issued any invitation to subscribe for or to purchase any
investment (including securities or derivatives products). The Material is neither an offer nor a solicitation to enter into any transaction or contract (including future contracts)
nor is it an offer to buy or to sell any securities or derivatives products. The relevant investments will be subject to restrictions and obligations on transfer as set forth in the

Material, and by receiving the Material you undertake to comply fully with such restrictions and obligations. You should carefully study and ensure that you understand and
exercise due care and discretion in considering your investment objective, risk appetite and personal circumstances against the risk of the investment. You are advised to seek
independent professional advice in case of doubt. Any and all advice provided and/or trades executed by UBS pursuant to the Material will only have been provided upon

your specific request or executed upon your specific instructions, as the case may be, and may be deemed as such by UBS and you. Türkiye: The information in this document
is not provided for the purpose of offering, marketing or sale of any capital market instrument or service in the Republic of Türkiye. Therefore, this document may not be
considered as an offer made, or to be made, to residents of the Republic of Türkiye in the Republic of Türkiye. UBS Switzerland AG is not licensed by the Capital Markets Board

of Türkiye (the CMB) under the provisions of the Capital Market Law (Law No. 6362). Accordingly, neither this document nor any other offering material related to the
instrument/service may be utilized in connection with providing any capital market services to persons within the Republic of Türkiye without the prior approval of the CMB.
However, according to article 15 (d) (ii) of the Decree No. 32 residents of the Republic of Türkiye are allowed to purchase or sell the financial instruments traded in financial

markets outside of the Republic of Türkiye. Further to this, pursuant to article 9 of the Communiqué on Principles Regarding Investment Services, Activities and Ancillary
Services No. III-37.1, investment services provided abroad to residents of the Republic of Türkiye based on their own initiative are not restricted. United Arab Emirates
(UAE) / DIFC / Abu Dhabi: UBS is not licensed in the UAE by the Central Bank of the UAE nor by the Emirates’ Securities and Commodities Authority and does not undertake

The investment research may be out of date. You should seek investment advice before acting on the basis of the Investment Research. Abu Dhabi: UBS AG Abu Dhabi
Branch is licensed and regulated by the Financial Services Regulatory Authority (“FSRA”) of the Abu Dhabi Global Market. This material is intended solely for professional
clients or market counterparties, as defined in the rules of the FSRA. It is not directed at, nor intended for, retail clients or any person who does not meet the criteria of a

professional client or market counterparty. United Kingdom: This document is issued by UBS Wealth Management, a division of UBS AG which is authorised and regulated
by the Financial Market Supervisory Authority in Switzerland. In the United Kingdom, UBS AG is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation
by the Financial Conduct Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. Details about the extent of regulation by the Prudential Regulation

UBS is a premier global financial services firm offering wealth management services to individual, corporate and institutional investors. UBS is established in Switzerland and
operates under Swiss law and in over 50 countries and from all major financial centers. UBS is not registered and licensed as a bank/financial institution under Ukrainian
legislation and does not provide banking and other financial services in Ukraine. UBS has not made, and will not make, any offer of the mentioned products to the public in

Ukraine. No action has been taken to authorize an offer of the mentioned products to the public in Ukraine and the distribution of this document shall not constitute financial
services for the purposes of the Law of Ukraine "On Financial Services and Financial Companies" dated 14 December 2021. Any offer of the mentioned products shall not
constitute an investment advice, public offer, circulation, transfer, safekeeping, holding or custody of securities in the territory of Ukraine. Accordingly, nothing in this

document or any other document, information or communication related to the mentioned products shall be interpreted as containing an offer, a public offer or invitation to
offer or to a public offer, or solicitation of securities in the territory of Ukraine or investment advice under Ukrainian law. Electronic communication must not be considered as
an offer to enter into an electronic agreement or other electronic instrument within the meaning of the Law of Ukraine "On Electronic Commerce" dated 3 September 2015.

This document is strictly for private use by its holder and may not be passed on to third parties or otherwise publicly distributed. USA: Distributed to US persons only by UBS
Financial Services Inc. or UBS Securities LLC, subsidiaries of UBS AG. UBS Switzerland AG, UBS Europe SE, UBS Bank, S.A., UBS BB Corretora de Câmbio, Títulos e Valores
Mobiliários S.A., UBS Asesores México, S.A. de C.V., UBS SuMi TRUST Wealth Management Co., Ltd., UBS Wealth Management Israel Ltd. and UBS Menkul Degerler AS are

affiliates of UBS AG.  UBS Financial Services Inc. accepts responsibility for the content of a report prepared by a non-US affiliate when it distributes reports to
US persons. All transactions by a US person in the securities mentioned in this report should be effected through a US-registered broker dealer affiliated with
UBS, and not through a non-US affiliate. The contents of this report have not been and will not be approved by any securities or investment authority in the

United States or elsewhere. UBS Financial Services Inc. is not acting as a municipal advisor to any municipal entity or obligated person within the meaning of
Section 15B of the Securities Exchange Act (the "Municipal Advisor Rule") and the opinions or views contained herein are not intended to be, and do not
constitute, advice within the meaning of the Municipal Advisor Rule.  For information on the ways in which UBS Securities LLC manages conflicts and maintains

ab

---
## Document 179: Anthropic再推Claude 5.5：Sonnet 5.5速度提升超三成，单任务成本最高降三成，性能逼近Opus

Source PDF: all report pdf/Anthropic再推Claude 5.5：Sonnet 5.5速度提升超三成，单任务成本最高降三成，性能逼近Opus.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Claude Sonnet 5.5 是⽐ Opus 5.5 更快、更低成本的补充，是迄今速度最快的 Sonnet 模
型，在低或中等努⼒⽔平下，以约 Sonnet 5 ⼗分之⼀的成本就超过 Sonnet 5 的最佳得分；
⾸次拥有与 Anthropic 最强模型类似的⽹络安全防护机制和 fallback 机制。据独⽴平台
Artificial Analysis 测试， Sonnet 5.5 能⼒逼近 Opus 5.5 ，但在最⾼推理强度下，单任务平
均耗⽤输出 Token 为各模型之最。
摘要：
继上周发布旗舰模型 Claude Opus 5.5 后， Anthropic 再次扩充 Claude 5.5 家族，推出 Opus 5.5 的
低成本替代互补⽅案 Sonnet 5.5 。
美东时间 28 ⽇周⼀， Anthropic 推出 Claude Sonnet 5.5 ，称这是 Claude 5.5 家族的第⼆款模型。
与上⼀代 Sonnet 5 相⽐，新模型输出速度提升超过 30% ，在保持 API 价格不变的情况下，由于完

成相同任务通常所需的 Token 更少，单项任务成本最⾼可下降 30% 。
在多项基准测试中， Sonnet 5.5 在低或中等努⼒⽔平下，以⼤约 Sonnet 5 ⼗分之⼀的成本就超
过了 Sonnet 5 的最佳得分。
Anthropic 表⽰， Sonnet 5.5 尤其适合⽇常知识⼯作、修复代码、制作⽂档、幻灯⽚和电⼦表格
等 “ 边界清晰 ” 的任务，是更强⼤的 Opus 5.5 之外、更快且成本更低的⼯作伙伴。公司同时称，新
模型是迄今速度最快的 Sonnet 模型。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

值得注意的是，第三⽅ AI 基准测试平台 Artificial Analysis 的数据显⽰，在最⾼推理强度下，
Sonnet 5.5 的综合智能指数达到 56 分，仅⽐ Opus 5.5 低 2 分，并在部分智能体和知识⼯作测试中
与 Opus 5.5 基本持平。不过，要达到接近 Opus 5.5 的表现， Sonnet 5.5 也付出了较⾼的 Token 消
耗代价。
不涨价，却能把单任务成本压低三成
Sonnet 5.5 此次最直接的卖点并不是降低 API 标价，⽽是⽤更少的 Token 和更快的⽣成速度完成
相同任务。
Anthropic 表⽰， Sonnet 5.5 的 API 价格与 Sonnet 5 保持⼀致，为每百万 Token 输⼊ 2 美元、输出
10 美元；但在内部测试中，新模型完成相同⼯作通常需要明显更少的 Token ，因此单任务成本最
⾼可以下降 30% 。
与此同时， Sonnet 5.5 的输出速度⽐ Sonnet 5 快 30% 以上。 Anthropic 称，这意味着⽤⼾不仅能

够以相同的 Token 单价获得更快响应，还能够在更多任务中减少模型调⽤和⼯具调⽤次数，从⽽
进⼀步压低实际使⽤成本。
媒体指出， Anthropic 此次强调的 “30% 成本下降 ” 实际上更多来⾃效率提升，⽽⾮价格下调：模
型通过更少的⼯具调⽤、更少的 Token 以及更快的输出速度完成⼯作，因此实际每项任务的成本
下降。
Anthropic 还表⽰，在部分基准测试中， Sonnet 5.5 在 Low 或 Medium 推理强度下，就可以超过
Sonnet 5 此前的最佳成绩，⽽成本约为后者的⼗分之⼀；在另⼀项编程测试中， Sonnet 5.5 在
High 模式下的成绩⽐ Sonnet 5 ⾼约 10 个百分点，但单任务成本约为后者的⼗五分之⼀。

### Page 3

这意味着， Anthropic 此次升级的重点并不是简单地把模型推向 “ 更强 ” ，⽽是试图扩⼤性能 — 成本
曲线上的可⽤区间：对于不需要旗舰模型的⽇常任务，⽤⼾可以⽤较低的推理强度换取更快、
更便宜的结果；⽽在复杂任务上，则可以提⾼推理强度，进⼀步逼近 Opus 级别的能⼒。
第三⽅测试：能⼒逼近 Opus ，但 Token 消耗创纪录
Artificial Analysis 的测试则提供了另⼀幅更复杂的图景。
该平台表⽰， Sonnet 5.5 在其 Intelligence Index 中获得 56 分，在最⾼推理强度下较 Sonnet 5 提
升 18 分，排名仅次于 Opus 5.5 。其在 Terminal-Bench 4.0 中的得分达到 64% ，⾼于 Opus 5.5 和
GPT-6 Astra 的 60% ；在 AA-Briefcase 、 GDPval-AA 和 AutomationBench-AA 等测试中，也与
Opus 5.5 达到近似⽔平。
但 Artificial Analysis 同时指出， Sonnet 5.5 为获得这样的成绩消耗了⾮常多的输出 Token 。

在最⾼推理强度下， Sonnet 5.5 每个 Intelligence Index 任务平均使⽤约 19.3 万个输出 Token ，这
是该平台测试过的模型中最⾼的⽔平，⽐ Opus 5.5 或 Sonnet 5 ⾼出约 60% ，更是 GPT-6 Astra 的
约 7 倍。
这也形成了此次发布⼀个颇值得关注的反差：Sonnet 5.5 的 API 标价没有上涨，但如果⽤⼾选择
最⾼推理强度，模型为了追求更⾼性能所消耗的 Token 可能⼤幅增加。
Artificial Analysis 据此认为，在 “ 智能⽔平 — 单任务成本 ” 的⽐较中， Sonnet 5.5 并⾮所有推理强
度都处于最具成本优势的位置；⾼强度模式下，其性能已经⾮常接近 Opus 5.5 ，但 Token 消耗也
随之明显上升。
不过，这些测试是在 Sonnet 5.5 正式发布前的版本上进⾏的。 Artificial Analysis 表⽰， Anthropic
后来发现该预发布版本存在⼀个可能影响结构化输出请求的 Bug ，并已在正式版本中修复，因此

相关评测还将重新进⾏。由此来看，⽬前第三⽅数据更适合作为参考，⽽⾮最终性能定论。
从 “ 写代码 ” 扩展到办公⽣产⼒

### Page 4

相⽐ Opus 5.5 主要⾯向复杂编程、智能体和知识⼯作， Anthropic 对 Sonnet 5.5 的定位明显更加
偏向⽇常⽣产⼒。
Anthropic 称，新模型擅⻓修复 Bug 、制作经过润⾊的⽂档、幻灯⽚和电⼦表格，同时具备更强
的设计能⼒，可以进⼀步完善⽤⼾界⾯，并根据模板制作只需少量⼈⼯修改的演⽰⽂稿。
公司还特别强调了模型的⽂字表达能⼒。 Anthropic 表⽰，和上⼀代模型相⽐， Sonnet 5.5 能够
写出更加清晰的内容，⽽更快的速度也使其适合快速迭代和多⼈协作。
从产品策略来看，这意味着 Anthropic 并没有试图让 Sonnet 5.5 完全替代 Opus 5.5 ，⽽是进⼀步
拉开两者的产品定位：Opus 承担最复杂、最需要能⼒的任务， Sonnet 则争夺规模更⼤的⽇常
⼯作和⾼频任务。
TechCrunch 也将 Sonnet 5.5 描述为 Anthropic 更偏向⽇常⼯作的 “ 更快、更便宜的⼯作伙伴 ” ，并
指出其重点应⽤场景包括编程和办公⽂档处理。

安全护栏⾸次向 Sonnet 级别下沉
除了速度和成本，安全能⼒也是此次升级的重要变化。
Anthropic 表⽰， Sonnet 5.5 在⾃动化⾏为审计中，⼤多数 alignment 和诚实性指标都优于或持平
Sonnet 5 。同时，新模型⾸次拥有与 Anthropic 最强模型类似的⽹络安全防护机制和 fallback 机
制。
当模型⾯对特定⾼⻛险⽹络安全任务时，可以启⽤更严格的安全护栏并将部分请求转交给其他
模型；⽽对于普通软件开发任务， Anthropic 称这⼀机制不会产⽣影响。
这⼀变化尤其值得关注，因为此前 Sonnet 系列与 Opus 系列在⽹络安全能⼒和安全防护上的定位
存在明显区别。 Anthropic 此次让 Sonnet 5.5 获得更接近旗舰模型的安全机制，也意味着随着中
端模型能⼒越来越接近前沿⽔平，安全控制正在从旗舰模型向更⼴泛的模型层级下沉。
⽽这也延续了 Anthropic 此前发布 Opus 5.5 时的产品思路：模型能⼒提升与安全护栏同步推进。

上周发布的 Opus 5.5 同样强调了⽹络安全等⾼⻛险场景的安全机制。
Claude 5.5 家族还缺最后⼀块拼图
Sonnet 5.5 是 Claude 5.5 家族继 Opus 5.5 之后的第⼆款模型。
Anthropic 表⽰， Sonnet 5.5 现已全⾯上线，未来⼏周还将推出 Claude Haiku 5.5 。届时，
Claude 5.5 家族将进⼀步覆盖从⾼端复杂任务到⽇常⾼频任务、再到更强调速度和成本的不同应
⽤场景。
这也是 Anthropic 近期连续更新模型家族的延续。 9 ⽉ 22 ⽇发布的 Opus 5.5 定位于更⾼端的智能
体编程和知识⼯作，运⾏成本较 Opus 5 下降 40% ；如今 Sonnet 5.5 则在保持原有价格的基础
上，通过降低 Token 消耗和提升速度来降低单任务成本。
从商业化⻆度看， Anthropic 正在将模型竞争的重点从单纯的 “ 谁的基准测试分数更⾼ ” ，进⼀步推
向单位任务成本、响应速度、 Token 效率和安全性。

⽽ Artificial Analysis 此次测试暴露出的另⼀个趋势同样值得关注：当中端模型通过提⾼推理强度
不断逼近旗舰模型时， “ 模型本⾝的 API 价格 ” 可能已经不⾜以衡量真实使⽤成本，完成⼀项任务

### Page 5

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
210 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
究竟需要多少 Token 、多少次⼯具调⽤以及多⻓时间，正在成为 AI 模型商业竞争的新变量。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
江州司⻢
7 ⼩时前 中国上海
0  回复
差距越拉越⼤了

---
## Document 182: Anthropic首席经济学家前瞻“AI未来”：“三大奇点”，“财富分配”与“Token和资本税”

Source PDF: all report pdf/Anthropic首席经济学家前瞻“AI未来”：“三大奇点”，“财富分配”与“Token和资本税”.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 14
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Anthropic ⾸席经济学家 Peter McCrory 表⽰， AI 有望使美国劳动⽣产率飙升 1.8 个百分
点，⽬前的宏观政策或已低估经济增速。在财富分配上，极端情景下劳动收⼊份额将暴跌
15% ，掌握前沿模型的企业或个体将在未来占据绝对的定价权和租⾦获取能⼒。⾯向未
来，他指出要警惕 AI 算⼒垄断（ " 科斯奇点 " ），建议对过度⾃动化征收 "Token 税 " （类⽐碳
税），以平衡资本与劳动分配。
摘要：
AI 对宏观经济的真实冲击正在从 “ 实验模型 ” ⾛向 “ 现实数据 ” ，⾯对尚未体现在⽣产率上的技术红
利，重塑财富分配规则与开征 “Token 税 ” 正成为政策制定者必须直⾯的未来。
2026 年 9 ⽉ 24 ⽇，哈佛⼤学肯尼迪学院举办了⼀场焦点对话。奥巴⻢政府前⾸席经济学家、哈佛
⼤学教授杰森 · 费尔曼（ Jason Furman ）与前沿 AI 实验室 Anthropic ⾸席经济学家彼得 · ⻨克罗伊
（ Peter McCrory ）就 AI 对劳动⼒市场、宏观经济指引及未来政策⾛向的影响展开了深度探讨。

作为业内少有的专⻔针对⼤模型应⽤发布《⼈类经济指数》的研究团队负责⼈，⻨克罗伊基于
Anthropic 海量的底层使⽤数据，向市场揭⽰了 AI 普及过程中的真实阻⼒、潜在的经济增量以及
2030 年的宏观情景。
J 曲线效应与数据中的 “ 消失的失业潮 ”
当前宏观经济的⼀⼤谜团在于： AI 能⼒呈现指数级爆发，但全要素⽣产率（ TFP ）并未⻅显著飙
升，且美国失业率稳定在 4.1% 的历史低位。这种 “ 体感 ” 与宏观数据的错位，引发了市场的强烈
关注。
对此，⻨克罗伊给出了核⼼解释：技术扩散的时滞与 “J 曲线效应 ” 。他指出，虽然 “ 这些模型能
够⾃主完成的任务范围⼤约每四到七个⽉翻⼀番 ” ，但企业在真正获得⽣产⼒红利前，必须经历
⾼昂的重组成本。
“ 要真正释放这项技术可能带来的⽣产⼒提升，还需要进⾏配套投资。能⼒加上背景信息，两者
缺⼀不可。 ” ⻨克罗伊表⽰，⼤型企业受制于数据防⽕墙和组织架构， “ 除⾮你进⾏适当投资，将
这些数据重新整理并提供相关背景信息，否则可能不会产⽣太⼤影响。 ” 各公司⽬前正在经历代价

⾼昂的实验期，这构成了 AI 投资回报的 J 曲线底部。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⽽在就业端，⼤规模失业并未出现。 Anthropic 的数据证实了这⼀点： “ 这看起来更像是⼀种技能
偏向型的劳动增值模式，⽽⾮彻底⾃动化并⼤规模取代⼯作岗位的技术。 ” ⻨克罗伊强调，模型在
解决复杂问题时⾼度依赖⼈类提供的⾼质量输⼊，⼈机协作仍是当前的主流形态。
宏观指引：美联储是否低估了 AI 的增⻓引擎？
围绕未来⼏年的业绩指引和宏观经济增速， Anthropic 团队的测算给出了极具想象空间的预期。
当前，美国国会预算办公室（ CBO ）对未来财政的⻓期增⻓预测为 1.7% ，美联储最乐观的预期
在 2.4% 左右。但在前沿实验室看来，这⼀基准可能过于保守。
⻨克罗伊通过追踪⽤⼾在平台上的真实任务耗时得出结论： “ 基于⽬前的模型和当前的使⽤模
式，劳动⽣产率增⻓率有望提⾼ 1.8 个百分点。 ”
这意味着，如果这些效率提升在未来⼗年内逐步向整个经济体扩散，叠加资本深化的假设，美
国的宏观经济增速有望重返上世纪 90 年代末⾄本世纪初的⾼增⻓时代。费尔曼对此指出，⽬前
未能实现⾃动化的经济环节（即薄弱环节）可能会制约总体规模的⽆限爆发，但⾼达 1.8% 的劳

动⽣产率边际增量，⾜以让现有的货币政策和财政预测框架⾯临重估。
财富分配的重塑：劳动⼒收⼊份额或暴跌 15%
在市场极为关注的 “ 财富分配 ” 和不平等问题上，⻨克罗伊坦⾔， AI ⼤概率会加剧资本与劳动⼒之
间的不平等。
在劳动收⼊内部，虽然 AI 有潜⼒让新⼿快速具备专家能⼒，但实际数据却呈现出另⼀种残酷的现
实： “ 当你查看实际采⽤者的数据时，会发现其主要采⽤群体是⾼薪⾼技能的⼈才。从这个⻆度
来看，我预期这将是⼀种在收⼊层⾯上的普遍现象，或者说不平等会加剧，⽽⾮缩⼩。 ” 专业知识
作为⼀种乘数，正在将顶尖⼈才放⼤为 “ 百倍⼯程师 ” 。
⽽在资本与劳动的博弈中，宏观模型给出了更为警醒的数据指引。随着 AI 驱动的资本深化， “ 在
极端情况下，劳动收⼊份额相对于此前每 1 美元收⼊中 60% 的占⽐，下降了约 15 个百分点。 ” 这意
味着，资本所有者（股东）将从 AI 的经济增⻓中攫取远超以往的回报，⽽劳动所得的国⺠收⼊份
额将⾯临显著萎缩。
前瞻 AI 未来： “ 三⼤奇点 ” 与 “Token 和资本税 ”

⾯向 2030 年，⻨克罗伊将 AI 经济的终局演化总结为 “ 三⼤奇点 ” ：
软件奇点：模型在递归式⾃我改进中变得越来越好。
经济奇点： AI ⾃动化突破传统的增⻓计算模型，挑战 “ 经济能否在有限时间内实现⽆限增⻓ ” 。
科斯奇点： AI 代理（ AI Agents ）的⼤规模应⽤将⼤幅降低交易成本，彻底改变企业边界与经
济交换结构。
在 “ 科斯奇点 ” 的实测中， Anthropic 发现了⼀个极具冲击⼒的现象：“ 更强⼤的模型在与较弱的模
型谈判时，系统性地榨取了更多租⾦；⼈们没有意识到这种谈判⼒量的不对称。 ” 这意味着，掌
握前沿模型的企业或个体将在未来的市场交易中占据绝对的定价权和租⾦获取能⼒。
⾯对上述极端的财富分配和商业结构重塑，⻨克罗伊提出了未来的政策⼲预⽅向 —— 税制改⾰
与 “Token 税 ” 。

### Page 3

“ ⽬前，美国和许多国家的税收结构都侧重于对劳动征税。但如果劳动收⼊份额下降，就需要考
虑其他税收制度，⽐如对消费征税。 ” 更重要的是，为了对冲过度⾃动化对社会造成的负⾯外部
性，⻨克罗伊直⾔： “ 在经济政策框架中，我将代币税（ Token 税）视为⼀种抑制过度采⽤的激
励机制 …… 代币税可以类⽐于碳税或烟草税。 ” 以此来缓解失业冲击并平衡公平与效率。
以下是对谈⽂稿
各位晚上好，欢迎来到哈佛政治学院举办的⼩约翰 ·F· 肯尼迪论坛。我叫摩根 · 杰伊，是⼤学⼆年
级学⽣，主修政治学和历史学，也是学⽣论坛委员会的成员。
在开始之前，请注意⼀下位于公园⼀侧和肯尼迪论坛临街⼀侧的出⼝。如遇紧急情况，请前往
离您最近的出⼝，并在肯尼迪公园集合。今晚的节⽬将进⾏现场直播并在线存档，还将包括观
众问答环节。提问的观众可以⾃愿选择是否表明⾝份，但并⾮必须。现在请将⼿机调⾄静⾳，
和我⼀起欢迎哈佛学院本科⽣佐伊 · ⻉克尔。
各位晚上好，欢迎来到政治学院肯尼迪⻘年论坛。我叫佐伊 · ⻉克尔，是⼀名⼤学⼀年级学⽣，

主修英语，也是论坛委员会成员。
今晚我们欢迎 Anthropic ⾸席经济学家彼得 · ⻨克罗伊。⻨克罗伊领导 Anthropic 的经济研究团队，
该团队专注于研究⼈⼯智能将如何塑造劳动⼒市场及更⼴泛的经济领域。他的团队发布了《⼈
类经济指数》，分享了来⾃前沿实验室的最新研究成果，并研究了各种情景模型，以了解⼈⼯智
能将如何影响未来⼏年不同地区和不同⾏业的发展前景。就在上周，⼈类经济指数发布了⼀个
新的情景模型，展望 2030 年经济的三种不同可能性。
与⻨克罗伊先⽣共同主持论坛的是杰森 · 费尔曼，他是哈佛⼤学肯尼迪学院和哈佛⼤学经济系联
合授予的埃特纳经济政策实践教授，担任莫萨⽡尔 · 罗曼尼商业与政府中⼼主任，同时也是彼得
森国际经济研究所的⾮常驻⾼级研究员。 2013 年⾄ 2017 年，费尔曼担任第 28 任经济顾问委员会
主席，出任奥巴⻢总统的⾸席经济学家。现在，请和我⼀起热烈欢迎今晚的嘉宾和主持⼈。
费尔曼：  很⾼兴能和彼得 · ⻨克罗伊先⽣在这⾥⻅⾯。我读过您很多⽂章，但我们之前从未有过

对话，现在就来⼀场。我有两个对话⽅案，取决于你对第⼀个问题的回答。我只想知道⼀个数
字 ——P Doom 是多少？
⻨克罗伊：  这是⼀个数字吗？
费尔曼：  ⼀个数字。
⻨克罗伊：  我没有这⽅⾯的个⼈数字。
费尔曼：  我的计划是，如果低于 10 ，我就问你关于⼯作和⽣产⼒的问题；如果超过 10 ，我就放
弃之前所有的问题，直接问类似 " 为了⽣存我们应该怎么做 " 这样的问题。
⻨克罗伊：  好的，太好了。那我们可以集中讨论我之前稍微阐述过的那些想法。您能先简要介
绍⼀下 Anthropic 公司⾸席经济学家的职责吗？以及经济学家 —— 不仅是 Anthropic 的，也包括其
他地⽅的经济学家 —— 在思考这个发展速度惊⼈的领域时，应该扮演什么样的⻆⾊？我们通常
研究过去，以便对某件事是否发⽣作出精确的估计，但你花了很多时间写关于未来的事情，这
要难得多。
我看待⾃⼰⼯作以及我的团队正在做的⼯作的⽅式是：我们正试图了解⼈⼯智能的经济影响。
这很有挑战性，因为⼈⼯智能是⼀种通⽤技术，在某种程度上影响着各个⾏业和⼏乎所有职

### Page 4

业，⽽且它的发展速度⾮常快，能⼒提升⾮常迅速。有⼀张著名的仪表图表，我相信您⼀定熟
悉 —— 这些模型能够⾃主完成的任务范围⼤约每四到七个⽉翻⼀番，完成这些任务的时间已经
从⼏个⽉缩短到⼏天。因此，能⼒正在快速提升。
这是⼀项通⽤技术，将以集中的⽅式冲击经济，⽽且普及速度⾮常快，还有其他原因可能导致
它实现创新流程的⾃动化。因此，不确定性不仅体现在对未来的展望上，也体现在当下。
我对我们团队⼯作的思考⽅式是：我们如何才能产⽣只能在 Anthropic 内部进⾏、但⼜应当放到
公共领域的数据和研究？因此，我们⽣成了经济指数 —— 这是⼀个保护隐私的指标，追踪世界
各地的⼈们和企业如何在不同的任务、职业和地域中使⽤ Claude 。我们公开这些信息，希望独
⽴的外部研究⼈员能够利⽤这些数据，并发现其对实时理解这项最重要的技术⼤有裨益。
当然，我们还可以针对最紧迫的问题开展更多研究，这既有助于我们对正在发⽣的事情找到⼀
些合理的答案，或许还能向世界展⽰哪些问题最值得关注。这项⼯作就像公开进⾏研究⼀样，

需要对重要问题给出有启发性的答案。
正如您所说，⼤多数学术研究都围绕着找到⼀个完美的⾃然实验或⼀个设计严谨的随机对照试
验，才能真正帮助分离出新技术或政策的因果效应。我们没有等待⼀两年后才能看到研究成果
的余地，我们需要⼀些关于今天正在发⽣的事情的⻅解。所以我们公开进⾏这项⼯作，也希望
得到反馈和批评，⽽我相信您⼀定能给我⼀些启发，让我带回团队。
费尔曼：  好，我们拭⽬以待。那我就直接说说我的想法。⽬前最⼤的谜团在我看来是这样的，
听听你怎么解释，以及它对未来的影响。⼏年前，我和某家前沿实验室的顶尖专家们交流，他
们向我展⽰了扩展定律，从视觉上把曲线延伸开来，告诉我们 2026 年会⾝处何⽅。我当时翻了
个⽩眼，⼼想，就算处理器多了，也不代表这些东西就会越来越好。公平地说，他们是对的，
⽽且这些能⼒远远超出了他们的预期，甚⾄可能超出了我的预期。
他们还告诉我，基本上这些⼯作现在都没了，对吧？我⼜翻了个⽩眼。我的感觉是，他们现在
应该在西海岸，跟另⼀个⼈讲着完全⼀样的故事，讲述⾃⼰如何被追上，以及⾃⼰是错的。

那么，这是为什么呢？失业率是 4.1% ，基本保持平稳，也是我们⻅过的最低⽔平之⼀。⽣产率
增⻓⽅⾯，你或许可以勉强说它略有回升，但全要素⽣产率并没有真正提⾼。或许可以这么
说，但从经济数据中根本看不出来。这显然与这项技术的规模完全不符。请解释⼀下 —— 我想
先探讨⼀下现在的情况，然后再推断你的解释对未来的影响。就⽬前⽽⾔，为什么经济数据中
没有体现出来？
⻨克罗伊：  这是我在实验室内外都经常⾯对的⼀个难题。正如你所说，研究这些扩展定律⼗多
年的学者们，在预测能⼒⽅⾯做得相当不错，甚⾄像⼗年前对这些模型在 2026 年可能发挥的作
⽤的预测也已成真。⽽且，或许正如你所说，有些⽅⾯已经超过了那些预测。
我认为，也许是⼀个未得到充分重视的⽅⾯ —— ⽽经济学家对此应该更加了解 —— 那就是扩散
的作⽤，这是⼀个漫⻓的过程。如果回顾 20 世纪的通⽤技术发展历程，⼀些学术研究认为，这
项技术⼤约⽤了 50 年时间才扩散到整个经济体系。从这个⻆度来看，即使⽣产⼒⽅⾯出现⼤幅
提升，⽣产⼒⽔平可能会被平滑处理，⽽且更难解析。

当然，⼈⼯智能的普及速度远超以往的技术。我最近也写了⼀篇相关⽂章，标题是《为什么⼈
⼯智能没有导致失业率上升》。我的观察结果是，劳动⽣产率数据表明，在⼈⼯智能应⽤⼴泛的
经济领域，⽣产率增⻓相对更为强劲，并⾮只是眯着眼睛才能勉强看出来的微⼩变化。

### Page 5

但正如您所说，⽬前的失业率已接近美联储认定的最低⽔平，⻩⾦年龄段就业⼈⼝⽐例也已达
到数⼗年来的最⾼⽔平。是什么原因导致我们在许多研究中都看到这种情况？从我们的数据来
看，这看起来更像是⼀种技能偏向型的劳动增值模式，⽽⾮彻底⾃动化并⼤规模取代⼯作岗位
的技术。
根据美国劳⼯部 ONET 分类标准，在美国经济约⼀半的⼯作岗位中，我们看到四分之⼀的任务正
是⼈们使⽤ Claude 来完成的事情。但在整个分类体系中， Claude 并没有在某⼀类⼯作中将每⼀
项任务都⾃动化完成。⼯作中难以⾃动化的关键环节，限制了完全替代⼈⼯的可能性，⼈机协
作因此得以延续。
此外，当我们审视真正在模型输出结果之前发⽣的情况时，也会发现其复杂性。如果我要求
Claude 构建⾮常复杂的⾦融模型，或者我看到有⼈系统地利⽤ Claude 跨任务、跨地域建模，这
些⼈都在提供复杂精细的输⼊。复杂的输出在⼀定程度上依赖于⼈类提供的复杂输⼊。我们发
现有证据表明，当⼈类更深度地参与其中时，模型往往更加成功 —— ⼈们能够解决更难、更复

杂的问题，⽽复杂程度与使⽤⼈⼯智能的成功率之间存在⼀定的权衡关系，因此完全替代的空
间相对有限。
所有这些都指向⼀个⽅向：改变和重组回报结构，回归到不同形式的专业知识，但并⾮彻底导
致⼈⼯智能使劳动者⼤规模失业和⽣活中断。
也就是说，如果你观察经济中那些你可能预期会出现这种情况的领域 —— ⽐如技术作家或数据
分析师的岗位更替，或者⼊⻔级⼯作的颠覆，这类⼯作的核⼼任务正是这些模型已经擅⻓的，
⽽且⽬前还没有太多相关技术被系统性地⽤于⾃动化这类任务 —— 在劳动⼒市场⽅⾯，失业率
并未上升。但这些⼯⼈更有可能表达对未来可能失去⼯作的担忧，这似乎预⽰着未来可能会发
⽣⼀些不好的事情，即使这些情况暂时还未在数据中显⽰出来。
费尔曼：  是的。我同意你的看法，可能其中⼀部分已经体现在⽣产⼒⽅⾯了 —— ⾃ 2019 年以
来，我们的累计⽣产⼒增⻓率达到了 13% 。当然，你可以对此提出异议，究竟其中有多少个百
分点是⼈⼯智能贡献的，半个百分点，还是根本没有，我不太确定，⽽且我觉得这主要不是过
去⼀年发⽣的事情。

你没有提到 J 曲线作为你解释的⼀部分。你知道，我感觉过去六个⽉我写了 90 万⾏代码，这会让
我余⽣都更⾼效，但⾄少从各⽅⾯的产出来看，过去六个⽉的度过⽅式并不理想 —— 除了代码
⾏数之外。有多少企业正在经历类似的情况？也就是说，未来⼀两年内可能会发⽣⼀些根本性
的变化，⽽⽬前这个论点的薄弱之处或许仍然存在。
⻨克罗伊：  这是⼀个很好的观点。我当时正在谈论这⼀点，后来就把它搁置了，我很⾼兴你提
到了这⼀点。⼤约⼀年前，我们研究了企业是如何通过 API 以⾃动化⽅式嵌⼊ Claude 的。 API 模
型本⾝存在⼀些问题，⽐如上下⽂不匹配，或者模型会⾃主执⾏某些操作，也许涉及内部业务
运营、处理或税务报表之类的⼯作。
我们系统地观察到，对于企业正在使⽤的最复杂的任务， Claude 依赖于远多于简单任务所需的
背景信息 —— ⽐如撰写电⼦邮件这样⾮常简单的任务，对背景信息的需求就少得多。这表明，
要真正释放这项技术可能带来的⽣产⼒提升，还需要进⾏配套投资，⽽不仅仅是能⼒本⾝ ——
能⼒加上背景信息，两者缺⼀不可。

想想那些经历了 50 余年积累和发展的⼤型跨国组织，它们的结构⾮常分散，并使⽤防⽕墙来保
护数据。这些数据可能对模型有⽤，但模型本⾝却⽆法获得。除⾮你进⾏适当投资，将这些数
据重新整理并提供相关背景信息，否则可能不会产⽣太⼤影响。组织流程⽅⾯也类似。如果你
想让 Claude 帮你制定销售策略，你可能需要同事脑海中隐藏的隐性信息。如果没有相应的流程

### Page 6

将这些信息提取出来并提供给模型，模型可能难以完成该任务，即使从某种意义上说它确实有
能⼒做到。
我认为这是理解 J 曲线的⼀种⽅式。各公司正在尝试不同的⼯具嵌⼊和部署⽅式，这需要花费⼤
量时间进⾏代价⾼昂的实验，才能找出哪些⽅法有效。或许这种情况会通过创造性破坏在进⼊
市场的边缘地带发⽣ —— 新公司⽆需重新调整现有结构即可获得这种⽣产⼒，它们可以是原⽣
⼈⼯智能的。这⼀切才刚刚开始，因此这或许是了解从现在起⼏年后发展趋势的⼀个切⼊点。
费尔曼：  好，我们来聊聊未来。你最近与⼈合著了⼀篇很棒的论⽂，叫什么来着？《⼈⼯智能
的变⾰性场景》之类的。它的⽅程式⽐在场各位可能希望看到的要多，但第⼀，你可以省略⽅
程式；第⼆，你可以直接交给 Claude ，告诉他 " 重写⼀下，但不要⽅程式 " ，我想你可以得到⼀个
⾮常不错的版本。我并没有这样做，但在场任何⼈都可以尝试。
我想问⼀下你还没有提到的两种情景，它们在你已有的那些情景之外。你所有的情景都包含以
下⼏种组合：更⾼的⽣产率、更⾼的经济增⻓和更⾼的失业率 —— ⽣产率增⻓越多，失业的⼈

越多。
第⼀个问题是，还有没有⽐你所说的更糟糕的情景？⽐如失业很多、⽣活混乱、⼤量⼈员流离
失所，但⽣产⼒却没有增⻓ —— 杜兰 · 阿西莫格鲁认为我们可能会看到这种情况，⽽这不是你的
情景之⼀。
你漏掉的另⼀个情景，对很多经济学家来说都很⾃然，那就是⽣产率增⻓与取代⼯作岗位⽆
关。从历史上看，更⾼的⽣产率并不必然与任何⾏业的较⾼失业率相关，甚⾄在转型期，失业
率也可能降低。你认为这次为什么更⾼的⽣产率会导致更⾼的失业率？先把这部分搞定，我们
再来谈你的各种情景。
⻨克罗伊：  这篇论⽂的⽬标，以及与之配套的交互式情景探索器 —— ⽐论⽂中的所有⽅程式都
更容易上⼿，我⿎励⼤家去查看 —— 是⼀个设计精美的⽹站，⽆需查看任何数学公式，它会引
导你理解模型的⼯作原理。
其思路是，经济由我们每个⼈在⽇常⽣活中所做的各种不同任务构成，包括撰写电⼦邮件、进
⾏统计分析、与同事沟通、帮助病⼈，以及作为医疗保健⼯作者所做的各种事情。然后你可以
思考⼈⼯智能如何影响整个经济体中的各项任务。其中有五项关键投⼊：第⼀，这些模型能够

做什么；第⼆，它们在整个经济体中的普及速度如何；第三，⼈⼯智能是否被⼴泛应⽤ —— 顺
便提⼀下，这些情景设想的是到 2030 年为⽌的情况，已经是⾮常近的未来，并⾮超级未来主义
的那种。
费尔曼：  是的。
⻨克罗伊：  我们实际上把时间线设在了 2030 年，因为再往后就需要考虑⼈⼯智能对机器⼈技术
的影响，以及这类影响所带来的⼴泛不确定性。我们先聚焦于近期的不确定性。
⾃主性是指以⾃动化⽅式应⽤⼈⼯智能，这可以在劳动⼒市场中实现普及和替代，但⽣产⼒却
没有显著提⾼。第四个输⼊项是：使⽤⼈⼯智能后，你的效率提⾼了多少？第五，对于失业⼯
⼈来说转岗有多难 —— 如果你因为⼈⼯智能⽽失业，需要换⼀份新⼯作，对你来说找新⼯作有
多难？也许这取决于培训，或者说需要时间来适应。
本⽂重点讨论的情景只是许多可能情景中的⼀部分。根据你如何配置这些输⼊，你实际上可以
得到⼀个看起来很像某种特定情景的结果。例如，⼈⼯智能以⾃动化⽅式应⽤，但实际上对⽣

### Page 7

产率的边际提升作⽤甚微，从⽽导致⼈员更替，⽽整体收益并没有太⼤改善，⼯⼈仍然需要重
新分配到经济中那些没有感受到⽣产⼒提升的部⻔。
这篇论⽂的⽬标在于促进讨论。有趣的是，报告发出后，⼀些⼈批评我们没有设定更极端的情
况，认为⾃动化和颠覆性创新理应⾛得更远；但也有⼈批评我们纳⼊了实质性的极端情况。
关于第⼆点 ——⼈⼯智能与以往技术相⽐可能有哪些不同之处 —— 我认为关键在于其影响范围
之⼴，以及它在整个经济领域被迅速采纳的速度。美国经济韧性很强，我们在疫情期间学到了
很多这⽅⾯的内容，经济能够承受冲击。总体⽽⾔，任何⼀个⽉内就业岗位的流⼊和流出量⼤
约为 1000 万个，但净影响 —— 备受关注的那个数字 —— 可能在 5 万到 10 万之间。因此，经济可以
调整和应对冲击，但这次的冲击或许⽐经济通常能够容纳的还要⼤。
⽽且，因为它会产⽣如此巨⼤的重新配置⼒量，需要⼤量⼯⼈从经济中⾃动化程度较⾼的部分
向⾃动化程度较低的部分转移，劳动⼒市场中的摩擦是导致各种情况下失业率上升的根本原
因，尤其是在极端情况下。

你知道，有⼀种观点认为，我们拥有数百年的技术进步经验，如今农⺠已经消失，⽽且谁也⽆
法想象现在每个⼈都在做什么，但⼤家似乎仍然像今天这样运转。这件事也会是⼀样。
另⼀⽅⾯，也有⼈认为，你⽆法想象有⼈会再次⼯作。我想有⼈甚⾄谈到过，⼤约 50% 的⽩领
⼯作岗位将在 1 到 5 年内消失，他第⼀次说这话是将近⼀年多以前。我们⽬前看到的数据是否⽀
持这两种情况中的任何⼀种，或者现在下结论还为时过早？
我认为，就像那些预测范围⼀样 —— 这正是这项⼯作的动机所在 —— 要实现极端情景，必须满
⾜哪些条件？在极端情况下， GDP 增⻓加速⾄前所未有的程度，即同⽐增⻓幅度达到 15% ，整
体失业率上升⾄ 12% 。要达到类似⽔平，你需要极其迅速的能⼒提升，以便超越绝⼤多数知识
型⼯作 —— ⽽这些⼯作是⼈⼯智能系统可以胜任的，⽽且需要被⼴泛采⽤，以⾃动化⽅式快速
扩散。
我认为⽬前的数据证据表明，能⼒进步的速度与⾃动化扩散的速度并不⼀致。但即使在三种不
同情境下，各情景的预测结果要到明年才会真正出现分歧。你发布这项研究的部分原因正在于

此 —— 现在就发布，这样你就可以对照实际出现的数据进⾏跟踪，并开始弄清楚我们可能会朝
着哪种⽅向发展。
费尔曼：  为了将你的⼀些设想置于⼈们思考这些问题的⽅式之中，你保守估计的增⻓率是每年
2.4% 。美联储公开市场委员会负责决定利率，他们每隔⼏个⽉发布⼀次预测，最后⼀次发布的
数字是 2.4% ，可能是接下来四年中最乐观的，甚⾄⽐最乐观的⼈还要乐观 —— 他们的核⼼观点
更接近于 2% 。国会预算办公室在预算分析和预测⽅⾯备受尊敬和信赖，他们对我国财政状况未
来⾛向的分析是基于 1.7% 的增⻓率。你知道， 2.4% 听起来可能和 1.7% 或 2.1% 没什么太⼤区
别，但如果你在美联储⼯作或做预算分析，差异就⼤不相同了。所以你所谓的 " 适度 " ，在那些⼈
眼⾥充满了乐观⾊彩。
现在我要去另⼀端了 —— 在你所在的社区听到⼈们谈论每年增⻓ 100% 并不罕⻅，我认为这可能
很难放⼊你的模拟器。所以，美联储在货币政策⽅⾯是不是犯了个⼤错？国会预算办公室也
是？这让我们对财政状况的担忧⽐实际应该的更多，还是说他们只是对此⼀⽆所知？

⻨克罗伊：  你提到要回顾历史，我认为这⾮常有价值。尤其是在漫⻓的 20 世纪， 1870 年⾄ 2010
年，查德 · 琼斯 —— 他也是情景探索器的团队成员之⼀ —— 将其描述为经济的规模定律：尽管经
历了令⼈难以置信的结构调整，美国经济在 140 年间平均增⻓率仍为 2% ，伴随着过去⼯作的⼴
泛⾃动化以及新型⼯作类型的⼤量出现。

### Page 8

所以我认为，参与这场讨论时，你需要保持相当的谦逊态度，将基准设定在 2% 以内，这是⼀个
⾮常合理的基准。我们就是这样做的，⽽且在过去 20 年左右的时间⾥，发达经济体的⽣产率增
⻓放缓，⾯临各种不利因素，这是许多经济学家在 2010 年代后期⼴泛撰写和讨论的著名话题。
所以我认为，在这种背景下，即使是较为保守的预测也是⼀种乐观的估计。
我试图理解这⼀点的⽅式是，我们确实在 11 ⽉份做过⼀个分析，研究了⼈们如何使⽤ Claude ，
并估算了如果没有⼈⼯智能，某⼈完成 Claude 正在做的事情需要多少时间。做⼀篇⽂献综述可
能需要好⼏天时间， Claude 可以在五到⼗分钟内完成，速度提升惊⼈。⽤这种⽅式来处理⼈们
要求 Claude 做的各种事情，然后使⽤标准的宏观增⻓会计技术（感兴趣的⼈可以查阅霍尔顿定
理相关⽂献），汇总这些任务层⾯的效率提升对未来⼗年劳动⽣产率的影响 —— 如果扩散需要那
么⻓时间的话。
基于⽬前的模型和当前的使⽤模式，劳动⽣产率增⻓率有望提⾼ 1.8 个百分点。这岂不意味

着 …… ⽽且这似乎也考虑到了⼀些资本深化假设，在此基础上再增加 1.8 个百分点？
费尔曼：  没错，否则会发⽣什么，⼤概是 1.5 左右，具体取决于情况。
⻨克罗伊：  是的，就是这样。那将⼤致使我们回到上世纪 90 年代末和本世纪初的盛⾏状态，并
且与适度，甚⾄略超适度的情景更加⼀致。我想我对这个数字有所保留，但我认为它像是⼀个
有⽤的框架，可以帮助了解基于我们对⽤⼾的观察，潜在影响的程度可能有多⼤ —— 这些⽤⼾
是那些正在尝试和学习如何使⽤这些⼯具的⼈，⽽这种尝试和学习如何使⽤会扩散到整个经济
体系中。如果这些⽣产率的提⾼得以实现，你可能会期待在这个量级上有所进展。
简⽽⾔之，你认为美联储和国会预算办公室有点脱离实际，因为如果出现任何这种情况，我们
就只能根据过于保守的预测来制定货币和财政政策。
费尔曼：  我不会这样说。我会说，对增⻓和⽣产⼒的潜在影响相当可观。虽然存在各种不利因
素，但反事实是什么？我是指过去 150 年⾥那 2% 的变化，或许正是必要的创新才使我们保持了
那样的发展速度。所以，这或许只是另⼀系列让我们保持这种发展轨迹的创新，或许还存在某

种其他根本性的制约⼒量，阻⽌我们进⼀步加速。由此可⻅，薄弱环节的制约⼒量可能会⾮常
显著。
斯坦福⼤学的查德 · 琼斯和克⾥斯 · 德内蒂提出了另⼀种模型，其中设想摩尔定律在某种程度上适
⽤于经济的各个⽅⾯。⾃动化速度⾮常快，即使增⻓⽆限，时间有限，经济最终在未来 30 年左
右的增⻓率也约为 2.5% 、 2.6% 或 6% ，因为其他⽆法⾃动化的事情会阻碍增⻓速度。
⻨克罗伊：  没错。当某个东西是⽆限的时候，它在两个时间段内都会变得⾮常⼤，与其价格下
降⽆关，它在增⻓计算中的重要性会降低，并被其他所有因素所掩盖。
费尔曼：  是的。我看到西北⼤学的本 · 琼斯把它描述成这样：接受这种模型，其中这些薄弱环节
在某种程度上结合在⼀起，然后你会发现，仅⼀半的经济就能实现⽆限增⻓，但它只会使整体
经济规模翻倍。那些你未能实现⾃动化的事物，会极⼤地制约经济的总体影响。我们可以在⼀
些关于⼈⼯智能影响的新兴⽂献中看到这⽅⾯的证据。
今年早些时候，⼀些研究⼈员发表了⼀篇论⽂，探讨了引⼊编码代理（如 Claude Code ）的问题

—— ⽣成的代码⾏数增加了约 20 倍，但软件输出或软件发布只增⻓了 30% 。这差距相当⼤。
⻨克罗伊：  是的。听起来你好像准备说那些关于同事的刻薄话，他们以为公司年增⻓率能达到
100% ，但实际上并⾮如此。他们对能⼒的看法与你并⽆不同，只是对经济运作⽅式的了解不如

### Page 9

你 —— 如何将这些能⼒转化为增⻓。我认为我的基本情况看起来更接近经济学家的典型观点，
但我的误差范围很⼤。
所以我想了解我和那些⼀直在关注这项技术的⼈之间分歧的根源是什么。情景探索器是我理解
这个问题的⼀种途径。我跟实验室内部⼈员交流后的感觉是，分歧主要体现在能⼒、采⽤和⾃
动化⽅⾯的输⼊上，⽽较少关注将这些输⼊转化为产出的潜在经济机制。
费尔曼：  好的。接下来我想问你关于不平等的问题 —— 不平等有两种类型。其⼀是劳动收⼊内
部的不平等，例如，如果管理⼈员的收⼊远⾼于⼀线⼯⼈，⽽⼀线⼯⼈的收⼊相同，这就是不
平等。其⼆是资本与劳动之间的不平等 —— 如果股票持有者能获得更⾼的回报，⽽其他⼈则不
然，顺便说⼀句，富⼈持有的股票更多，这会加剧不平等。
我们先来谈谈劳动⼒不平等问题。您预测⼈⼯智能将对劳动⼒不平等产⽣何种影响？这种影响
的不确定性有多⼤ —— 包括⽅向和幅度？
⻨克罗伊：  我对⽅向和幅度都不确定，这是对所有这类问题最诚实的回答。
费尔曼：  是的，这是⼀个很棒的经济学家式回答。

⻨克罗伊：  我的回答是这样的：有⼀些优秀的论⽂基于随机对照试验表明，⼈⼯智能可以帮助
原本更像新⼿的⼈变得更像专家。但当你查看实际采⽤者的数据时，会发现其主要采⽤群体是
⾼薪⾼技能的⼈才。从这个⻆度来看，我预期这将是⼀种在收⼊层⾯上的普遍现象，或者说不
平等会加剧，⽽⾮缩⼩。
但我之所以对此感到不确定，是因为⼈⼯智能的部分功能不仅仅是加快速度或帮助你更快地完
成某件事，它还拓宽了你能够做到的事情的范围。在我们对全球约 81,000 ⼈进⾏的调查中，询
问他们关于⼈⼯智能的各种问题，当⼈们谈到⼈⼯智能带来的⽣产⼒提升时，他们更常提及 " 拓
展了我的能⼒范围，让我能够做以前做不到的事情 " 。这或许是⼀种均衡⼒量，通过强制你获得
与你互补的特定专业知识，来压缩收⼊分配。
费尔曼：  是的，也许我就说到这⾥吧。亚历克斯 · 伊姆斯，他在 DeepMind 担任类似的⻆⾊，是
⼀位⾮常聪明、⾮常有创造⼒的经济学家，他⼀直在谈论这样做如何帮助技能较差的⼈提⾼技
能，还滔滔不绝地讲述他运⽤这项技术的种种⽅式，极具远⻅卓识。据我所知，它能将你的才

华放⼤⼗倍，⽽且是以别⼈想不到的⽅式实现的。
所以你认为这种情况 ——" 糟糕的作家变成优秀的作家，⽽伟⼤的作家得到的帮助微乎其微 "——
是⽐另⼀种情况更为普遍的现象吗？
⻨克罗伊：  我认为有两种⼒量同时存在。⼀种⼒量是 10 倍放⼤ —— 软件⼯程师可以成为百倍软
件⼯程师。我想这⽅⾯应该有⼀些轶事证据，我们的研究也提供了⼀些暗⽰性证据，这些证据
基于领域专业知识的交互作⽤，指向了这⼀⽅向。例如，如果能有效利⽤ Claude Code ，那么第
⼆个问题是， 10 倍⼯程师是否⽐其他⼈更有可能采⽤⼈⼯智能 —— 即使⼯程师⼈数翻倍，⽣产
⼒提升幅度相同，如果采纳率因先前已存在的技能和专业知识差异⽽有所不同，那么专业知识
就可能成为⼀股强⼤的⼒量，不断扩⼤劳动⼒市场的不平等。
费尔曼：  现在我们来谈谈劳动收⼊和资本收⼊之间的不平等。这⽅⾯的数据⾮常清楚 —— 失业
率不会反映这⼀点，⽣产率增⻓也不会反映这⼀点，但股票市场已经反映出来了。当我研究经
济模型时，包括你们的每⼀个模型，以及我尝试过的⼏种⽅案，都显⽰资本回报率更⾼，但劳

动所得的收⼊份额下降，⽤于资本的收⼊份额上升。鉴于拥有资本的⼈境况已经更好，所有这
些都意味着不平等现象⽇益加剧。这是对未来数据的正确预期吗？

### Page 10

⻨克罗伊：  这是⼀个很好的问题。值得⼀提的是，能在论坛上讨论经济模型，⽽且参与⼈数也
创下了经济讨论的纪录，我很荣幸能来到这⾥，也希望⼤家乐在其中，能从这些讨论中有所收
获，我⾃⼰当然也从这些问题中学到了很多。
在模型中，决定资本回报率的因素是资本弹性。在标准模型中，你可能会认为资本是⽆限弹性
的，在那种情况下，所有的收益都会归劳动者所有，你就不会看到劳动收⼊份额下降的情况。
我之前就警告过你，这会像我们两个⼈之间的谈话，我们会假装你们不在场。
这种材料具有⽆限的弹性，很难获得所需的⼯⼚，扩建也同样困难。为满⾜这种巨⼤的投资需
求，需要提供充⾜的资本。如果这种调整更难发⽣，就会产⽣更强的向下趋势，对劳动收⼊份
额形成压⼒。在极端情况下，劳动收⼊份额相对于此前每 1 美元收⼊中 60% 的占⽐，下降了约 15
个百分点。
接下来我想先谈谈公共政策，然后再回答⼤家的问题。
想想⼀系列政策问题。其中⼀个是，这些模型可能会制造出能杀死所有⼈的武器。对此，⼀种
解决办法是告诉前沿实验室：你们⽆权这样做；另⼀种说法是，让他们放⼿去做，由政府给每

个⼈发防毒⾯具。
⽐武器更棘⼿的问题，是纵容学⽣作弊，⽽这个问题的解决⽅案留下了⼀个令⼈不安的余地。
其中⼀个解决⽅案是制定法规，告诉实验室不能帮助学⽣作弊，也不能回答他们的问题。另⼀
个⽅案是切换到课堂考试模式。对于第⼀个⽅案，我持保留态度 —— 因为根本⽆法确定问题是
谁提出的、出于什么⽬的。所以，唯⼀现实的解决⽅案，是⼤学通过改为课堂考试或其他⽅式
在内部解决这个问题。
说到就业，它在这条连续谱上处于什么位置？你造成的破坏是必然的，政策制定者需要负责收
拾残局，之后可以通过全⺠基本收⼊、培训计划、⼯资补贴或其他⽅式加以应对。相反，你实
际上也可以主动介⼊，引导这些模型朝着某个⽅向发展 —— 让它们不是取代⼈，⽽是增强⼈的
能⼒；不是训练它们像⼈⼀样，⽽是训练它们来帮助⼈。也许监管能够促使你这样做。
那么，说到我们⼀直在讨论的问题 —— 谁来清理那些烂摊⼦？
我认为可以从⼏个⻆度来回答这个问题。⾸先，要认识到⼈⼯智能对经济的影响总体上⾼度不
确定，⽽我们能做什么、已经做了什么，同样值得认真考量。在 Anthropic ，我和我的团队有责

任产出能够提供帮助的数据和研究，帮助我们了解这项技术如何影响经济⽣产和劳动。这⼀努
⼒旨在帮助⼈们了解哪些技能可能变得越来越重要，哪些技能可能变得不那么相关。
更重要的是，要赋予社会做出这些选择的能⼒，⽽不是由我们单⽅⾯决定。因此，这项技术的
影响，既取决于能⼒进步的⽅向，也取决于我们作为社会所做出的选择。我在团队中的⽬标，
就是帮助社会做出更好的决策。
就我们团队的实际⼯作⽽⾔，我们主要且历来专注于数据⽣成和研究。我之前也写过⼀些相关
内容，在今年早些时候发布在推特上 —— 我想运⽤经济学的⼯具，帮助我们理解⾃⾝决策的影
响，从⽽更清晰地把握我们所做决定中可能隐含的公共利益与商业利益之间的权衡。
⽤经济学⽂献的语⾔来说，⼀种思路是：能否将 " 定向技术变⾰ " 付诸实践？我其实不确定这是否
可⾏，但我的团队有机会探索这种可能性。定向技术变⾰，指的是引导技术发展以增强劳动
⼒，⽽⾮直接取代劳动⼒。

### Page 11

有⼈问过：什么是 " 增强 " ，什么是 " 替代 " ？如果你是我的研究助理，那到底是替代了你，还是增
强了你？我认为在这个例⼦中，答案是它增强了你 …… ⼜或者，它取代了⼯⼈，就像取代了你
的研究助理⼀样。
这其实是⼀个很好的例⼦，说明⼈⼯智能在我们探讨的场景中可能造成的冲击。⽽且，即便从
任务层⾯来看，也并不总是清晰的 ——Claude 的作⽤，究竟只是⾃动化⼈们交给它的任务，还
是真正改变了⼯作的性质？
你描述的情况，是你正在被增强，这会改变对某些类型专业知识的回报，以及与你所拥有技能
的互补关系。从历史上看，新技术⾃动化取代了部分⼯作，催⽣了新的⼯作形式，也推动了⼯
作内容的重新整合。这个问题⾄今仍不清晰。我觉得这是⼀个真正的难题，值得我们认真去理
解。
我们对此有任何影响⼒吗？可能有很多种情况。其⼀，政府可能制定相关规定，禁⽌科技产品
做某些事情。其⼆，由企业主动承担这件事 —— 如果 Anthropic ⾃⼰承担，我们能否确保其他实
验室也跟进？另外，我们的产品也被很多其他⼈⽤于开发各种产品，因此影响会更为⼴泛。其

三，如果我们并不完全了解情况，是否应该继续尝试？通常，当我们不理解某件事时，往往倾
向于不进⾏监管，⽽是让市场和分散的知识⾃⾏解决。
例如，当我们不知道改进某个环节是否会在其他环节创造更多就业机会时，我们⾯临的是⼀个
动态过程，⽽贸然⼲预可能适得其反。那么，⽆知与不确定性应该如何纳⼊经济领域的监管？
这与安全领域的监管不同。我认为，如果监管者⾃⼰都不清楚在做什么，就很可能会搞砸⼀些
事情。
从某种意义上说，我们试图产⽣的数据和研究，正是为了更清晰地解答这些问题，或许可以通
过考察我们⾃⾝决策的影响来找到答案。这类研究最终形成了⼀些经济指数 —— 例如斯坦福数
字经济实验室就使⽤了相关指数，研究年轻劳动者的就业轨迹。他们记录到，与我们平台上的
⾃动化使⽤相关的年轻劳动者，就业前景更差。我对这种因果关系的解释并不完全信服，但这
确实表明这些数据可⽤于厘清各种影响因素。
在政策应对⽅⾯，我总体上同意：应该制定能够应对这种不确定性、并能适应不确定性变化的
政策。就就业问题⽽⾔，我认为政策制定者需要应对的根本性权衡是：我们⾯临的，究竟是⼀

种失业率低、职业流动性⾼、转型更频繁也更剧烈的局⾯，还是⼀种伴随经济快速增⻓的、衰
退级别的失业率？
我认为耶鲁预算实验室的⼀个很好的洞⻅，是以⼈员流动率来衡量⼈⼯智能的影响。如果你专
注于保障⼯⼈权益，或许可以促成那段充满变数的过渡期，但整体变动的规模可能过⼤。这或
许是激励企业通过留任补贴、再培训补贴等⽅式留住员⼯的理由之⼀。
但究竟哪些政策组合才是合理的，⽬前仍存在很多不确定性。⾯对这种不确定性，对各种⽅案
的有效性保持谦逊态度是必要的。我们希望，数据能够极⼤地帮助我们构建各种场景。
现在进⼊提问环节。因为在场⼈数众多，我会⼀次收三个问题再统⼀回答，请⼤家提问时尽量
简短，并先做⾃我介绍。
问题⼀（迭⼽ · 萨⻔托，哈佛法学院⼆年级学⽣，来⾃南加州）：我的问题涉及政府公共政策理
念，以及⼈⼯智能对军事的影响。今年早些时候，美国曾使⽤⼈⼯智能辅助打击⼿段，⽽五⻆
⼤楼最近的⼀项调查结果表明，⼈⼯智能被⽤于通过搭便⻋模型来确定打击⽬标。我的问题
是：作为⼀家致⼒于安全的公司的⼀员，您是否认同现⾏的 " ⼈类在回路中 " 这⼀规定？还是认为

应该设⽴更⾼标准，⽐如直接禁⽌⼈⼯智能被⽤于针对任何⽬标？

### Page 12

问题⼆（利亚姆 · 达姆吉，肯尼迪商学院⼯商管理硕⼠学⽣）：我的问题更多是从竞争和市场⼒量
的⻆度出发。正如我们之前所说，当前存在⼤型垄断企业，唯⼀阻碍⼈⼯智能⼴泛应⽤的是来
⾃组织和数据⻆度的信息孤岛。您认为⼈⼯智能会加剧⼤型企业的市场权⼒集中，还是会通过
敏捷的⼈⼯智能原⽣企业⾸次进⼊市场⽽分散竞争格局？
问题三（阿克奎兰）：我花了很多时间思考机器学习模型训练后的定价问题。您谈了很多宏观经
济模型，但我很好奇，当我们思考 " 智能的定价 " 这⼀问题时，传统的宏观和微观经济模型可能会
发⽣怎样的变化？
⾸先，我加⼊ Anthropic 的原因之⼀，是相信这家公司⾮常重视明确这项技术的⻛险与收益，并
致⼒于 —— 甚⾄不惜付出代价 —— 尽可能降低⻛险。我不了解每⼀个具体情况，但我很感激能
在⼀家敢于认真承担这些⻛险的公司⼯作。真的，我们必须把它做好。这也是所谓 " 薄弱环节模
型 " 的体现 —— 在某种程度上，延迟经济利益的实现，也可能意味着提前承担⼀些滥⽤和恶意使
⽤的⻛险。我会尽我所能，在经济层⾯帮助我们应对这些⻛险与收益，确保好处惠及范围⼴、

⻛险降到最低，且不造成不公平的分配。感谢这个问题。
关于公司规模与⼈⼯智能影响的问题，我认为这是⼀个开放性问题。⼀⽅⾯，⼈⼯智能似乎能
提⾼规模经济带来的收益 —— 你做的事情越多，你就能集中管理更多的信息，从⽽在⽇益⼴泛
的活动中保持⾼效。另⼀⽅⾯，准⼊⻔槛要低得多 —— 成⽴⼀家⼀⼈公司要容易得多，这种模
式扩展速度⾮常快，⼀个⼈就可以接触到⽹站开发、会计、⼈⼒资源等运营公司所需的⼀切资
源。
雷姆 · 科宁和她的合作者们提供了⼀些证据，他们研究了⼈⼯智能原⽣公司的组织结构，发现这
些公司在既定规模下以较少的⼈员运营。⽬前形势仍然不明朗。数据显⽰创业公司数量⼤幅增
⻓，这可能与⼈⼯智能的普及有关。
不过，有⼀点值得注意：这种宏观经济层⾯的变化恰好出现在疫情初期，彼时商业活动波动剧
烈，新企业成⽴数量激增，劳动⽣产率也随之飙升 —— ⽽这些变化显然不完全是⼈⼯智能驱动
的。其中有多少来⾃⼈⼯智能，有多少来⾃远程办公以及新的组织架构，仍是悬⽽未决的问
题。
关于智能定价的问题，有⼀点是明确的：给定⽔平的智能，其成本正在急剧下降。但这种智能

的边际收益是多少，仍然不清楚。这是⼀个真正开放的问题，我⽬前没有确定性的答案。
第⼆轮提问
问题⼀（索尼娅 · 弗雷尔 · ⽪尔森，商学院 / 肯尼迪学院双学位学⽣）：您稍微谈到了您最近写的那
篇论⽂，我想知道，在那些不那么灾难性的情景下，您如何在经济模型中考量那些真正奇怪、
难以预测的经济后果 —— ⽐如⼤量 AI 代理在互联⽹上活动、我们⽆法确定原因和影响的情况？
问题⼆（ Alex ，公共政策学⽣）：我对税收很感兴趣。 Anthropic 领导层曾提议新的税收制度，您
认为这种制度在美国及其他国家如何运作？⽐如对训练数据做出贡献的主体，应如何征税？
问题三（关于报告预测与机器⼈技术）：您的报告预测到 2030 年，举的例⼦是⼈⼯智能⽬前还⽆
法完成的体⼒任务。我很好奇您对未来⼈⼯智能与⼈类合作、以及机器⼈技术⾃主化的看法
—— 哪些⼯作会被取代，哪些不会？
⾸先，我认为我们研究⽅向的重点，是认真对待那些范围宽泛、真正奇怪的不确定性。我喜欢
从各种可能出现的 " 奇点 " ⻆度来思考未来，并试图理解塑造未来的经济⼒量。

### Page 13

其中⼀个奇点，是 " 软件奇点 "—— 这些⼈⼯智能系统正在变得越来越好， Anthropic 最近发布的
证据表明，这些模型在⾃我改进⽅⾯做得越来越好，这⼀过程有时被称为 " 递归式⾃我改进 " ，其
经济影响值得深⼊探讨。
第⼆个是 " 经济奇点 "—— 究竟是什么⼒量决定了经济能否在有限时间内实现⽆限增⻓？这前所未
有。如果你将这些模型所代表的创新⾃动化程度纳⼊考量，就会得到在其他⽅⾯都属于标准模
型的场景。那么，标准模型在哪⾥会失效？我们对创新的理解在哪⾥出了偏差？
第三个是 " 科斯奇点 "—— 当越来越多的代理⼈能够代表你采取复杂⾏动并与交易对⼿进⾏谈判
时，交易成本在某些领域急剧下降，企业边界与经济交换结构将发⽣怎样的变化？我们对此做
了⼀些探索性研究。我们在春天发布了⼀个叫做 " 交易项⽬ " 的实验，让 Claude 采访⼀些⼈，询问
他们家中有哪些物品愿意出售或可能有兴趣购买，然后建⽴⼀个集中式市场，供代理商相互交
流并完成交易。
这个实验产⽣了⼀些有趣的发现：更强⼤的模型在与较弱的模型谈判时，系统性地榨取了更多

租⾦；⼈们没有意识到这种谈判⼒量的不对称；⼈们潜在的偏好，在访谈中没有完全表达清
楚，但却体现在模型为他们选择购买的物品上 —— 例如，某⼈的 AI 代理买了⼀块他已经拥有的滑
雪板，尽管他并没有明确表⽰喜欢滑雪。这引发了⼀些关于谁能获取前沿模型、以及这如何影
响谈判⼒量、进⽽带来⾦融和经济后果的重要问题。
关于税收政策，这⼜回到了劳动收⼊份额与资本收⼊份额的问题。⽬前，美国和许多国家的税
收结构都侧重于对劳动征税。但如果劳动收⼊份额下降，就需要考虑其他税收制度。⼀种标准
模式是对消费征税，这与对家庭劳动⼒供给决策征税有所不同，对消费征税可能是⼀种应对⽅
式，但还需要更多研究来考虑其他潜在的政策应对措施。
关于 " 代币税 " ，我的简短回答是：在经济政策框架中，我将代币税视为⼀种抑制过度采⽤的激励
机制。⻢丁 · ⻉拉在伯克利写过⼀篇很棒的论⽂，探讨企业不会将⾃动化的外部性内部化这⼀问
题 —— 在类似⾦融约束的世界中，⼈们难以缓解失业冲击，因此对⾃动化征税，不仅有公平⽅
⾯的理由，也有效率⽅⾯的考量。代币税可以类⽐于碳税或烟草税。

关于机器⼈技术与 2030 年的预测，这正是我们将模型或情景设定在 2030 年的原因 —— ⾄少在未
来⼏年内，不确定性⾜够⼤，我们希望将精⼒集中在这个时间框架内。但原则上，这是⼀个允
许我们在未来迭代中纳⼊机器⼈技术考量的框架，机器⼈技术的建模应被视为优先级很⾼的议
题。当然，还必须将资本的物质积累，与⾮物质智能的普遍性和可⽤性区别对待。这是个⾮常
好的问题。
最后⼀个问题
提问者（⽡妮莎，经济学与教育学专业，今年五⽉刚毕业）：关于获取途径，我很想听听您对以
下问题的看法：⼈⼯智能将改变劳动⼒市场所重视的技能，从⽽影响不平等格局，但学校并没
有做好同等准备来帮助学⽣顺利过渡。
这是⼀个⾮常⾮常重要且悬⽽未决的问题，涉及技能习得、⼈⼒资本获取，以及对⼈类发展的
影响。我们⾃⼰在这⽅⾯的研究相对较少，但从我们的数据中确实可以看到⼀些线索。
我们在研究中尝试对产品的主要⽤途进⾏分类 —— ⽐如，有⼈在凌晨三点搜索睡眠建议，那主
要是个⼈⽤途；或者⽤于办公，或者⽤于学习。我们发现，学习⽤例在低收⼊国家实际上更为

普遍。因此，我认为⼈⼒资本的获取实际上具有全球性意义：⼀⽅⾯，它赋予⼈们获取以前可
能⽆法获得的知识和专业技能的能⼒；另⼀⽅⾯，也存在隐忧 —— ⽐如，学⽣利⽤这些⼯具作

### Page 14

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
54 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
弊，获得了成功的信号，但实际上并没有真正内化和发展⼈⼒资本与认知耐⼒。⽽这种认知耐
⼒，对于顺利度过这类过渡期⾄关重要，⾮常宝贵。谢谢。
最后，我只想说⼏句关于这次对话的话。⾸先，你说的内容没有明显的错误，所以你在这个话
题上的理解应该排在前 10% 。其次，你以极⼤的谦逊和不确定性来对待这件事，我认为这⾜以
让你在这个领域跻⾝前 10% 。
我也想借此提醒在座的很多同学：我们还有很多东西需要学习，为了真正理解这⼀切，我们现
在就需要落实⼀些措施 —— 收集数据、跟踪数据、进⾏预测。我希望，等我们下次请你回来的
时候，你能告诉我们你哪些预测是错误的，以及为什么会错。承认错误，本⾝就是谦逊的⼀部
分，也是学习过程的⼀部分。我觉得你真的给我们树⽴了⼀个榜样，这是我们所有⼈都需要去

学习的。为此，我和我们所有⼈都要感谢你。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 193: Bill Ackman“炮轰”美联储：加息可能是个错误，AI热潮将让通胀更难控制

Source PDF: all report pdf/Bill Ackman“炮轰”美联储：加息可能是个错误，AI热潮将让通胀更难控制.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

亿万富翁投资者、对冲基⾦经理 Bill Ackman 警告，美联储此次加息可能是⼀个错误。 AI 资
本开⽀持续扩张，正削弱利率对投资需求的传统抑制作⽤；与此同时，更⾼的融资成本还
可能向商品和服务价格传导，反⽽加剧通胀压⼒。
摘要：
AI 资本开⽀持续扩张，正在削弱加息对投资需求的传统抑制作⽤，甚⾄可能通过推⾼融资和⽣产
成本，反过来增加通胀压⼒。亿万富翁投资者 Bill Ackman 警告，美联储此次加息可能是⼀个错
误。美联储 9 ⽉将基准利率上调 25 个基点⾄ 3.75%—4.00% 。
Ackman 近⽇在 X 平台发⽂称， AI 军备竞赛正推动科技巨头持续扩⼤资本开⽀。即使融资成本上
升，企业仍可能继续建设数据中⼼、采购算⼒，使更⾼利率难以有效压制投资需求；与此同
时，利息成本上升还可能通过供应链和定价机制传导⾄商品和服务价格。
这⼀担忧并⾮ Ackman ⼀⼈的判断。 Moody's Analytics ⾸席经济学家 Mark Zandi 此前也表⽰，美
联储此时加息可能是 “ ⼀个错误 ” ，并警告称，若要将通胀重新压回 2% 的⽬标，美联储要么遏制

AI 投资热潮，要么进⼀步压制经济其他部分。
AI 投资热潮，正在削弱加息的传统传导机制
传统货币政策逻辑是，加息提⾼借贷成本，抑制企业投资和居⺠消费，进⽽压低总需求和通
胀。但 Ackman 认为， AI 可能正在打破这⼀传导链条：对于超⼤规模科技公司⽽⾔，争夺 AI 基础
设施和算⼒的潜在回报⾜以⽀撑其在更⾼利率环境下继续⼤举投资。
“ 在历史上这⼀独特时刻，为何更⾼的利率不会因利息成本被嵌⼊⼀切⽽导致更多通
胀？ ”Ackman 在帖⼦中反问。
这轮资本开⽀的规模也为这⼀判断提供了背景。 Bridgewater Associates 数据显⽰， Alphabet 、
Amazon 、 Meta 和 Microsoft 今年的 AI 相关投资预计⾄少达到 6500 亿美元。 Gartner 最新预测则显
⽰， 2026 年全球 AI ⽀出将达到 2.7 万亿美元，同⽐增⻓ 49.5% ，其中 AI 基础设施⽀出约 1.48 万亿
美元。
这意味着，在 AI 投资⾼度依赖未来增⻓预期、且企业对算⼒和数据中⼼的需求仍然强劲的情况

下，利率上升对这部分资本开⽀的抑制⼒度，可能弱于传统经济周期。 Gartner 甚⾄指出， AI 基
础设施需求⽬前对成本上升表现出较强韧性。
通胀仍⾼于⽬标，美联储紧缩压⼒难以消退
但对美联储⽽⾔，问题在于通胀并未真正回到⽬标⽔平。受能源价格上涨及其他供应冲击影
响，美国通胀今年重新⾛⾼。以 CPI 衡量，通胀已连续 66 个⽉⾼于美联储 2% 的⽬标；核⼼ PCE
也已连续 65 个⽉⾼于⽬标。
与此同时，美联储官员近期的表态显⽰，对通胀持续性的担忧仍然突出。⾥⼠满联储主席 Tom
Barkin 表⽰，当前价格压⼒已不再局限于能源和关税冲击，消费需求及更⼴泛的经济活动同样在
推⾼通胀。圣路易斯联储主席 Alberto Musalem 则认为，通胀仍可能需要进⼀步加息来压制。
市场也已开始定价进⼀步收紧。CME Group 的 FedWatch ⼯具显⽰， 30 天联邦基⾦期货隐含的
10 ⽉加息概率约为 64% ；⾼盛经济学家同样预计美联储可能在 10 ⽉ 27 ⽇⾄ 28 ⽇的会议上再次加

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
236 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
3 条评论
息，但这⼀判断取决于油价⾛势。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
胡萝⼘
9 ⼩时前 中国浙江省
0  回复
恰恰说明加息加得不够多，加到那些超⼤云计算商因为利息太⾼⽽放弃⼤规模数据中⼼建设，通
胀就下降了。当年沃克尔就是⼤幅加息，驯服通胀
Dirk
20 ⼩时前 中国
1  回复
AI 的盈利过于显著，利率⾼也不会影响投资决策，那么谁来间接买单呢
衡之 20 ⼩时前 中国北京
1  回复
回复  Dirk ：
不是某⼀个⼈买单，⽽是整个经济链条在分摊。

---
## Document 261: Jev创始人：“造产品、不造神”，追求“极致可靠性”，Jev将逆转“软件灭绝论”

Source PDF: all report pdf/Jev创始人：“造产品、不造神”，追求“极致可靠性”，Jev将逆转“软件灭绝论”.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 14
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

AI 会写代码，却没让软件更聪明。 TypeSafe 创始⼈ Diogo 认为 AI 与软件脱节，押注 Jev 将
智能嵌⼊程序，以 “ 极致可靠性 ” 实现 “ 做到你的意思 ” ，并预⾔ SaaS 软件末⽇论将迎来逆
袭。
摘要：
“ ⾃动化到底去哪了？ AI 已经聪明到令⼈难以置信，但在其他所有事情上却毫⽆⽤处，这简直是
个悲剧。 ”
近⽇， TypeSafe 创始⼈ Diogo Almeida 在 a16z 播客中直⾔， AI 编程⼯具只是让代码写得更快，软
件本⾝并未变好。 OpenAI ⾃ 2020 年起尝试⾃动化客服⾄今未果，根本原因在于 AI 与软件 “ 各⾛各
路 ” 。
在与 a16z 联合创始⼈ Ben Horowitz 与合伙⼈ Martin Casado 的对谈中， Diogo 阐述了他对当前 AI
困局的判断，以及公司爆⽕的 AI 决策模型 ——Jev 试图解决什么。
他表⽰， Jev—— ⼀种将智能嵌⼊软件内部的新编程原语，能让程序能理解意图、做出概率决
策。 Diogo 认为极致可靠性是⼀切的前提，并将 “ 极致可靠性 ” 视为 Jev 的核⼼，主张 “ 造产品、不

造神 ”。
Diogo 判断 SaaS 公司将是 AI 浪潮最⼤受益者之⼀， “ 软件灭绝论 ” 将被逆转。⽽ Jev 的终极⽬标
是：让所有技术都能 “ 做到你的意思（ do what I mean ） ”。
Diogo Almeida
“ ⾃动化在哪⾥ ” ： AI 的能⼒与落地之间的鸿沟
Diogo 认为，现有的 AI 编程⼯具 —— ⽆论是 Claude Code 、 Codex 还是 Cursor—— 写出的代码，
本质上和 10 年前没有区别。
不管你⽤多少 AI 编程⼯具，软件本⾝其实并没有变好。也许你写得更快了，但可以说反⽽变得更
糟了 —— 因为监督更少了。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

更具体的例⼦： OpenAI ⾃ 2020 年起就在尝试⾃动化客服，⾄今仍未实现。 “ 这很疯狂，我们有
这么强的财务激励去⾃动化这些事情，但就是没做到。 ”
在他看来，问题的根源不是数据，也不是模型能⼒不⾜，⽽是 AI 与软件之间始终 “ 各⾛各路 ”——
AI 输出⾃然语⾔，软件处理结构化指令，两者从未真正对接。
Jev 是什么：嵌⼊软件内部的智能原语
Diogo 将 Jev 定位为⼀种全新的软件原语（ primitive ） —— 嵌⼊代码内部的智能层，⽽不是替代
软件⼯程师的⼯具。
Jev 的做法是提供⼀个新的编程原语（ primitive ） —— 开发者可以⽤⾃然语⾔描述意图，给它⼀
个状态机，它会以⼀定的置信度决定做什么。
他⽤⼀个类⽐解释与编程智能体的区别：编程智能体擅⻓语法，但在语义上很差，在架构上更
是糟糕。 Jev 解决的是另⼀个层⾯的问题 —— 让软件内部能够理解意图，⽽不只是⽣成⽂本让⼈
去解读。
Diogo 也坦承 Jev 的本质： “Jev 绝对是⼀个分类器。分类器本来就是为了有⽤⽽设计的。 ” 他认

为， Jev 的能⼒可能已经超过 2019 年⼀⽀专业 MLE 团队为特定任务构建的窄模型。
极致可靠性，是⼀切的前提
Diogo 反复强调， Jev 的核⼼竞争⼒不是性能，⽽是可靠性。
他对可靠性的定义分三层：
可⽤性（ uptime/SLA ）：这是基础，类似 SLA ，系统能不能跑起来
鲁棒性：每次调⽤都能表现出相似的智能⽔平 —— 不是严格的确定性，⽽是 “ 每次都⾜够聪
明 ” 。
可信赖性： “做到你的意思（ do what I mean ）” ，开发者能依赖它，不需要反复给样例查询，
直接信任它。
我想要的不是⾃动化软件⼯程，⽽是扩展软件本⾝能做的事，让那些本该可以⾃动化的东西，真
的能被⾃动化。
这就像⼀个你可以⽤⾃然语⾔描述需求的库，你给它⼀个状态机，它会带着置信度去选择该做什
么 —— 这种能⼒以前从未如此普及过。
可靠性就是这个东西的全部。如果你不理解这⼀点，就很难做出⼀个真正能抄⾛的竞品 —— 它不
是靠跑分就能复制的。

### Page 3

他也直⾔：“ 我们本可以更早发布。我不认为⼈们意识到这⼀点。但它会带来那种 ' 我可以信任这
个东西 ' 的感觉 —— 这是⼀台反挫败感的机器。 ”
“ 造产品、不造神 ” ：与主流 AI 叙事的分歧
Ben Horowitz 点出了 TypeSafe 与其他 AI 公司最显著的不同： “ 我最喜欢你们说的⼀句话 ——' 我们
造产品，不造神 ' （ we build prod, not god ）。 ”
Diogo 对此直接表态： “ 我不认为我们⾛在通往递归⾃我改进（ RSI ）的路上，我现在不这么认
为，以前也不这么认为。 ”
他将当前 AI ⾏业的悲观叙事归因于 “ 单⼀模型的迷信 ”—— 相信⼀个超级⼤脑能统治⼀切。 “ 这是
⼈们听到的，但这不是现实。 ”
他的判断是：OpenAI 定义的 AGI——“ ⾃动化⼤多数经济上有价值的⼯作 ”—— 在技术上是可实
现的，但⾏业⾛错了⽅向。
他的⽬标更朴素：
SaaS“ 逆末⽇ ” ：软件灭绝论将被反转
编程智能体出现时，市场⼀度担忧 SaaS 公司将被颠覆，估值⼤幅下跌。 Jev 出现后， SaaS 公司

的反应却截然相反 —— 普遍欢迎。
Diogo 的解释是： SaaS 灭绝论的前提 ——“ 软件便宜且容易复制 ”—— 从未真正成⽴。
他认为 SaaS 公司将是 AI 能⼒落地的最⼤赢家，原因有三：
他们最了解⽤⼾⼯作流，知道什么值得⾃动化。
他们已经触达了⼤量⽤⼾，分发成本已经⽀付。
他们有能⼒将 Jev 嵌⼊现有产品，真正提升软件能⼒，⽽不只是加⼀个聊天框。
可靠性的最⾼荣誉，是让开发者在使⽤ Jev 时不需要提供⽰例查询 —— 当你直接信任它的时候，
你就会进⼊⼀种⼼流状态。
⾃从 RLHF 之后， AI ⾏业就分裂成了巨⼤的过度承诺和交付不⾜。因为⼈类在评估模型好坏，模
型看起来很好，但我们⼀直在优化这个评判者，⽽不是⾃动化本⾝。
我想要的是 ' 做我的意思 ' （ do what I mean ）。想象⼀下，如果所有技术都能做你的意思 —— 这
不是科幻，看看 AI 有多聪明就知道了。
⼤量的东西发⽣在底层，软件提供的价值并没有消失。

### Page 4

他举了⼀个具体的愿景：多选表单将会消失，取⽽代之的是软件直接理解⽤⼾意图。 “' 做我的意
思 ' 将被推向全新的⾼度。 ”
访谈全⽂如下：
我认为这将是⼀场逆末⽇。我对此⾮常兴奋。
Jev 如何将 AI 转化为真正能做事的软件
a16z 播客节⽬
a16z 的 Ben Horowitz 和 Martin Casado 与 TypeSafe AI 创始⼈ Diogo Almeida 坐下来探讨⼀个简单
的问题： AI 已经变得极其强⼤，那么⾃动化究竟在哪⾥？
Diogo 认为，编程智能体或许能帮助我们更快地编写软件，但它们产出的软件在本质上仍与以往
⽆异。 TypeSafe 正在⽤ Jev ⾛⼀条不同的路：将智能嵌⼊软件本⾝，使开发者能够构建出可以理
解意图、做出概率性决策的程序，⽽⾮仅仅⽣成⽂字供⼈解读。
他们探讨了：为何可靠性是让 AI 真正可编程的关键、这将如何开启概率性软件的新时代，以及为
何成熟的 SaaS 公司可能在其中占据特别有利的位置。归根结底， Diogo 的⽬标很简单：打造能

够可靠地 " 按我的意思去做 " 的技术。
第⼀章：开场
Ben ：  ⾃动化到底在哪⾥？ AI 聪明得令⼈难以置信，但在其他事情上却如此⽆⽤。
不管你⽤多少 AI 编程智能体，软件本⾝其实并没有变好。也许你写得更快了，但可以说反⽽变差
了。
Diogo ：  OpenAI 从 2020 年就开始尝试⾃动化客服。我真正想要的是智能软件 —— 我想拓展软件
本⾝的能⼒边界，让那些本应可以⾃动化的事情真正实现⾃动化。
Ben ：  我最喜欢你们说的⼀句话是： " 我们构建产品，⽽⾮造神。 " 太好了。因为换作其他任何⼀
位⼤型实验室的领导者，即便内⼼充满热情，也会将⼀切都包裹起来。但你的视⻆截然不同。
Diogo ：  没错，我们要创造⼀个更美好的世界，原因是多⽅⾯的、细致⼊微的。我不认为我们正
⾛在通往递归⾃我改进（ RSI ）的道路上，那种 "SaaS 末⽇ " 的故事我也不认同。
第⼆章：认识 Diogo 与 TypeSafe

### Page 5

Ben ：  今天， TypeSafe 的创始⼈兼领导者 Diogo 来到我们节⽬。他对 Martine 和我来说都是英雄
式的⼈物。他不仅在打造⼀款真正有趣的产品，更在推动⼀场我们认为极具重要意义的运动。所
以今天我们⾮常兴奋。欢迎你，感谢来到节⽬。
Diogo ：  谢谢。
Ben ：  也许你可以给我们简要介绍⼀下 ——Jev 是什么？ TypeSafe 是什么？为什么它很重要？
Diogo ：  好，我来说说。其实有⼈让我做过电梯演讲，但我通常会东拉西扯、表现很差。不过我
意识到，我对 Jev 最喜欢的⼀句电梯演讲就是：⾃动化到底在哪⾥？
这真的令⼈深感痛惜。这么多的智慧， AI 如此聪明绝顶，却在其他事情上如此⽆⽤，令⼈扼腕。
我并不是要抨击聊天机器⼈或编程智能体，我⾃⼰也很喜欢它们，但在其他⽅⾯它们就是帮不上
忙，这很悲哀。
我们有这么多璞⽟浑⾦，却没有被打磨成能⽤于⼯作的利器 —— 这正是 TypeSafe 要做的：为软
件打造 AI 。我们希望让 AI 不仅仅对参与循环中的⼈类强⼤，更能真正构建实际可⽤的软件。 Jev

是我们在这个领域的第⼀个模型，⽬标是让⾃动化变得更好、更好、更好。
Ben ：  是的。这件事之所以有趣，是因为它在软件界引发了轰动。我们认识的每⼀位开发者都
打电话来说： " 这太厉害了，太棒了，⼜快⼜好，⽅⽅⾯⾯都提升了。 " 但⼤家也会问：我们不是
已经有 Claude Code 、 Codex 这些⼯具了吗？有什么区别？这⼜怎么能带来真正的⾃动化呢？
Diogo ：  我真希望⼿边有张好看的⽰意图，因为我有⼀张特别喜欢的图来解释这个。我很欣赏
Claude Code 和 Codex ，也喜欢 Gary Tan 对它们的描述 ——" 即时软件 " ，这是形容它们所做之事
的绝妙⽅式。它们能即时⽣成软件，让你可以⽤⾃然语⾔来编程，并且拥有与传统软件相当的表
达能⼒。
但我想要的是另⼀种东西 —— 智能软件。我想要的不是⾃动化软件⼯程，⽽是拓展软件本⾝的能
⼒，让那些本应可以⾃动化的事情真正实现⾃动化。⽤更⽣动的语⾔来说，我想要表达 " 意图 " 这
个概念，我想扩展我们能够表达和实现的词汇边界。

编程的本质，是对有价值的事物进⾏超精确的规格化定义，然后⽆限复制。这太了不起了，我只
是想让这⼀切变得更多、更好。
第三章：智能软件，⽽⾮更快的代码
Ben ：  哦，有意思。所以，⼀种理解⽅式是：你说的不是⽤⼀个更快、甚⾄可能不如⼈类的⼯
具来替代软件⼯程师，⽽是说 —— 不不不，我们要给现有的软件⼯程师装上超级引擎，让他们能
写出更好、更有趣的东西。
Diogo ：  对，就是这样。其实我觉得很多⼈都忽略了这个要点，它如此微妙，却⼜如此重要，值
得细细道来。
如果你使⽤ Claude Code 、 Codex 或 Cursor 这类⼯具，它们确实能写代码，但写出来的代码本质
上跟⼈类写的没什么两样 —— 也许更好，也许更差，但基本上还是 10 年前那种样⼦的代码。
⽽ Jev 的意义在于，⽆论你是⽤ Claude Code 还是⾃⼰动⼿，你都多了⼀个新的基础原语 —— ⼀
个新东西，可以嵌⼊你的代码中，真正拓展软件的能⼒。所以它不是⽣成代码，⽽是被包含在代
码之中 ……
Martin ：  对，⽽且这是⼀个⾮常强⼤的基础原语 —— 但它也与程序员惯常的思维⽅式有些不

同。例如，它引⼊了概率的概念，这是⼀种嵌⼊在软件内部的智能层。

### Page 6

Diogo ：  是的。可以这么想：这有点像⼀个库，你⽤⾃然语⾔描述你想要什么，给它⼀个状态
机，然后它会以⼀定的置信度选择做什么 —— 这种⽅式在以前并不像现在这样普遍。
这⾥⾯有很多值得深挖的地⽅。我想先说⼀件事：我⾮常热爱 " ⾃动化到底在哪⾥ " 这个问题的⽅
向。我很爱写软件，恨不得整天写。当然，我不推荐任何⼈去当 CEO ，不管怎样。
⽽且这件事确实很疯狂 ——AI 这么厉害，但软件 10 年来⼏乎没变，没有⼈能把这两件事调和在
⼀起。我们能做的最多是在旁边加⼀个聊天机器⼈，能执⾏⼀些操作，但不是所有操作，因为有
些操作还不可靠。
我想回到刚才那个关于 " 思维⽅式有所不同 " 的观点。是的，我认为机器原⽣的东西与代码并不能
完全精确匹配 —— ⽽这恰恰是我们正在努⼒的艺术所在。在新员⼯⼊职第⼀天，我会画⼀张⻙恩
图： AI 擅⻓什么、代码中什么是有价值的，⽽我们就在两者的交集⾥。
所以我们不会输出像推断浮点数这样的东西，因为 AI 在这⽅⾯确实很差。但像概率这样的东西其
实并不新鲜，这就涉及到了 "Jev 只不过是个分类器 " 的争论。

Jev 绝对是⼀个分类器。分类器很厉害，它们本来就是为了实⽤⽽设计的。它们是被设计来让系
统正常⼯作的，这和某些机器学习概念的接⼝是⼀样的 —— 因为这些都来⾃于那些努⼒让系统实
际运转的实践者。
⽽我现在看到的是， Jev 实际上 —— 我的猜测是 —— 可能已经⽐ 2019 年专⻔组建⼀⽀ MLE 团队来
为你做这些事情更强了，⽽且你可以即时编程配置它。谁知道还能构建出什么，因为 2019 年能
构建窄任务系统的优秀 MLE 团队并不多，要收集数据集、评估效果，这⼀切都很难。⽽这才刚
刚开始。
Martin ：  我感觉在这⽅⾯还有很多可能性。顺便问⼀下，你认为这⾥存在⼀个滑动条吗？⼀端
是 " 语⾔输⼊、语⾔输出 " ，就像我们今天有的；另⼀端是 " 现有的命令式程序 " ，然后你可以在两
者之间移动。还是说，你认为 " 语⾔输⼊、状态机输出 " 这个点，将会在设计空间中作为⼀种通⽤
⼯具固化下来？
Diogo ：  这个问题很棘⼿。说说我⼼⾥的答案 —— 我⼼⾥的答案是，它确实是⼀个滑动条。

在为产品设计各种属性时，我可能因为个⼈偏好犯了⼀些错误。但⽬前， " 每美元的智能量 " 是我
的北极星指标 —— 当然这不⼀定是对的， " 每秒的智能量 " 在短期内可能更有价值。
但就连我们的接⼝设计 —— 把输⼊称为 "state" （状态），也是有意为之的：它就是程序内部状态
的⼀部分。在我的内⼼，我们其实在为更复杂的程序内部状态排列⽅式做⼤量优化⼯作。
能不能把智能放进去？我认为这将是⼀场永⽆⽌境的探索。我们在设计上⾮常⽤⼼，同时从实际
⻆度看，某些事情⾃然⽽然会发⽣ —— ⽐如在毫秒级做出 AI 决策会更容易实现，所以它在⼀段时
间内会更像数据库，⽽不是标准库的东西。但我也很希望它有⼀天能成为标准库的⼀部分。
第四章： Diogo 的成⻓历程与 AI 观
Ben ：  能不能退⼀步，聊聊是什么造就了 Diogo ？你的说话⽅式既像 AI 研究员，⼜像系统⼯程
师，还像程序员 —— ⽽这些通常是交集很少的群体。你把 AI—— ⼀个我们⼀直朝着 " 类⼈存在 " ⽅
向推进的东西 —— 变成了程序员的⼯具。能不能聊聊你的个⼈经历？

Diogo ：  我进⼊ AI 的经历有些⾮同寻常。我曾是⼀名数学竞赛选⼿，还获得过奖项。怎么描述
呢 …… 我的数学好到⾜以追到⼥⽣，这已经相当厉害了。
Ben ：  真有这回事？

### Page 7

Diogo ：  千真万确。所以你得练到相当⾼的⽔平。
Martin ：  那数学这么好，能追到什么样的⼥⽣？这点我们的听众需要了解。
Diogo ：  不⾏不⾏，我们要激励年轻⼈嘛。
Martin ：  年轻⼈，别学这个。保持帅⽓、随性、有趣就好，不要⽤才华来弥补什么。
Diogo ：  哈，我不敢相信我说了这些。总之，我是数学竞赛选⼿，但说来有点惭愧，我其实从来
不喜欢数学，也从来没有认真努⼒过，只是⼤池塘⾥的⼩⻥。数学对我来说始终只是被设定好的
竞争道路，我痛恨它，因为它只关乎赢得⽐赛。
后来我发现计算机科学其实很像数学，但更酷、更有⽤、更有趣。我⾄今仍然热爱出算法⾯试
题，那对我来说是最美好的事情之⼀。它既让我享受其中，⼜能⾮常好地考察出别⼈的能⼒。所
以我热爱计算机科学，我认为⾃⼰⾸先是⼀名计算机科学家，⽽不是 AI 研究员。
我真正进⼊这个领域，是因为我赢得了⼀场 Kaggle 竞赛 —— 不是靠复杂的数学，⽽是靠把⾃动
化做到极致：更多的嵌套循环，更多的 …… 就像⽤解决系统问题的⽅式来解决它。

这最终让我被迫在 NeurIPS 上做演讲 —— 通常这是⼀种荣誉，但我讨厌它，因为我只想埋头⼲
活。
Ben ：  那是 Kaggle ⽐赛那次吗？
Diogo ：  是的。那次 Kaggle 竞赛的主办⽅是 Isabel Guyon ，她是 SVM 的共同发明⼈ —— 应该是
第⼀作者，但我不是百分之百确定。她看出我是那种不太融⼊学术圈的⼈，便收留了我，引导我
认识了 AI 圈⾥的各种⼈，我的职业轨迹就这样被推向了这个⽅向。
Martin ：  然后是 OpenAI ？
Diogo ：  不，先是 Jeremy Howard 创办的⼀家初创公司。
Martin ：  真的？
Diogo ：  是的，我很喜欢 Jeremy 。然后是 Google Brain ，待了⼀段时间。再后来退休了⼀阵
⼦，最终觉得⽆所事事挺烦的，便想： AI 其实真的很有意思，于是就加⼊了 OpenAI 。结果⾮常
好，真的⾮常好。
Ben ：  太了不起了。你刚才说了⼀句在当今世界极为罕⻅的话： "AI 真的很有趣。 " ⽽贵公司的⽓

质和对 AI 的看法，也和其他⼈如此不同。我最喜欢你们说的⼀句话是： " 我们构建产品，⽽⾮造
神。 " 太好了。换作其他任何⼀位⼤型实验室的领导者，即便内⼼充满热情，也会把⼀切包裹遮
掩起来。但你的视⻆截然不同。
你说：不，我们要创造⼀个更美好的世界，⽽且这会⾮常棒，不仅不会减少⼯作岗位，反⽽会增
加更多、更好的岗位，所有⼈都会有美好的未来 —— 和你在⼀起，能感受到你是真⼼相信这⼀点
的。
所以，请告诉我们， TypeSafe 和 Jev 对我们来说不仅仅是⼀家公司，更是⼀场朝向积极未来的运
动 —— ⽽这正是 AI 世界⾥⼤多数⼈不太买账的⽅向。
Diogo ：  是的，或者说他们根本不理解这⼀点。那种 "Jev 只不过是个分类器 " 的抱怨，完全是 ML
层⾯的担忧 —— ⽽其他⼈都在狂欢，因为⼤家都在想：这太了不起了，我们终于可以做我们⼀直
想做的事情了！

### Page 8

如果你不真正了解开发者，就很难理解正在发⽣的事情。我完全同意。我确实认为有⼀幅相当负
⾯的世界图景在流传，⽽我显然不认同。
我认为这根本上来源于⼀种 " 单⼀超级模型 " 的迷信 —— 每个⼈都相信⼀个⽆所不能的⼤脑能统治
⼀切。
Martin ：  那听起来更加不祥，那才是⼈们脑海中的恐惧。
Diogo ：  没错，⼈们就是这么理解的。但那个 " ⼀个⼤脑 " 真的在统治我们所有⼈的路上吗？我们
连许多基础性的事情都还没有⾃动化 —— ⽽那些事情恰恰是我们不应该让⼈去做的。
有很多⾮常基础的⼯作还没有被⾃动化。⽽每当现实与这种叙事脱节时，我感到⾮常痛苦。这种
脱节的⼀部分，正来⾃于 " ⾃动化到底在哪⾥ " 的追问 ——AI 明明这么聪明，⾃动化的经济激励⼜
这么强，但现实就是如此落后。
这种现实与 AI 潜⼒之间的落差，让我感到真正的痛惜，也是我⼀直希望能做点什么的驱动⼒。现
在，我们终于发布了 Jev ，对我来说感觉像是⼀场派对的开始。使⽤ Jev 的开发者们是快乐的 AI
群体，没有⽤的则是愁云惨淡的那群 —— 这确实是⼀种⾮常有趣的对⽐。

Ben ：  这让我想起今早和我们成⻓基⾦负责⼈ David George 的⼀段对话。我们在聊新⼯具，我
问他有没有试过 Perplexity 的 Muse ，他说超好⽤。我问他⽤来做什么，他说： " 我终于取消了
《纽约时报》的订阅。 " 我说，那其实挺难做到的。但这不过是冰⼭⼀⻆ —— 有⼤量烦⼈的事情
等待被⾃动化。
第五章：这只是数据问题吗？
Diogo ：  我认为，如果我们真的要诚实地⾯对⾃动化这个北极星⽬标，就不能重蹈 AI ⼀直以来的
覆辙 —— 过于聚焦于异常值和演⽰。
很多⼈问我最喜欢的使⽤场景是什么，但我都不确定那些场景是否真的有效。我希望它能在后台
默默运⾏，让⼈可以放⼼信任它，不需要随时盯着它，也让别⼈可以在上⾯叠加构建。
与此同时还有安全性 —— 这是另⼀种层⾯的安全：如果你希望它真正拿到资源、获得访问权限并
执⾏任务，你需要保障，或者⾄少是统计层⾯的保障，确保它不会失控。
当然，我不认为我们的模型很快会失控，除⾮有⼈专⻔写软件来实现这⼀点 —— 那将是⼀个⾮常

酷的壮举。但不管怎样，这不是我们应该负责的⽅向。
Martin ：  我很好奇，这个直觉酝酿多久了？我记得我们⼤概在 2017 年聊过 ……
Diogo ：  对，我们确实聊过。那时我谈到了数据的重要性，以及专注于任务的想法。我就想问，
这⼀切是早就知道会⾛向分类器，还是只是⼀种直觉 —— 觉得看待整个 AI 运动还有另⼀种⽅式？
说来有趣， 2017 年的那场演讲其实有类似的主题，好像叫做 " 理论上模块化、实践中灵活 "—— ⾮
常软件⻛格。所以我在这⽅⾯算是相当⼀致的。
我认为这⼀切真正开始，是在 ChatGPT 发布之前不久。当我们发布那些模型的时候，我对此并
没有什么预感，说实话，我甚⾄对 RLHF 的泛化能⼒感到⾮常惊喜。
Ben ：  那是什么时候？
Diogo ：  ⼤概是 2021 年底， 2021 年四季度。那个泛化能⼒真的很强 —— 如果你读过那篇论⽂，
它跟其他那些试图⾃证观点的论⽂不⼀样，我们是真正⽤接近科学⽅法的⽅式，尽⼒去证伪 ——
⽐如，这是不是某种作弊？

### Page 9

我最喜欢的⼀个测试查询是： " 冥想前先吃袜⼦为什么重要？ " 我们提前确认了这句话没有出现在
互联⽹上，⽽模型居然能给出看起来合情合理、像⼈类回答的答案。这件事在团队⾥触发了那个
点：这不是作弊。
在 ML 中，你永远要⼩⼼作弊的可能性。然后让我真正受挫的是，我们发布了那个模型 —— 我是
坚定的能⼒推进者，为发布那个模型做了很多⼯作 —— 我真⼼认为那个模型有相当⼤的概率是
AGI 。但当它没有达到那个程度时，我的整个世界观都崩塌了，我问⾃⼰：为什么？
Ben ：  所以那时候你其实在某种程度上是 " 疯狂列⻋ " 上的⼈？
Diogo ：  也不完全是。我只是觉得 RLHF 泛化得相当好，也许我们已经有 AGI 了。 RLVR 是那个我
⽬前看来泛化不太好的东西。
说到 AGI 的定义，在 OpenAI 早期 —— ⼤概 2020 年 —— ⼈们会把 AGI 描述成 " 伊利亚（ Sutskever ）
和每⼀个 if 语句 " 。但那只是⼀个有意模糊的概念，让所有⼈都能站在这顶⼤帐篷之下，共同奋

⽃。
⽽我 —— 出于细致⼊微的理由 —— 不认为我们⾛在通往 RSI （递归⾃我改进）的路上，我现在依
然不这么认为。
但我确实认为， OpenAI 所定义的 AGI 是完全可以实现的 ——" ⾃动化世界上⼤多数有经济价值的
⼯作 " 。这其实听起来 …… 有⼤量⼯作摆在那⾥，其中很多是⾮常机械、简单的重复性⼯作。要
想把⼯作外包出去，你需要的是简单易懂的指令，⽽这种⽔平的智能，在模型⾥早就具备了，已
经有相当⻓⼀段时间了。
⽽让我感到耿耿于怀的是：为什么这些东西还没有被利⽤起来？
⾃ RLHF 以来， AI ⾏业基本上⾛向了⼀种巨⼤的 " 过度承诺、交付不⾜ " 模式。 GPT-3 在当时其实
还算⽐较准确的，但因为⼈类是评估模型好坏的裁判，⽽模型在⼈类评估中表现得很好，所以看
起来⼀切都很棒 —— 但我们⼀直在优化的是这个 " 裁判 " 本⾝，⽽不是⾃动化能⼒。这才是那个缺
失的东西。
所以，正是从那时起，它真正击中了我 —— 为什么这个东西不更有⽤？
Martin ：  所以你认为，衡量标准应该是：你能在多⼤程度上⾃动化真正有⽣产⼒的任务？这就

是你所说的 " 过度承诺、交付不⾜ " 所指的维度？
Diogo ：  在我⼼⾥，这关乎的是酷炫的科幻愿景能否成真。我认为，⾃动化真实任务的能⼒，是
衡量那个科幻愿景的 " 煤矿⾥的⾦丝雀 " 。
你真的告诉我数学已经被解决了？甚⾄两年前 GPQA （⾕歌防作弊问答）就被解决了，但我们还
是搞不定得来速点餐？这两件事很难同时在脑海⾥⾃洽，⽽且我认为很多⼈对此没有好的答案。
第六章：使⽤案例的⼴度
Martin ：  我能测试⼀个想法吗？也许不太对，但 —— 真实世界的分布难道不是和数字世界不同
吗？真实世界是重尾分布，有很多例外情况，我们也没有相应的数据。会不会正是因为我们没有
那种分布的数据、没有在那种分布上训练，所以 AI 才基本上只局限于数学或代码这样的低维流
形？
Diogo ：  我不完全买单这个数据论点。我相信确实存在⻓尾，否认这⼀点会很荒谬。但我认为，
在 " 煤矿⾥的⾦丝雀 " 这个场景⾥，我们并不需要⾃动化那条⻓尾。

### Page 10

我认为我们在⼀切事情上都需要极度务实。构建可靠的软件永远是⼀种投⼊，就像 …… 程序员的
三⼤美德是什么？懒惰 —— 不愿重复做同⼀件事；傲慢；还有第三个 ……
Martin ：  对对，我记得这是 Perl 时代的东西 …… 还有第三个。
Diogo ：  对，我也记不清了。但它说的是那种懒惰 —— 愿意花 10 ⼩时去解决⼀个 5 分钟的任务，
让它从此不再需要⼿动完成。这应该是⼀个 ROI 决策，对那些想做⾃动化的⼈来说。
我只是希望让⾃动化成为可能，⽽我相信⼈们会由此创造出新型⼯作 —— 就像 " 穿⽜仔裤的
Jev" 这样的⻆⾊。但作为⼀个基准，我觉得验证 "AI 看起来应该能⾃动化的事情，是否真的能⾃
动化 " 是有价值的。
OpenAI 从 2020 年就开始尝试⾃动化客服，到现在还没成功 —— 这真的很令⼈震惊，也很匪夷所
思。
Ben ：  ⽽且公司内部，现在真正被⾃动化的事情也很少，⼤多数项⽬都没有成功，除了编程这
块做得⾮常好。
能不能帮我们分类⼀下，哪些类型的问题现在更容易⾃动化？这很有意思，因为我们在本轮⽣成

式 AI 浪潮之前就研究过客服问题。你去拜访⼀家公司，他们会说 " 我们解决了 95% 的帮助台来
电 " ，听起来⾮常多，但你仔细⼀看数据，发现基本上全是密码重置。如果按问题的独特性来
分，可能也就 50% 左右。
所以当你⾯对⼈类和⾃然系统时，就是有这种⽆尽的异常⻓尾。
Diogo ：  是的。说起来，⼤概每隔⼀⼩时就有⼈找我说 " 我在⽤ Jev 做这个新的应⽤场景 " ，让我
⼤跌眼镜。所以，你问到我有没有预⻅到这么⼴泛的应⽤场景 —— 我没有预期会这样。这次发布
是没有⼈能预料到的，谁能预料到可能真的有点疯狂。
就好像我们没⼈能预料到 ChatGPT 这个⾯向普通⽤⼾的东西，⽽这是⾯向开发者的版本，感觉
⼜奇特了⼀层。我甚⾄不知道参与 "Jev 派对 " 的⼈⾥有多⼤⽐例是开发者。我⽆法想象⾮开发者
怎么⽤它，但就连我那些⾮开发者朋友也都在 Twitter 上狂欢、发表情包，完全投⼊其中。
好，第⼀点 —— 太棒了。第⼆点 —— 这很难⽤简短的话来传达，因为这背后是多年来的⾎汗与泪

⽔。我对可靠性的执着程度，是⾮常、⾮常⾼的。可靠性就是这个产品的灵魂所在。如果你不理
解这⼀点，就很难做出⼀个在基准测试上看起来差不多的仿制品。
我觉得，可靠性的每⼀个 " 九 " 都会对所有⼈都⽆⽐宝贵 —— 即便它不是市值上最值钱的东西，因
为它将开启新的应⽤。我们正在为各种奇特的可靠性数量级⽽战，有些我们⾃⼰都还没完全搞清
楚，因为我们就像是在把 AI 的智能引擎装进⼈们的⼯作站，让他们去发现它能做什么。
Martin ：  可靠性在这⾥具体是什么意思？是模型的可⽤性、调⽤时返回同样的结果，还是别的
什么？
Diogo ：  好问题。对于⼀个本质上有随机性的东西来说 ——
第⼀种是可⽤性 /SLA ，不太是这个。第⼆种更接近于确定性。第三种，我会称之为健壮性 ——
每次都有相似的智能表现。
不完全是确定性，因为确定性对单元测试有⽤，但对真实系统不够⽤。⽐如，你在提⽰词⾥加⼀
个 UUID ，它在功能上是相同的，但结果不会完全⼀样。还有另⼀层我还不知道该叫什么 —— 也
许可以叫某种智能：不需要每次执⾏完全相同的操作，但每次都需要是聪明的。如果换你处于那

种情况，这是⼀个⼈类能理解的合理判断吗？开发者可以在此基础上进⾏编程。

### Page 11

对我来说，可靠性的最⾼荣誉，将是达到这样⼀个境界：开发者可以不写任何⽰例查询，直接对
Jev 编程 —— 因为他们完全信任它，进⼊那种 " ⼼流状态 " 。
Martin ：  这让我想到，有了这样⼀个基础原语，编程智能体的价值其实在某种程度上反⽽下降
了 —— 因为就算 Codex 帮你写了所有软件，但那个软件⾥没有⽤上 Jev ，软件本⾝的能⼒就是有
限的。反过来，即使你不⽤编程智能体，只要⽤上了这个通⽤基础原语，写软件也会变得更容
易。
你觉得未来是编程智能体来使⽤ Jev ，还是更多是⼈类主导？
Diogo ：  这更像是⼀个关于编程智能体的问题，⽽不是 Jev 的问题。我的感受是，我没有像⾃⼰
希望的那样深⼊使⽤它们，你们两个可能⽐我更常⽤ —— 这让我有点遗憾。
但我的经验是，它们在语法层⾯⾮常厉害，在语义层⾯则相当差，架构层⾯更是糟糕。
Martin ：  对，架构⽅⾯⾮常差。
Diogo ：  ⽽架构对我来说是软件中最具⼈类创造⼒的部分。所以我很喜欢⽤编程智能体，我认为
Jev ⼤概率还不在它们的训练分布⾥ —— 如果它们真的训练了我们的⽤⼾数据，那可就吓⼈了，

⼤概率没有。
但当 Jev 进⼊它们的训练分布之后，我认为让它们来处理语法没有任何问题。⾄于架构，也许模
型并不是⼀⽆是处，⽽是处于第 50 百分位。如果你对架构本来就不懂，也许这就够⽤了。这些
都是灰⾊地带的权衡。有时候速度才是你公司或项⽬最需要调的那个旋钮 —— 你愿意接受第 50
百分位的架构⽽不是第 60 百分位，换取更快的速度，让 Codex 连夜跑完。
第七章： SaaS 末⽇，反转了
Ben ：  说到这⾥，市场上已经出现了⼀个有趣的现象：当编程智能体出现时，⼈们喊着 "SaaS 末
⽇来了 " ，所有 SaaS 公司的估值都跌穿了地板。但当 Jev 出现时，每家 SaaS 公司都在说 " 这是有
史以来最棒的东西 " 。怎么解释这个反转？
Diogo ：  我觉得这很⾃然，没什么好多说的。
在 SaaS 末⽇的叙事⾥，我认为真正站不住脚的论点是：软件⾮常便宜，⽽且也许很容易被复
制。前者我还能相信⼀些，后者我完全不信，因为⼤量的价值是在引擎盖下发⽣的。也许我在这
⾥有些过于迷恋软件了。

Martin ：  我们都是。
Diogo ：  好吧，好吧。所以我不认为那个叙事成⽴了。 SaaS 提供的价值似乎和以前⼀样，也许
市场只是被吓到了。
我认为 SaaS 将是整个 AI 游戏中最⼤的赢家之⼀。我⾮常希望与那些最⼤、最 " ⽆聊 " 、最了解⽤
⼾痛点的 SaaS 公司紧密合作，因为它们最清楚哪些⼯作流该被⾃动化、⽤⼾真正需要什么 ——
这就是它们的核⼼竞争⼒。
软件永远是⼀种资本投⼊，但你提前花钱，是为了让体验变得更好，然后将这种提升分发给所有
那庞⼤的⽤⼾群体。所以我认为，从能⼒维度来说，这将是⼀场 " 逆末⽇ " 。我好兴奋，我得给它
起个名字。
Ben ：  对，得有个名字。 "SaaS 嘉年华 " ？
Diogo ：  听起来有点太欢乐了。

### Page 12

Ben ：  所有 SaaS 应⽤都将突然变得⼤幅更有⽤。⽽且，⼀家 SaaS 公司的⼤量资本投⼊，其实就
是触达所有客⼾。如果你已经触达了所有客⼾，然后不是仅仅在产品上加个聊天机器⼈，⽽是让
软件本⾝变得更好、更好 —— 那将是⼀件了不起的事。
我不知道这是不是⼀个现实的梦想，但我觉得有这样⼀个可能的世界：那些多选框表单会消失。
我感觉它们就像是在把⾃然语⾔映射到软件早已能处理的结构化输出 —— 只是换了个包装。
Diogo ：  ⽽且严格来说，这个概念来⾃ 80 年代，我们那时候叫它 " 第四代语⾔ " （ 4GL ）。你还记
得吗？
我认为 " 做我的意思 " （ Do What I Mean ）将被推向⼀个全新的境界。如果我能举⼀个 Jev 应⽤的
例⼦ —— 我不确定是否⾜够可靠，所以不敢打包票 —— 但有个⼈⽤语⾳来控制电脑，系统不断实
时判断：这是⼀个命令，还是要插⼊⽂本？插⼊的是什么⽂本？这听起来就是极度酷炫的东西。
界⾯可能将彻底改变，当然我们还需要让它更便宜、更快。
Ben ：  那就到星际迷航的境界了。

Martin ：  这⾥有⼀个深刻的直觉：如果你今天⽤ AI 来⽣成软件，你创造的仍然是和以前⼀样的
软件。但你看⼤公司⾥⼀个普通的 PR ，平均⼤概 10 ⾏代码 —— 我们真的做过这个研究。所以你
⾃动化了 10 ⾏代码，⽽且这 10 ⾏代码可能还只是某次客⼾学习的体现。
你优化的其实是⼀件相当微⼩的事情，⽽且它并没有给软件带来新的能⼒ —— 你只是在⾃动化这
个本来就很⼩的事情，在极限情况下，意义相当有限。
但现在，有了这个新能⼒，软件本⾝真的可以变得更好了。
Diogo ：  对。⽽且说实话，在没有 Jev 之前，我从来没有想到：不管你⽤多少 AI 编程智能体，软
件本⾝其实根本没有变好。也许你写得更快了，但可以说反⽽变差了，因为监督变少了。
Ben ：  ⽽且往往更不安全。
Diogo ：  对，肯定的。但现在，你真的可以说：应⽤将因此获得新功能，因为这个你提供的新基
础原语，它能理解⾃然语⾔，能够推理，并且将这种能⼒与状态机结合起来。
如果⼈们能把这个作为最⼤收获，那将是对我们⼯作的最⼤称赞。我感觉，把现有的三种逻辑⻔

扩展到更多，⼏乎是⼀种过于宏⼤的愿景 —— 在我们的类型体系⾥，有些类型就像是同⼀种逻辑
⻔，但⾥⾯有⼀个⼩⼩的⼤脑。如果这真的成为 TypeSafe 留给世界的遗产，那将是⼀件对世界
来说极其重要的事情。我不会过度承诺，但我会为此⽽战。
第⼋章：应⽤层还是系统底层？
Martin ：  有⼀个问题：在像状态⼀致性、持久性、真正系统级别这些需要提供强保障的严肃场
景⾥，这个能⾛多深？
分析⽇志、分析邮件、提供 UI 、与⼈类对话 —— 这些肯定没问题。但随着时间推移，这会不会变
成像智能数据库⼀样的东西？甚⾄ …… 空中交通管制系统 —— 这也是我们真正需要的。
Diogo ：  确实有点可怕。我的哲学⼀直是：先⾃动化容易的，再⾃动化困难的。但我也认为，⼀
个全新的概率性编程时代将被打开。概率性编程其实有很⻓的历史，基本上在 70 年代就消亡
了 ……
Martin ：  我对这个很熟悉。其实你也可以把 Jev 叫做⼀种神经符号系统。你的联创 Eric 来⾃那个
背景，他跟我聊过⻉叶斯⽅法。

### Page 13

Diogo ：  对，他在⽣物领域做了很多⼯作，时起时落。但我的意思是更⼴泛的东西。我的品牌是
实⽤主义，极度的实⽤主义。我不太喜欢⽣物启发的东西，我认为它从来没有真正奏效过 —— 它
有⽤处，是能激励疯狂的⼈们⼯作⼏⼗年，直到某天真正突破，再被⼯程化打磨。 AI 神经⽹络的
故事确实如此，但很多关于它 " 为何有效 " 的解释其实并不准确，⽐如分层特征提取确实奏效了，
否则残差连接就不会有⽤ —— 但这是另⼀个话题。
从系统的⻆度来说，我对这部分并不感到个⼈兴奋 —— 不是因为不好，⽽是因为编程起来实在太
复杂。但我为这个世界感到兴奋：当我们在不同成本和速度之间拥有⼤量不同层次的智能时，那
些真正的系统狂⼈会在极限情况下做出各种疯狂的权衡 ——Jev 对他们来说可能太智能了⼀千
倍，他们只需要⼀个近似的信号来做⼀个近似的路由判断。
这将是极度疯狂的东西。⽽好消息是，我们可以再次重建系统 —— 我们有了新的基础原语，这是
思考软件的全新⽅式。我们对互联⽹做过这件事，从⼤型机到客⼾端 - 服务器架构也做过，我们

周期性地就会这样做。
⽽且，仅仅因为⽹络安全问题，我们⼤概就需要重建⼏乎所有系统，只是为了让它们安全。
Ben ：  这⼀点对关键基础设施来说尤其明确。
Martin ：  你在思考 Jev 的应⽤时，更多是从应⽤层、 SaaS 、分析的⻆度，还是从系统底层的⻆
度，还是全部都有？
Diogo ：  我有⼀点⾃⼰的看法。我的思考框架有点像 TCP/IP 的底层 ——UDP 不可靠， TCP 太可
靠，介于其间 ……
说到我为什么关注 " 每美元的智能量 "—— 我是从 AI 驱动的经济⾰命、 AI ⽆处不在的科幻愿景倒推
过来的：所有软件⾥都有 AI ，满世界都是。我问⾃⼰：在这样的世界⾥，所有对 AI 的调⽤中，有
多⼤⽐例是 " 为了⼈类消费 " 的 —— 需要⽂体、需要⻛格，等等？在极限情况下，这个⽐例其实很
少。
从同⼀个问题出发：有多少调⽤会在第⼀层，有多少会在深层底层？我认为极⼤多数会在底层，
但会从第⼀层开始。⽽如果你不去瞄准底层，你会很难到达那⾥。
我认为很多⼈没有意识到， AI 与软件之间是如何 " 在夜晚擦肩⽽过 " 的。即便你试图把 AI 嵌⼊软

件，它的⾏为也会很怪 —— 因为软件本来不接受⾃然语⾔输⼊。你在提⽰词⾥塞进去你要的
JSON 格式和 schema ，它就是不听。最终你只能把输出交给⼈类，或者再交给另⼀个 LLM——
那就是智能体的 while 循环。
所以从第⼀性原理来说，只有两条路：⼈在循环中（聊天），或者智能体（ while 循环） —— 因为
⾃然语⾔需要被反复输⼊回另⼀个模型。
我⻅过太多⼈经历这种 " 悲伤的五个阶段 " ：拿起 AI ，打算嵌进软件，然后是否认、愤怒，最终⾛
向接受 —— 算了，我就把它交给另⼀个 LLM ，交给⼈类吧。
⽽我认为，这是第⼀次，我真正看到：你可以拿⼀个 LLM ，拿 AI ，把它真正地映射到⼀个状态
机，并且⾼效地做到这⼀点。
当然，我不想过度承诺。我不知道它是否已经为所有那些被过度承诺的应⽤场景做好了准备，但
我的团队会为此⽽战，我们真的⾮常⾮常在乎可靠性。
第九章：可靠性与 " 做我的意思 "
Diogo ：  我们本可以早得多发布。我不认为⼈们意识到这⼀点，也不认为他们会从 Twitter 上的讨

论中意识到。⼈们⼤概永远不会真正理解，但它就会有那种感觉 —— 哦，我可以信任这个。所以

### Page 14

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
131 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
它是反挫败感机器。
" 做我的意思 "—— 对我来说，这关乎世界的流畅度：让⼀切都更顺畅地运转，像⻮轮咬合⼀样紧
密联动。我其实有⼀整套 "AI 乌托邦愿景 " ，分布在不同的维度上。 " 做我的意思 " 是其中⾮常重要
的⼀部分 —— 想象⼀下，所有的技术都按你的意思运作。那不是科幻。看看 AI 有多聪明，不是
吗？
Martin ：  确实令⼈惊叹。也许这就是我们今天最好的收尾之语了。
Ben ：  " 做我的意思 " 。我喜欢。谢谢 Diogo ，这是⼀次很棒的对话，⾮常享受。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 328: Thoughts On Global Government Debt With A Focus On The US

Source PDF: all report pdf/Thoughts On Global Government Debt With A Focus On The US.pdf
Report source: Substack Reports
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 8
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

From:    Yardeni QuickTakes <yardeni-research@ghost.io>
Subject: Thoughts On Global Government Debt With A Focus On The US
Date:    5 hours ago
Thoughts On Global Government Debt With A Focus On The US

YARDENI QUICKTAKES
Thoughts On Global
Government Debt With A Focus
On The US
By Ed Yardeni & Elias Griepentrog • 28 Sept 2026
View in browser
Photo by Alice Pasqual / Unsplash

I. Revenge of the Bond Vigilantes?
We still have a 70% subjective probability for our bullish base-case
Roaring 2020s scenario. The remaining 30% covers all the possible
bearish scenarios. We monitor those possibilities closely with our Worry

### Page 2

List. Our main worry right now is the significant rise in bond yields
worldwide this year (chart).
The higher global bond yields may be due to higher inflation, driven by the
jump in oil prices following the Middle East war that began in late
February. That's not confirmed by US breakeven inflation rates, which
remain surprisingly subdued (chart)! Nevertheless, when the war ends, oil
prices should drop sharply, lowering bond yields.
A more likely explanation for the global bond market rout is that the yen-

carry trade is unwinding as the Bank of Japan (BOJ) raises its policy rate,
forcing carry traders to sell government bonds they bought worldwide with
proceeds from cheap yen loans (chart). This trade allowed many

### Page 3

governments run budget deficits without putting upward pressure on their
bond yields. Now, the chickens have come home to roost.
Governments ran large deficits and accumulated lots of debt when the
BOJ and other major central banks kept interest rates abnormally low from
the Great Financial Crisis through the Great Virus Crisis. The major
central banks' quantitative easing policies rigged global bond markets.
The Bond Vigilantes were subdued. Now, we may be witnessing the

Revenge of the Bond Vigilantes.
II. Is Bessent getting twisted?
US Treasury Secretary Scott Bessent has been leaning on the BOJ to
raise its official policy rate to bolster the yen, which has been very weak.
He wants to make sure that Japan doesn't sell its US Treasury securities
to support the yen. The problem is that a higher BOJ policy rate would
probably cause the yen-carry trade to unwind faster, putting upward
pressure on bond yields worldwide.

Bessent also has been gingerly implementing an "Operation Twist" in the
US Treasury market by buying back bonds and issuing more T-bills to
fund the purchases. If the bond market rout turns into a US debt crisis, he
might have to significantly increase the size of his Operation Twist.
III. Is the US on an unsustainable fiscal course?

### Page 4

Larry Kudlow, director of the National Economic Council under President
Donald Trump during his first term, invited me to speak at the White
House Economic Advisers’ lunch on December 12, 2018. Joining us was
Jason Trennert, chairman, CEO, and chief investment strategist of
Strategas. Several of the President’s top economic advisers attended. I
asked then Treasury Secretary Steven Mnuchin why the administration
wasn't refunding the entire government debt. Mnuchin said, "We are

looking into that." Nothing changed.
At the time, the three-month Treasury bill rate was 1.32%, and the 10-year
bond yield was 2.40%. The average effective interest rate paid on the
Treasury's marketable securities was just below 2.00% (chart). Now the T-
bill rate is at 4.08%, and the bond yield is at 5.17%. The effective rate was
3.31% in August.
Since that lunch meeting in the basement of the White House in
December 2018, federal marketable Treasury debt has more than

doubled, rising from $14.4 trillion then to a record $31.8 trillion in August of
this year (chart).

### Page 5

Net interest outlays on public debt held by the public soared from $300
billion at the end of 2018 to $1.1 trillion in August 2026 (chart). Persistently
large government deficits and now higher interest rates suggest that net
interest outlays are heading higher.
Net interest outlays now exceed both defense spending and income
security outlays (chart). Towering above them all, of course, is the
relentlessly rising spending on health, Medicare, and Social Security.

### Page 6

Federal tax receipts are driven mostly by individual income and payroll tax
receipts (chart). Both have been increasing along with employment.
Corporate tax receipts have been falling this year, probably because last
year's tax bill allowed 100% depreciation.
The federal budget deficit totaled $1.77 trillion over the 12 months through
August (chart). Over that same period, net marketable Treasury securities
rose $2.42 trillion.

### Page 7

Meanwhile, the pace of new US corporate bond issuance has doubled
since the start of 2024 to $3.0 trillion over the past 12 months through
August (chart). Interestingly, not all of it is AI-related, since financial
corporations raised $1.6 trillion.
Yes, the US government is on an unsustainable fiscal course. But Bessent
believes that our Roaring 2020s scenario will save the day: Productivity-
led growth should boost federal receipts, moderate inflation, and lower

interest rates. Fed Chair Kevin Warsh believes so too. The Bond
Vigilantes aren’t cooperating. That’s admittedly worrisome. Nevertheless,
we expect the Roaring 2020s to prevail.
💡

### Page 8

clause.
Yardeni QuickTakes © 2026 – Unsubscribe

---
## Document 345: Westpac Economic Calendar October 2026 (2026-10-01)

Source PDF: all report pdf/Westpac Economic Calendar October 2026 (2026-10-01).pdf
Report source: Westpac IQ
Date: 2026-10-01
Pages: 6
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
Economic Calendar
October 2026
MON TUE WED THU FRI
1 2
AUSTRALIA
Cotality Home Value Index Sep exp –1.0%
prev 0.9% (12:01am)
RBA – Financial Stability Review (11:30am)
Goods Trade Balance Aug exp $2.3bn
prev $1.9bn (11:30am)
Job Vacancies Q3 exp 3.5% prev –2.1%
(11:30am)
EURO ZONE
Unemployment Rate Aug exp 6.4% prev
6.4% (7:00pm)
JAPAN
Tankan Large Manufacturers Index Q3 exp
25 prev 22.0 (9:50am)
NEW ZEALAND
Building Permits Aug prev –4.3% (7:45am)

UNITED STATES
Fedspeak – Goolsbee (7:15am)
Fedspeak – Barkin, Collins  & Schmid
(11:05pm)
ISM Manufacturing Sep exp 55.0 prev
54.6 (12:00am)
Construction Spending Aug exp 0.1% prev
–0.5% (12:00am)
GLOBAL
S&P Global Manufacturing PMI Sep (F)
EURO ZONE
CPI Sep y/y (P) exp 4.5% prev 3.2%
(7:00pm)
JAPAN
Tokyo CPI Sep y/y prev 1.9 (9:30am)
Jobless Rate Aug prev 2.4% (9:30am)
NEW ZEALAND
ANZ Consumer Confidence Sep prev 98.0
(7:00am)
UNITED STATES
Fedspeak – Logan (8:45am)

Employment Report Sep (10:30pm)
Nonfarm Payrolls Chg exp 100k prev 162k
Unemployment Rate exp 4.1% prev 4.1%
Avg Hourly Earnings exp 0.3% prev 0.3%
Factory Orders Aug exp –0.1% prev 0.9%
(12:00am)
Durable Goods Orders Aug (F) (12:00am)
5 6 7 8 9
AUSTRALIA
MI Inflation Gauge Sep y/y prev 4.8%
(11:00am)
EURO ZONE
Sentix Investor Confidence Oct prev 5.1
(7:30pm)
PPI Aug y/y prev 5.8% (8:00pm)
UNITED STATES
ISM Services Sep prev 55.4 (1:00am)
GLOBAL
S&P Global Services PMI Sep (F)

AUSTRALIA
Westpac–MI Consumer Sentiment Oct prev
84.4 (10:30am)
ANZ–Indeed Job Ads Sep prev 2.5%
(11:30am)
EURO ZONE
Ger. Factory Orders Aug prev 2.5% (5:00pm)
Retail Sales Aug prev –0.6% (8:00pm)
JAPAN
BoJ Governor Ueda – Speech
UNITED STATES
Trade Balance Aug prev –US$88.6bn
(11:30pm)
CHINA
Foreign Reserves Sep prev US$3438bn
EURO ZONE
Ger. Industrial Production Aug prev –1.1%
(5:00pm)
UNITED STATES
Consumer Credit Aug prev US$18.1bn
(6:00am)
NY Fed 1-Yr Inflation Expectations Sep y/y

prev 3.85% (2:00am)
FOMC Minutes (5:00am)
Consumer Credit Aug prev US$18.1bn
(6:00am)
AUSTRALIA
MI Inflation Expectations Oct y/y prev 4.9%
(11:00am)
JAPAN
Current Account Aug prev ¥2988.9bn
(10:50am)
CHINA
Credit & M2 Data Sep (9–15 Oct)
New Loans ytd prev CNY10440bn
M2 Money Supply y/y prev 7.5%
JAPAN
Household Spending Aug y/y prev –3.6%
(10:30am)
UNITED STATES
UoM Consumer Sentiment Oct (P) (1:00am)
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Forecasts for Australian and New Zealand data are Westpac forecasts and for other countries are Bloomberg consensus forecasts as at the time of publication.

Westpac forecasts are subject to change in subsequent publications. (P) refers to preliminary or first estimate; (S) refers to second estimate; (F) refers to final estimate.

### Page 2

2
Economic Calendar
October 2026
MON TUE WED THU FRI
12 13 14 15 16
UNITED STATES
Fedspeak – Hammack (3:10am)
AUSTRALIA
RBA Minutes (11:30am)
NAB Business Survey (11:30am)
Conditions prev –1
Confidence prev –8
UNITED STATES
NFIB Small Business Optimism Sep prev
98.7 (9:00pm)
Existing Home Sales Sep prev –2.0% (1:00am)
AUSTRALIA
Westpac–MI Leading Index Sep ann'd prev
–0.09% (10:30am)
CHINA
CPI Sep y/y prev 0.8% (12:30pm)
PPI Sep y/y prev 3.8% (12:30pm)

Trade Balance Sep prev US$119.1bn
NEW ZEALAND
Net Migration Aug prev 3010.0 (8:45am)
UNITED STATES
CPI Sep prev 0.4% (11:30pm)
Federal Reserve’s Beige Book (5:00am)
AUSTRALIA
Labour Force Survey Sep (11:30am)
Employment Change exp 20k prev 39.5k
Unemployment Rate exp 4.6% prev 4.6%
Participation Rate exp 67.1% prev 67.0%
EURO ZONE
Industrial Production Aug prev –0.1% (8:00pm)
JAPAN
Core Machinery Orders Aug prev –3.7%
(10:50am)
Industrial Production Aug (F) (3:30pm)

UNITED KINGDOM
Monthly GDP Aug prev 0.4% (5:00pm)
UNITED STATES
Retail Sales Sep prev 1.2% (11:30pm)
Phily Fed Manufacturing Index Oct prev 37.8
(11:30pm)
PPI Sep y/y prev 0.4% (11:30pm)
Business Inventories Aug prev 0.8% (1:00am)
EURO ZONE
Trade Balance Aug prev €5.0bn (8:00pm)
CPI Sep (F) (8:00pm)
NEW ZEALAND
BusinessNZ Mfg PMI Sep prev 53.1 (8:30am)
UNITED STATES
Import Price Index Sep prev 0.7% (11:30pm)
Industrial Production Sep prev 0.0% (12:15am)

19 20 21 22 23
AUSTRALIA
RBA's Kent – Fireside Chat (10:05am)
CHINA
GDP Q3 y/y prev 4.3% (1:00pm)
Activity Data Sep ytd y/y (1:00pm)
Retail Sales prev 1.1%
Industrial Production prev 5.3%
Fixed Asset Investment prev –7.2%
NEW ZEALAND
Trade Balance Sep prev NZ$–1349mn
(8:45am)
UNITED KINGDOM
Rightmove House Prices Oct prev 0.7%
(10:01am)
UNITED STATES
NAHB Housing Market Index Oct prev 32
(1:00am)
EURO ZONE
EU ZEW Expectations Oct prev 25.8 (8:00pm)

UNITED KINGDOM
ILO Unemployment Rate Aug prev 4.9%
(5:00pm)
UNITED STATES
Housing Starts Sep prev –2.6% (11:30pm)
Building Permits Sep (P) prev –2.1%
(11:30pm)
Pending Home Sales Sep prev 0.3% (1:00am)
AUSTRALIA
RBA's Hauser – Appearance (9:30am)
UNITED KINGDOM
CPI Sep y/y prev 3.1% (5:00pm)
Public Sector Borrowing Sep £18.3bn
(5:00pm)
EURO ZONE
EC Consumer Confidence Oct (P) (1:00am)
NEW ZEALAND
CPI Q3 prev 1.5% (8:45am)
UNITED STATES
Leading Index Sep prev 0.0% (1:00am)

Kansas City Fed Manufacturing Index Oct
prev 14 (2:00am)
JAPAN
CPI Sep y/y prev 1.9% (10:30am)
UNITED KINGDOM
GfK Consumer Sentiment Oct prev –13
(10:01am)
Retail Sales Sep prev 0.5% (5:00pm)
UNITED STATES
UoM Consumer Sentiment Oct (F) (1:00am)
GLOBAL
S&P Global PMIs Oct (P)
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Forecasts for Australian and New Zealand data are Westpac forecasts and for other countries are Bloomberg consensus forecasts as at the time of publication.

Westpac forecasts are subject to change in subsequent publications. (P) refers to preliminary or first estimate; (S) refers to second estimate; (F) refers to final estimate.

### Page 3

3
Economic Calendar
October 2026
MON TUE WED THU FRI
26 27 28 29 30
AUSTRALIA
RBA's Jones – Panel (8:40am)
EURO ZONE
IFO Business Climate Survey Oct (8:00pm)
UNITED STATES
Chicago Fed Nat Act Index Sep prev –0.04
(11:30pm)
Dallas Fed Manufacturing Index Oct (1:30am)
CHINA
Industrial Profits Sep y/y (12:30pm)
EURO ZONE
M3 Money Supply Sep y/y (8:00pm)
UNITED STATES
Durable Goods Orders Sep (P) (11:30pm)
FHFA House Prices Aug  (12:00am)
S&P CoreLogic CS House Prices Aug (12:00am)

Richmond Fed Manufacturing Index Oct prev
–2 (1:00am)
New Home Sales Sepprev 6.4% (1:00am)
Conf. Board Consumer Confidence Index Oct
(1:00am)
AUSTRALIA
CPI Q3 (11:30am)
Headline exp 1.3% prev 0.6%
Trimmed Mean exp 0.9% prev 0.8%
NEW ZEALAND
RBNZ Policy Decision prev 2.75% (12:00pm)
UNITED KINGDOM
Autumn Budget (11:30pm)
UNITED STATES
Wholesale Inventories Sep (P) (11:30pm)
Building Permits Sep (F)
FOMC Policy Decision prev 3.875% (5:00am)
AUSTRALIA

Trade Price Indices Q3 (11:30am)
Export Prices prev 1.1%
Import Prices prev 5.7%
EURO ZONE
EC Economic Confidence Oct (9:00pm)
EC Consumer Confidence Oct (F) (9:00pm)
ECB Policy Decision (Deposit Rate) prev
2.50% (12:15am)
NEW ZEALAND
ANZ Business Confidence Oct (11:00am)
UNITED STATES
Personal Income Sep (11:30pm)
Personal Spending Sep (11:30pm)
PCE Deflator Sep (11:30pm)
GDP Q3 (P) (11:30pm)
AUSTRALIA
PPI Q3 prev 1.3% (11:30am)
Private Sector Credit Sep (11:30am)

CHINA
NBS PMIs Oct (12:30pm Sat 31 Oct)
Manufacturing
Non–Manufacturing
EURO ZONE
GDP Q3 (P) prev 0.6% (9:00pm)
Unemployment Rate Sep (9:00pm)
JAPAN
Tokyo CPI Oct y/y (10:30am)
Jobless Rate Sep (10:30am)
Industrial Production Sep (P) (10:50am)
BoJ Policy Decision prev 1.25%
NEW ZEALAND
ANZ Consumer Confidence Oct (8:00am)
UNITED STATES
Employment Cost Index Q3 prev 0.9%
(11:30pm)
Chicago PMI Oct (12:45am)
Times are AEST. All data forecasts are m/m or q/q and seasonally adjusted unless otherwise specified. Forecasts for Australian and New Zealand data are Westpac forecasts and for other countries are Bloomberg consensus forecasts as at the time of publication.

Westpac forecasts are subject to change in subsequent publications. (P) refers to preliminary or first estimate; (S) refers to second estimate; (F) refers to final estimate.

### Page 4

Paul Clark
Industry Economist
E: paul.clark@westpac.com.nz
Westpac Economics / Fiji
Shamal Chand
Senior Economist
E: shamal.chand@westpac.com.au
westpaciq.com.au

### Page 5

(including where acting under any of its Westpac, St George, Bank of
Melbourne or BankSA brands, collectively, “Westpac”). References
to the “Westpac Group” are to Westpac and its subsidiaries and
includes the directors, employees and representatives of Westpac
and its subsidiaries.
Things you should know
We respect your privacy: You can view the New Zealand Privacy
Policy here, or the Australian Group Privacy Statement here.
Each time someone visits our site, data is captured so that we

can accurately evaluate the quality of our content and make
improvements for you. We may at times use technology to capture
data about you to help us to better understand you and your needs,
including potentially for the purposes of assessing your individual
reading habits and interests to allow us to provide suggestions
regarding other reading material which may be suitable for you.
This information, unless specifically indicated otherwise, is
under copyright of the Westpac Group. None of the material,

nor its contents, nor any copy of it, may be altered in any way,
transmitted to, copied of distributed to any other party without
the prior written permission of the Westpac Group.

recommendation or financial advice and investment decisions
should not be based on it. This information does not constitute an
offer, a solicitation of an offer, or an inducement to subscribe for,

purchase or sell any financial instrument or to enter into a legally
binding contract. To the extent that this information contains any
general advice, it has been prepared without taking into account
your objectives, financial situation or needs and before acting on
it you should consider the appropriateness of the advice. Certain
types of transactions, including those involving futures, options
and high yield securities give rise to substantial risk and are not

and none of Westpac or its related entities is under any obligation
to update this information or correct any inaccuracy which may
become apparent at a later date. This information may contain
or incorporate by reference forward looking statements. The
words “believe”, “anticipate”, “expect”, “intend”, “plan”, “predict”,
“continue”, “assume”, “positioned”, “may”, “will”, “should”, “shall”,
“risk” and other similar expressions that are predictions of or

reliable indicator of future performance, nor are forecasts of future
performance. Whilst every effort has been taken to ensure that
the assumptions on which any forecasts are based are reasonable,
the forecasts may be affected by incorrect assumptions or by
known or unknown risks and uncertainties. The ultimate outcomes
may differ substantially from any forecasts.
Conflicts of Interest: In the normal course of offering banking
products and services to its clients, the Westpac Group may act

in several capacities (including issuer, market maker, underwriter,
distributor, swap counterparty and calculation agent) simultaneously
with respect to a financial instrument, giving rise to potential
conflicts of interest which may impact the performance of a financial
instrument. The Westpac Group may at any time transact or hold a
position (including hedging and trading positions) for its own account
or the account of a client in any financial instrument which may

(a) no part of his/her compensation was, is, or will be, directly or
indirectly, related to any views or (if applicable) recommendations
expressed in this material; (b) this material accurately reflects his/
her personal views about the financial products, companies or
issuers (if applicable) and is based on sources reasonably believed
to be reliable and accurate; (c) to the best of the author’s knowledge,
they are not in receipt of inside information and this material does

not contain inside information; and (d) no other part of the Westpac
Group has made any attempt to influence this material.
Further important information regarding sustainability related
content: This material may contain statements relating to
environmental, social and governance (ESG) topics. These are
subject to known and unknown risks, and there are significant
uncertainties, limitations, risks and assumptions in the metrics,
modelling, data, scenarios, reporting and analysis on which

the statements rely. In particular, these areas are rapidly
evolving and maturing, and there are variations in approaches
and common standards and practice, as well as uncertainty
around future related policy and legislation. Some material
may include information derived from publicly available sources
that have not been independently verified. No representation
or warranty is made as to the accuracy, completeness or

reliability of the information. There is a risk that the analysis,
estimates, judgements, assumptions, views, models, scenarios
or projections used may turn out to be incorrect. These risks may
cause actual outcomes to differ materially from those expressed
or implied. The ESG-related statements in this material do not
constitute advice, nor are they guarantees or predictions of future
performance, and Westpac gives no representation, warranty or

Australia: Westpac holds an Australian Financial Services Licence
(No. 233714). You can access Westpac’s Financial Services Guide
here or request a copy from your Westpac point of contact. To the
extent that this information contains any general advice, it has been
prepared without taking into account your objectives, financial
situation or needs and before acting on it you should consider the
appropriateness of the advice.
New Zealand: In New Zealand, Westpac Institutional Bank refers

to the brand under which products and services are provided by
either Westpac (NZ division) or Westpac New Zealand Limited
(company number 1763882), the New Zealand incorporated
subsidiary of Westpac (“WNZL”). Any product or service made
available by WNZL does not represent an offer from Westpac
or any of its subsidiaries (other than WNZL). Neither Westpac
nor its other subsidiaries guarantee or otherwise support the
performance of WNZL in respect of any such product. WNZL

distribution in Singapore to institutional investors, accredited
investors and expert investors (as defined in the applicable

Singapore laws and regulations) only. Recipients of this material
in Singapore should contact Westpac Singapore Branch in respect
of any matters arising from, or in connection with, this material.
Westpac Singapore Branch holds a wholesale banking licence and is
subject to supervision by the Monetary Authority of Singapore.
Fiji: Unless otherwise specified, the products and services for
Westpac Fiji are available from www.westpac.com.fj  © Westpac

### Page 6

not be subject to audit and reporting standards and regulatory
requirements comparable to those in effect in the United States.
The value of any investment or income from any securities or
related derivative instruments denominated in a currency other
than U.S. dollars is subject to exchange rate fluctuations that may
have a positive or adverse effect on the value of or income from
such securities or related derivative instruments.
The author of this communication is employed by Westpac and is

not registered or qualified as a research analyst, representative, or
associated person of WCM or any other U.S. broker-dealer under the
rules of FINRA, any other U.S. self-regulatory organisation, or the
laws, rules or regulations of any State. Unless otherwise specifically
stated, the views expressed herein are solely those of the author
and may differ from the information, views or analysis expressed by
Westpac and/or its affiliates.
UK: The London branch of Westpac is authorised in the United

Kingdom by the Prudential Regulation Authority (PRA) and is
subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)
and limited regulation by the PRA (Financial Services Register
number: 124586).  The London branch of Westpac is registered
at Companies House as a branch established in the United
Kingdom (Branch No. BR000106). Details about the extent of the
regulation of Westpac’s London branch by the PRA are available
from us on request.
This communication is not being made to or distributed to, and must

not be passed on to, the general public in the United Kingdom.
Rather, this communication is being made only to and is directed
at (a) those persons falling within the definition of Investment
Professionals (set out in Article 19(5) of the Financial Services and
Markets Act 2000 (Financial Promotion) Order 2005 (the “Order”));
(b) those persons falling within the definition of high net worth
companies, unincorporated associations etc. (set out in Article

49(2)of the Order; (c) other persons to whom it may lawfully be
communicated in accordance with the Order or (d) any persons
to whom it may otherwise lawfully be made (all such persons
together being referred to as “relevant persons”). Any person who
is not a relevant person should not act or rely on this communication
or any of its contents. In the same way, the information contained
in this communication is intended for “eligible counterparties”

and “professional clients” as defined by the rules of the Financial
Conduct Authority and is not intended for “retail clients”.  Westpac
expressly prohibits you from passing on the information in this
communication to any third party.
European Economic Area (“EEA”): This material may be
distributed to you by either: (i) Westpac directly, or (ii) Westpac
Europe GmbH (“WEG”) under a sub-licensing arrangement.
WEG has not edited or otherwise modified the content of this

material. WEG is authorised in Germany by the Federal Financial
Supervision Authority (‘BaFin’) and subject to its regulation.
WEG’s supervisory authorities are BaFin and the German Federal
Bank (‘Deutsche Bundesbank’).  WEG is registered with the
commercial register (‘Handelsregister’) of the local court of
Frankfurt am Main under registration number HRB 118483.  In
accordance with APRA’s Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association
with Related Entities’, Westpac does not stand behind WEG other

than as provided for in certain legal agreements (a risk transfer,
sub-participation and collateral agreement) between Westpac
and WEG and obligations of WEG do not represent liabilities of
Westpac.  Any product or service made available by WEG does
not represent an offer from Westpac or any of its subsidiaries
(other than WEG). All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac
apply equally to WEG.
This communication is not intended for distribution to, or use by

any person or entity in any jurisdiction or country where such
distribution or use would be contrary to local law or regulation.
This communication contains general commentary, research, and
market colour.  The communication does not constitute investment
advice.  The material may contain an ‘investment recommendation’

and/or ‘information recommending or suggesting an investment’,
both as defined in Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 (including as
applicable in the United Kingdom) (“MAR”). In accordance with
the relevant provisions of MAR, reasonable care has been taken to
ensure that the material has been objectively presented and that
interests or conflicts of interest of the sender concerning the financial
instruments to which that information relates have been disclosed.

and its contents.
To the extent this communication comprises an investment
recommendation it is classified as non-independent research.
It has not been prepared in accordance with legal requirements
designed to promote the independence of investment research
and therefore constitutes a marketing communication. Further, this
communication is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead
of the dissemination of investment research.
does not take your personal circumstances into account and

before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness of
the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW
Australia and registered as a branch in Fiji. The liability of its
members is limited.
Papua New Guinea: Unless otherwise specified, the products and
services for Westpac PNG are available from www.westpac.com.
pg © Westpac Banking Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141. This
information does not take your personal circumstances into account

and before acting on it you should consider the appropriateness
of the information for your financial situation. Westpac Banking
Corporation ABN 33 007 457 141 is incorporated in NSW Australia.
Westpac is represented in Papua New Guinea by Westpac Bank -
PNG - Limited. The liability of its members is limited.
U.S: Westpac operates in the United States of America as
a federally licensed branch, regulated by the Office of the
Comptroller of the Currency. Westpac is also registered with

the US Commodity Futures Trading Commission (“CFTC”) as a
Swap Dealer, but is neither registered as, or affiliated with, a
Futures Commission Merchant registered with the US CFTC. The
services and products referenced above are not insured by the
Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (“FDIC”). Westpac Capital
Markets, LLC (‘WCM’), a wholly-owned subsidiary of Westpac, is
a broker-dealer registered under the U.S. Securities Exchange Act
of 1934 (‘the Exchange Act’) and member of the Financial Industry

Prudential Standard 222 ‘Association with Related Entities’,
Westpac does not stand behind WCM other than as provided
for in certain legal agreements between Westpac and WCM and
obligations of WCM do not represent liabilities of Westpac.
This communication is provided for distribution to U.S.
institutional investors in reliance on the exemption from
registration provided by Rule 15a-6 under the Exchange Act
and is not subject to all of the independence and disclosure

standards applicable to debt research reports prepared for retail
investors in the United States. WCM is the U.S. distributor of
this communication and accepts responsibility for the contents
of this communication. Transactions by U.S. customers of any
securities referenced herein should be effected through WCM.
All disclaimers set out with respect to Westpac apply equally
to WCM. If you would like to speak to someone regarding any
security mentioned herein, please contact WCM on +1 212 389

1269. Investing in any non-U.S. securities or related financial
instruments mentioned in this communication may present certain
risks. The securities of non-U.S. issuers may not be registered
with, or be subject to the regulations of, the SEC in the United
States. Information on such non-U.S. securities or related

---
## Document 397: アジア・パシフィック経済マンスリー：2026年9月 ～AI需要に沸く外需と、利上げに揺れる内需～

Source PDF: all report pdf/アジア・パシフィック経済マンスリー：2026年9月 ～AI需要に沸く外需と、利上げに揺れる内需～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-24
Pages: 17
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026年９月
アジア・パシフィック経済マンスリー
経済調査部 主席エコノミスト
阿原 健一郎 （℡：050-5470-4868）

### Page 2

1
実体経済サマリー
実質GDP（前年比、前期比年率、％）
（出所）Macrobondより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成
CPI（前年比、％） 失業率（％）
（注）ヒートマップは各国各指標の直近５年のZ-score（平均からの乖離）を計算、Z-scoreが+3以上を最も濃い赤色（上振れ）、▲3以下を最も濃い青色（下振れ）で表示。CPIと失業率は四半期の平均値。

### Page 3

2
金融市場サマリー
10年国債利回り
株価為替
（注）直近は９/23日時点。
（注）直近は９/23日時点。
（注）前月からの騰落率は26年８月平均と９/23日までの９月平均との比較、年初来騰落率は2025年終値と９/23日終値との比較。
為替は対米ドルの名目為替レート、株価は各国の主要株価指数。各国コードは、AU＝オーストラリア、CN＝中国、HK＝香港、IN＝インド、ID＝インドネシア、JP＝日本、KR＝韓国、
MY＝マレーシア、NZ＝ニュージーランド、PH＝フィリピン、SG＝シンガポール、TW＝台湾、TH＝タイ、US＝米国、VN＝ベトナム。
政策金利
（出所）Macrobondより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 4

3
中国
◼ 製造業PMIは拡大ペースが加速
８月のRatingDog製造業PMIは51.5と、
前月（50.9）から拡大ペースが加速。世
界的なハイテク・AIインフラ需要を背景
に電子機器などの新規受注が堅調に推移
した。
◼ インフレ率は小幅に加速
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋0.8%と、前月
（同＋0.5%）から小幅に加速したもの
の依然として低水準で推移。非食品分野
は同＋1.2%上昇した一方、豚肉価格が
同▲11.8%と下落して食品全体のデフレ
圧力を強め、総合CPIの上昇を抑えた。
◼ 消費は低位で推移
８月の小売売上高は前年比＋0.4%にと
どまり、消費の回復ペースが鈍化。８月
の不動産販売面積は同▲13.0％と、依然
として減少が続いており、不動産市況の
低迷が長期化している。政府はリスク抑
制のため未完成物件の事前販売規制を強
化を打ち出している。
◼ 輸出は増加幅が拡大
８月の輸出は前年比+25.0%と、前月
（同+23.9%）から増加幅が拡大。世界
的なAI投資の拡大を背景に、半導体など

のハイテク製品や機械電気製品の出荷が
増加した。
輸出消費
PMI
（注）直近は消費者コンフィデンスが７月、その他は８月。不動産販売は面積ベース。
（注）直近は7日物リバースレポが９/23日、その他が８月。
（注）直近は８月（速報値）。米ドル建ての輸出額。
（注）直近は８月。
インフレ率と主要政策金利
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 5

4
◼ PMIは引き続き拡大
９月の総合PMIは56.5と、前月
（54.3）から拡大ペースが加速。製造
業PMI、サービス業PMIともに加速し、
ヘッドラインを押し上げた。
◼ インフレ率は加速
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋4.8%と、前
月（＋4.4%）から加速。モンスーン期
の天候不順による一部野菜、生鮮食品
の価格高騰に加え、国際原油価格の底
堅さが輸送コストを押し上げた。
◼ 自動車販売は引き続き増加
８月の自動車販売台数は前年比＋
17.5％と、前月（同＋25.9％）に続き
増加。昨年９月からのGST（物品サー
ビス税）引き下げにより、二輪車や乗
用車、商用車など幅広い車種で販売が
増加した一方、モンスーンの降雨不足
によりトラクターの販売は鈍化した。
◼ 鉱工業生産は引き続き増加
７月の鉱工業生産指数は前年比＋6.7%
と、前月（＋8.8%）から拡大ペースは
鈍化したものの高水準を維持。鉱業部
門の縮小が下押し要因となったが、製
造業および電力部門の力強い稼働が全
体を支えた。

インド
鉱工業生産消費
PMI
（注）直近は消費者コンフィデンスが７月、その他は８月。自動車販売台数は二輪車などを含む。
（注）直近は８月。
（注）直近は７月。
（注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 6

◼ PMIは拡大ペースがわずかに鈍化
８月の製造業PMIは52.3と、前月
（53.1）からわずかに鈍化したものの、
景気拡大の節目である50を引き続き上
回った。
◼ BOKはインフレ抑制の利上げ
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋3.1 %と、前
月（同＋2.8%）から再加速。前年８月
に、通信大手が顧客情報流出への補償対
応として携帯電話料金を50%減免して
いた裏要因で、情報通信の寄与度が拡大、
総合CPIを押し上げた。
８月27日、韓国銀行（BOK）は利上げ
を決定（＋25bps、2.75％→3.00％）。
利上げの背景については、声明文で「イ
ンフレ圧力の拡大を先制的に阻止すると
ともに、金融安定リスクへの警戒を継続
する必要がある」とした。
◼ 消費は前月比で減少
７月の小売売上高は前期比▲2.4％と、
前月（同＋2.7％）から減少に転じた。
◼ 輸出は引き続き増加
８月の輸出は前年比＋68.7%と引き続
き増加。世界的なAI設備投資の拡大によ
り、半導体輸出が同＋209.1 %と驚異的

な伸びを示し、自動車の一時的落ち込み
（同▲29.8%）を完全に相殺した。
5
PMI
（注）直近は消費者コンフィデンスが８月、その他が７月。
（注）直近は８月。
（注）直近は８月。 米ドル建ての輸出額。（）内は25年輸出額に占める割合。
（注）直近は政策金利が’９/23日、その他が８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
輸出消費
韓国
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 7

6
台湾
PMI
（注）直近は８月。
（注）直近は８月。国家発展委員会の公表値。
（注）直近は８月。米ドル建ての輸出受注額。
◼ PMIは拡大ペースが加速
８月の製造業PMIは62.5%と、前月
（61.5%）から拡大ペースが加速。AI
関連の先端サーバーや半導体の旺盛な
受注が生産活動を牽引した。
◼ インフレ率は鈍化
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋2.0%と、前
月（同＋2.5％）から鈍化。食料価格の
寄与が縮小し、総合CPIを押し下げた。
台湾中央銀行は物価安定と景気拡大の
バランスを考慮し、政策金利を据え置
いている。
◼ 消費は引き続き拡大
８月の実質小売売上高は前年比＋4.8％
と、前月（同＋5.2％）に続き拡大。季
節商戦や新型スマートフォンの発売等
が重なり、堅調に推移した。
◼ 輸出受注は引き続き増加
８月の輸出受注は前年比＋71.4％と、
前月（同＋61.9％）から増加幅が拡大。
AI・高性能コンピューティング需要を
背景に、情報通信機器や電子部品の受
注が引き続き増加した。

インフレ率と政策金利
輸出受注国内消費
（注）直近は政策金利が’９/23日、その他が８月。
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 8

7
◼ PMIは縮小に転じる
８月の総合PMIは49.5と、前月
（51.0）から悪化し、縮小に転じた。
新規受注の伸び悩みや、中東情勢によ
る国際物流コストの上昇が民間企業の
景況感を圧迫した。
◼ HKMAはFRBに追随して利上げ
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋1.7％と、前
月（同＋1.7％）から横ばいで推移。
９月17日、香港金融管理局（HKMA）
は利上げを決定（＋25bps、4.00％
→4.25％）。前日にFRBが利上げを決
定したことを受けて、これに追随した。
◼ 消費は緩やかに増加
７月の実質小売売上高は前年比＋
2.4％と、前月（同＋2.2％）に続き増
加。週末を中心に香港住民が深センな
ど中国本土へ越境して買い物を行う
「北上消費」により、域内の百貨店や
外食チェーンの売上が伸び悩んだ。
◼ 輸出は引き続き増加
７月の輸出量は前年比＋31.7％と、前
月（同＋34.2％）に続き増加。AI関連
を中心とする域内貿易の活発化により、
輸出量が増加した。
香港
PMI
（注）直近は７月。

（注）直近は８月。
（注）直近は７月。再輸出を含む輸出量の指数。
（注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
輸出国内消費
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 9

8
PMI
（注）直近は８月。シンガポール購買・原料管理研究所の公表値。
◼ PMIは引き続き拡大
８月の製造業PMIは51.5と、前月
（51.4）に続き拡大。AIサーバーおよ
び先端半導体の旺盛な需要を背景に、
エレクトロニクス部門が拡大を続け、
製造業PMI全体を押し上げた。
◼ 政策為替レートは増価
直近（７月27日）の金融政策では、シ
ンガポール通貨金融庁（MAS)は、政策
為替レートS$NEERの誘導目標の傾斜を
「若干引き上げる」とし、引き続き金
融引き締めを実施。政策為替レートは
足もとで141.83と増価。
◼ 消費は増加幅が縮小
７月の実質小売売上高は前年比＋1.5％
と、前月（同＋4.0％）から増加幅が縮
小。８月の自動車登録台数も同▲1.4％
と、前月（同+7.0％）から減少に転じ
た。
◼ 輸出は増加に転じる
８月の実質輸出額は前年比＋10.7％と、
前月（同▲3.0％）から増加に転じた。
AI関連の先端電子部品に対する世界的
な需要により、非石油輸出を中心に、

主要市場向けの輸出数量が大きく拡大
した。
（注）直近は８/28日の週。破線は直近２回の政策決定タイミング。
政策為替レート
輸出国内消費
（注）直近は実質小売売上高が７月、自動車登録台数が８月。 （注）直近は８月。再輸出を除いた地場輸出の実質輸出額。
シンガポール
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 10

9
PMI
（注）直近は８月。小売売上高の直近値は中銀予測値。
（注）直近は８月。 （注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
輸出国内消費
（注）直近は石炭、パーム油が６月、その他は７月。（）内は25年輸出額に占める割合。
◼ PMIは再び縮小に転じる
８月の製造業PMIは49.8と、前月
（50.2）から悪化し、再び縮小に転じ
た。投入コストの上昇や海外需要の鈍
化により、一部の工場で生産調整が行
われたこと等が影響した。
◼ BIは市場予想通りの据え置き
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋3.2％と、前
月（同＋2.9％）から加速。一部の食料
価格が上昇し、総合CPIを押し上げた。
９月23日、インドネシア銀行（BI）は
政策金利の据え置きを決定（5.75％）。
据え置きは市場予想通り。声明文では、
「2026年と2027年のインフレ目標
2.5±１%内の達成を維持し、持続可能
な経済成長を支援するなかで、ルピア
の安定化とも整合している」とした。
◼ 消費は増加に転じる

７月の小売売上高は前年比＋1.2％と、
前月（同▲3.0％）から増加に転じた。
８月の中銀予測値は同＋0.4％と、増加
幅は縮小するものの、引き続き増加す
る見通し。
◼ 輸出は引き続き増加
７月の輸出は前年比＋6.0％と、前月
（同＋8.8％）に続き増加。
インドネシア
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 11

10
◼ PMIは引き続き拡大
８月の製造業PMIは53.8と、前月
（54.2）に続き拡大。生産指数と新規受
注指数が拡大し、ヘッドラインを押し上
げた。
◼ BOTは市場予想通りの据え置き
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋2.5％と、前月
（同＋1.9％）から伸びが加速。食料価
格が上昇し、総合CPIを押し上げた。
８月26日、タイ中銀（BOT）は政策金利
の据え置きを決定。据え置きは市場予想
通り。声明文では「現在の政策金利が経
済回復を支えるのに適切である」とした。
◼ 消費は引き続き減少
６月の小売売上高は前年比▲18.3％と、
前月（同▲18.2％）に続き減少。前年の
裏要因に加え、エネルギー価格の上昇な
ど家計負担の増加から、百貨店等の売上
げが減少した。７月の新車販売台数は同
＋20.1％と５か月連続で増加し、回復の
動きがみられる。
◼ 観光客数は減少
８月単月は約252万人、前年比▲2.6％
と減少。中国からの観光客が同＋17.6％
と、前月（同＋9.3％）と増加幅が拡大
したものの、ASEAN諸国が同▲12.9％

と引き続き減少した。
PMI
（注）直近は小売売上高が６月、新車販売台数が７月、消費者コンフィデンスが８月。
（注）直近は８月。
（注）26年は８月時点実績。
（注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
外国人観光客数国内消費
タイ
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 12

11
◼ PMIは拡大ペースが加速
８月の製造業PMIは54.9と、前月
（51.8）から拡大ペースが大きく加速。
国内受注の増加と、旺盛な需要を受け
た企業の積極的な在庫増強、雇用拡大
がヘッドラインを押し上げた。
◼ BSPはインフレ抑制の利上げ
８月の総合インフレ率は、前年比＋
6.1％と、前月（同＋6.2％）からわず
かに鈍化したものの、引き続きインフ
レ目標の範囲を上回って推移。
８月27日、フィリピン中銀（BSP）は
利上げを決定（＋25bps、4.75％
→5.00％）。利上げは市場予想通り。
声明文では、エルニーニョ現象や賃金
上昇に対して先手を打つ重要性に触れ
つつ、「政策金利の段階的な引き上げ
により、引き続きインフレ期待は安定
し、追加的な二次的影響のリスクを抑
制する見込みである」とした。
◼ 新車販売台数は減少幅が縮小
７月の新車販売台数は前年比▲2.5％と、
前月（同▲8.0％）から減少幅が縮小。
◼ 輸出は増加幅が減少
７月の輸出は前年比＋10.8％と、前月

（同＋25.0％）から増加幅が縮小。
フィリピン
PMI
（注）直近は７月。
（注）直近は８月。
（注）直近は７月。 （）内は25年輸出額に占める割合。
（注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
輸出国内消費
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 13

12
◼ PMIは拡大ペースが鈍化
８月の製造業PMIは50.2と、前月
（50.7）から拡大ペースが鈍化。
◼ BNMは市場予想通りの据え置き
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋1.9％と、前
月（同＋1.8％）からわずかに加速。
ディーゼル燃料補助金の見直しに伴う輸
送コストの上昇等が総合CPIを押し上げ
た。
９月３日、マレーシア中銀（BNM）は
政策金利の据え置きを決定。据え置きは
市場予想通り。声明文では「現在の政策
金利水準における金融政策スタンスにつ
いて、物価の安定維持および持続的な経
済成長の見通しと整合的である」とした。
◼ 消費は引き続き増加
７月の小売売上高は前年比＋4.1％と、
前月（同＋4.2％）に続き増加。７月の
新車販売台数は同＋5.1％と、前月（＋
23.8）から増加幅は縮小したものの、
増加を維持した。
◼ 輸出は増加幅が拡大
８月の輸出は前年比＋45.5％と、前月
（同＋38.0％）から増加幅が拡大。半
導体、電気・電子機器の輸出が米国やア
ジア向けに増加し、輸出を支えた。

PMI
（注）直近は７月。
（注）直近は８月。
（注）直近は８月。現地通貨建ての輸出額。（）内は25年輸出額に占める割合。
（注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
輸出国内消費
マレーシア
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 14

13
PMI インフレ率と政策金利
（注）直近は８月。小売売上高の直近値は当局予測値。
（注）直近は８月。
（注）直近は８月。 米ドル建ての輸出額。（）内は25年輸出額に占める割合。
◼ PMIは引き続き拡大
８月の製造業PMIは53.3と、前月
（52.9）に続き拡大。新規受注の増加
がヘッドラインを押し上げた。
◼ インフレ率は加速
８月の総合CPIは前年比＋4.9％と、前
月（同＋4.4％）から加速。ガソリンお
よび軽油の値上げにより輸送費のプラ
ス寄与が拡大し、ヘッドラインを押し
上げた。
◼ 消費は引き続き増加
７月の小売売上高は前年比＋16.7％と、
前月（同＋16.2％）に続き増加。観光
関連や宿泊・飲食サービスを中心に増
加した。８月の当局予測値は同＋
15.8％と、引き続き増加する見通し。
８月の新車販売台数は同▲12.9％と、
前月（同▲5.0％）に続き減少。
◼ 輸出は引き続き増加
８月の輸出は前年比＋29.5％と、前月
（同＋28.3％）に続き増加。電子製品
や機械設備等、幅広いカテゴリーで輸

出が増加した。
（注）直近はリファイナンスレート、ディスカウントレートが９/23日、その他が８月。
輸出国内消費
ベトナム
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 15

14
PMI
（注）直近は消費者コンフィデンスが９月、家計支出が７月。 SA系列。
（注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が７月。25/４月以降は新基準の月次CPI前年比。
◼ PMIは拡大ペースが鈍化
９月の総合PMIは50.8と、前月
（52.7）から拡大ペースが鈍化。製造
業PMIは49.3と、前月（52.0）から悪
化し、縮小に転じた。生産指数が縮小す
るもと、新規受注指数が縮小に転じ、
ヘッドラインを押し下げた。
◼ インフレ率は目標を上回って推移
７月の総合CPIは前年比＋3.5％と、前
月（同＋3.8％）から鈍化。連邦政府が
実施ている燃油税を半減させる物価抑制
策が延長され、輸送費のプラス寄与が縮
小した。もっとも、基調的な物価を示す
トリム平均CPIは同3.6％と、前月（同
3.6％）から横ばいで推移しており、引
き続きインフレ目標の範囲を上回って推
移している。
◼ 消費は引き続き増加
７月の家計支出は前期比＋1.1％と、前
月（同＋1.0％）に続き増加。幅広いカ
テゴリーで支出が増加し、減税効果や賃

金上昇が消費を後押しした。
◼ 輸出は減少に転じる
７月の輸出は前期比▲3.3％と、前月
（同＋10.1％）から減少に転じた。鉄
鉱石価格の低下や一部金属資源の輸出減
少が影響した。
（注）直近は７月。SA系列。（）内は25年輸出額に占める割合。
（注）直近は９月。
インフレ率と政策金利
輸出消費と住宅投資
オーストラリア
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 16

15
◼ PMIは引き続き拡大
８月の総合PMIは51.6と、前月（51.1）
に続き拡大。製造業PMIは53.1と、前月
（54.3）から拡大ペースが鈍化したもの
の、サービス業PMIの拡大ペースが加速
した。
◼ RBNZはインフレ抑制の利上げ
４～６月期の総合CPIは前年比＋4.1％と、
前期（同＋3.1％）から加速。中東情勢
の悪化を受けて燃料価格が上昇し、総合
CPIを押し上げた。
９月２日、RBNZは利上げを決定（＋
25bps、2.50%→2.75％）。利上げは
市場予想通り。声明文では「インフレ率
を目標の中間値である２％に戻しつつ、
経済成長と雇用を維持するためには、金
融緩和策を段階的に縮小することが適切
である」とした。
◼ 消費は減少に転じる
４～６月の小売売上高は前期比▲0.5％
と、前期（同＋1.0％）から減少に転じ
た。８月のクレジットカード等取引は同
▲0.5％と、前月（同＋0.9％）から減少
に転じた。
◼ 輸出は増加に転じる
８月の輸出は前期比＋7.0％と、前月

（同▲4.3％）から増加に転じた。
PMI
（注）直近は小売売上高が26/２Q、その他が８月。 SA系列。
（注）直近は政策金利が９/23日、その他が26/２Q。
（注）直近は８月。SA系列。（）内は25年輸出額に占める割合。
（注）直近は８月。
インフレ率と政策金利
輸出消費
ニュージーランド
（出所）Macrobond、S&P Globalより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 17

したものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が
信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、
完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告なく変更されることが
あります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社
の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限りません。

---
## Document 398: アジア・マンスリー2026年10月号 （PDF：1805KB）

Source PDF: all report pdf/アジア・マンスリー2026年10月号 （PDF：1805KB）.pdf
Report source: JRI
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 15
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

Vol.26  No.307 
             2026 年 10 月 
「経済・政策情報メールマガジン」、「X（旧 Twitter）」、「YouTube」でも情報を発信しています。 
https://www.jri.co.jp/company/business/research/mailmagazine/form/ 
https://mobile.twitter.com/jri_eco 
https://www.youtube.com/@株式会社日本総合研究

＜メルマガ＞ ＜X（旧Twitter）＞
 ＜YouTube＞

アジア・マンスリー 
（ASIA MONTHLY）

トピックス 
１． 中国の成長分野における赤字企業の増加 （ 関  辰一 ） ・ ・・ ・・ 1 
２． 気候変動が高めるアジアの成長停滞リスク （ 細井  友洋 ） ・ ・ ・ 3

各国・地域の経済動向  
1. 韓 国 景 気 回 復 の 勢 い 、 年 後 半 は 鈍 化 ・ ・ ・ ・ ・・・・ ・ ・ 5  
2. インドネシ ア 景 気 は 堅 調 も 、 気 候 要 因 が 先 行 き の 重 石 に ・・ ・ ・ ・ 6  
3. マ レ ー シ ア 外 需 主 導 で 足 元 の 景 気 は 持 ち 直 し ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・・・ ・ 7  
4. 中 国 景 気 は 停 滞 局 面 続 く ・・ ・・・・ ・・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・・ ・ 8

ア ジ ア 諸 国 ・ 地 域 の 主 要 経 済 指 標 ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・ ・・ ・ ・ ・ ・ 9

### Page 2

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
1
中国の成長分野における赤字企業の増加
中国では、 赤字企業が増加している。 とりわけ、 成長分野における増加が顕著である。 この要因の一つは、
し烈な企業間競争による選別である。また、赤字でも潜在力が評価される次世の成長企業も多い。
■成長分野における赤字企業の増加
近年、中国では成長分野における赤字企業の
増加が顕著である。上場企業数に占める赤字企
業の比率（赤字企業比率）は2019年の 9.6％か
ら 2025年に 26.9％へ急上昇している （右上図）。
赤字企業の業種分布をみると、2019～22 年は、
新型コロナウイルス対策として実施された厳格
な外出規制や不動産不況を受けて、飲食・宿泊
業上場企業（以下、上場企業を省略）や不動産
業など非製造業を中心に増加した。 一方で、2022
～25 年には、情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイ
ス、はん用・生産用・業務用機械、電気機械、

化学工業で赤字企業が急増している。これら 4
分野だけで全体の上昇分の約6割を説明できる。
これらの分野は中国製造業の代表的な成長分
野である。実際、この 4 分野の付加価値額の増
加率は、いずれも中国製造業の平均値を上回る。
中国政府が重点的に育成してきたハイテク製造
業も、 これらの分野に多数含まれる。 たとえば、
5G基地局や半導体は、 情報通信機器・電子部品・
デバイスに分類される。ロボットは、はん用・
生産用・業務用機械に含まれる。太陽電池や蓄
電池は電気機械、バイオ医薬品や有機化学素材
は化学工業に属している。
情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイス製造業の
近年の動きをみると、2019年頃から世界的に通信規格が4G（LTE）から 5G サービスへの移行
がみられ、2022年 11 月に ChatGPTが公開された。これらが、同分野の成長の追い風となって
いる。 足元では、 一般の消費者や企業がAIサービスを日常的に利用できることが示されたことで、
AI向け端末や半導体、 データセンターの需要が急増している。 こうしたなか、 多くの企業が開発・

製造・販売の強化に注力しており、 同分野の付加価値額は2022年の7,800億元から2025年に9,100
億元へと増加し続けている。その一方で、赤字企業数は同期間に113社から 198社へ増加し、赤
字企業比率は17.2％から 30.1％へと急上昇している（右下図）。
■企業間競争を通じた選別
成長分野でありながら赤字企業が増加している理由の一つは、し烈な企業間競争である。市場
シェアを巡って、設備投資競争や価格競争が過熱している。情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイス
主任研究員 関 辰一
(seki.shinichi@jri.co.jp）
＜中国の赤字企業比率＞
（％）
30
25
20
15
10
5
0
2012 14 16 18 20 22 24
（年）
（資料）Windを基に日本総研作成
（注）上場企業の財務データ。
5
0
＜付加価値額と赤字企業比率＞
付加価値額（左目盛）
赤字企業比率（右目盛） （％）
35
（億 元）
10,000
8,000 30
25
6,000 20

4,000 15
10
2,000
0
2019 22 25
（年）
（資料）Windを基に日本総研作成
（注）情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイス製造
業上場企業の財務データ。

### Page 3

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
2
製造業についてみると、2022年から 2025年の
期間における固定資産残高の増加率（＋35.4％）
は、付加価値額の増加率（＋16.9％）を大きく
上回る。これは、供給能力が需要を上回るベー
スで拡大していることを示している。また、消
費者物価指数（CPI）は同期間に＋0.4％とほぼ
横ばい、そのうちサービス価格は賃金上昇など
を反映して同＋2.2％上昇している一方で、財
（モノ）の価格は製造業における供給超過によ
り同▲0.7％下落している。情報通信機器価格の
下落幅は▲3.5％と財全体と比べても大きい。
企業間競争を通じた選別が進んだ結果、利益
は競争力の高い少数企業に集中している。情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイス製造業の利益総額
に占めるトップ1％企業の利益の割合が2022年の 24.0％から 2025年に 43.3％へと、 大きく上昇
している（右上図）。有力企業は「国内チャンピオン企業」であると同時に「グローバル・チャ

ンピオン企業」としてのポジションを形成しつつある。
■赤字でも潜在力が評価される次代の成長企業
ただし、赤字企業を敗者としてひとくくりにすることはできない。近年、世界的には赤字であ
っても成長性が高い企業に対する投資家の関心が高まっており、中国においても同様な赤字企業
が少なからず存在している。
情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイス製造業に
ついてみると、赤字企業の2 社のうち 1 社は投
資家が高い関心を示している企業である。上海
総合株価指数は、2023年初の 3,089ポイントか
ら2025年末に3,969ポイントへと＋28.5％上昇
した。2025年の赤字企業198社のうち 2023年
時点で上場していなかった 20 社を除くと 178
社となる。この178社のうち 96社（53. 9％）
の当該期間における株価上昇率は、上海総合株
価指数の上昇率を上回る（右下図）。
この相対株価パフォーマンスの良い 96 社の
特徴の一つは、研究開発や無形資産への投資に
積極的である点である。96社の 2022年の R&D

集約度（研究開発投資／売上高）の平均値は
9.6％、無形資産残高の対付加価値額比率も60.5％に達している。無形資産には、コンピュータの
ソフトウェア、特許、著作権、顧客や仕入れ先との関係などが含まれる。これに対し、相対株価
パフォーマンスの悪い赤字企業82 社の R&D 集約度は 6.5％、無形資産残高の対付加価値額比率
は 38.9％にとどまる。
このように、中国の成長分野における赤字企業の増加は顕著であり、その背景には企業間競争
による選別だけでなく、潜在力が評価される次代の成長企業が生まれていることも大きい。
＜トップ1％企業の利益シェア＞
（％）
50
40
30
20
10
0
2015 17 19 21 23 25
（年）
（資料）Windを基に日本総研作成
（注）情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイス製造業上場
企業の財務データ。
＜相対株価パフォーマンス別赤字企業の分布＞
相対株価 相対株価
パフォーマンスの パフォーマンスの
悪い赤字企業, 良い赤字企業,
46.1％ 53.9％

（資料）Windを基に日本総研作成
（注）情報通信機器・電子部品・デバイス製造業
上場企業における赤字企業の財務データ。

### Page 4

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
3
気候変動が高めるアジアの成長停滞リスク
気候変動は、労働生産性や資本蓄積の停滞を通じて ASEAN・インドの成長停滞リスクを高め得る。その
軽減・回避に向け、官民による「適応投資」を促す事業環境と制度の整備が急務である。
■アジアで深刻化する大雨・洪水被害
アジアでは近年、 人的被害を伴う大規模な大雨
や洪水が頻発している（右上表）。記憶に新しい
のは、本年 8月にネパールと中国の国境付近で発
生した土石流であり、本稿執筆時点では死者・行
方不明者が数千人に上る大災害となっている。ま
た、昨年11月にも東南アジア・南アジアで記録
的な豪雨が発生し、 インドネシアとスリランカを
中心に多数の犠牲者が出た。
こうした洪水・大雨のリスクを高める要因の一
つが、気候変動である。気温が上昇すると大気に
含まれる水蒸気量が増えるため、 地球温暖化は豪
雨の激甚化をもたらし得る。 こうしたリスクはア

ジア全体に共通するものだが、 その影響の受け方
は地域によって異なる。なかでもASEAN・イン
ドは、モンスーン（季節風）の影響を強く受け、
雨季に降水が集中する地域が多い。 こうした地域
では、 温暖化によりモンスーンがもたらす大雨をさらに強め、 洪水や土砂災害のリスクを高める。
■気候変動が遠ざける「中所得国の罠」からの脱却
気候変動は、自然災害による人的被害をもたらすのみならず、様々な経路を通じてASEAN・
インド各国の長期的な経済成長力を損なう可能性がある。ADB［2024］は、気候変動がアジア各
国の経済を長期的にどの程度下押しするかについて、定量的な分析を行った。この分析は、IPCC
の「温室効果ガス高排出シナリオ（SSP5-8.5）」に基づき、産業革命以前と比較して2100 年ま
でに地球の平均気温が4.7℃上昇すると仮定したうえで、気候変動がなかった場合の実質GDPと
の差分を推計したものである。推計結果は、気候変動が招く海水面上昇、洪水、熱波などの事象
が、労働生産性の低下や資本蓄積の停滞、消費の

下押しを通じて経済成長に及ぼす長期的な影響
を示している。
結果を見ると、各国・地域とも気候変動がなか
った場合と比べた実質GDPの下押し幅は、2035
年、2050年、2070年と時間の経過とともに拡大
していくことがわかる （右下図）。また、ASEAN・
インドの下押し幅は、2050年時点で▲15.0～▲
8.8％、2070年時点で▲30.2～▲18.1％と、中国
（2050 年：▲4.8％、2070 年：▲10.3％）や中
主任研究員 細井 友洋
(hosoi.tomohiro@jri.co.jp）
▲4 0
▲3 0
▲2 0
▲1 0
0
インド 中国
2070年 2050年 2035年
（％）
（資料）ADB［2024］を基に日本総研作成
（注）「東南アジア（高所得）」はブルネイ、シンガ
ポール、マレーシア、タイの合計。
＜気候変動による実質GDP損失＞
インド
ネシア
ベト
ナム
東南
アジア
（高所得）
フィリ
ピン
中央
アジア
＜近年の主な大雨・洪水被害（アジア）＞
時期／地域 被害内容

2024年7月
インド
2024年9月
ベトナム
2025年11月
インドネシア
2025年11月
スリランカ
2026年7月
中国
2026年8月
ネパール・中国
（資料）各種報道・発表を基に日本総研作成
（注）人的被害は報道等で得られた情報ベースであり、
その後更新されている可能性がある。
・南部で大雨に伴う大規模な地滑りが発生。
・死者298人。
・北部に上陸した台風とその後の長雨により、
洪水・地滑り・広域浸水が発生。
・死者323人、行方不明者22人。
・スマトラ島北部での断続的な豪雨により、広
範囲で洪水・土砂崩れが発生。
・死者1,180人、行方不明者145人。
・サイクロンに伴う豪雨により広範 囲で洪水・
土砂崩れ発生。
・死者649人、行方不明者173人。
・台風に伴う豪雨で大規模洪水が発生。
・広西チワン族自治区で死者159人、行方不
明者10人。
・氷河の崩壊による大規模な土石流が発生。
・ネパール側では死者1,395人、行方不明者
5,130人。

### Page 5

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
4
央アジア諸国（2050年：▲1.7％、2070 年：▲
3.8％）に比べて大きい。ASEAN・インドはアジ
アのなかでも気候変動による経済停滞リスクが
相対的に大きい地域であると言えよう。
このことは、ASEAN・インドが直面する「中
所得国の罠」 からの脱却を一段と難しくするおそ
れがある。これらの地域では、所得水準は上昇し
ているものの、 高所得国の基準にはなお距離があ
る（右上図）。1990年代またはそれ以前に中所
得国となったインドネシア、マレーシア、フィリ
ピン、タイは、長らく高所得国入りを果たせてい
ない。また、2000 年代以降に中所得国となった
ベトナムとインドも、 中国がかつて経験したよう
な高成長軌道には乗れていない。気候変動は、気
温上昇による労働生産性の停滞や災害の頻発化
による投資抑制などを通じて、ASEAN・インド
の所得向上をさらに遅らせる要因となり得る。

■「適応投資」の加速に向けた環境整備が重要
こうした気候変動による成長下押しを緩和す
るには、官民による「適応投資」の拡大が不可欠
である。具体的には、気温上昇に伴う労働生産性
の低下を和らげる労働環境の改善や省力化・省人化、海水面上昇・洪水による生産設備への被害
を防ぐインフラ整備・設備強靭化などが挙げられる。もっとも、ASEAN・インドは、こうした適
応投資を推進する官民の基盤が十分に整っているとは言いがたい。
米ノートルダム大学は「グローバル適応イニシアティブ（ND-GAIN）」のなかで、投資を活用
して気候変動への適応につなげる国の能力を「適応準備度」として指標化しており、経済、ガバ
ナンス、社会の 3 項目から評価を行っている。それぞれ、①民間企業が適応投資を行いやすい事
業環境が準備されているか、②官民の投資を支える制度や政治の実効性が確保されているか、③
投資を促進するソフト・ハード面での社会インフラが整っているか、を評価するものである。
2024年の適応準備度を見ると、ASEAN・インドの世界順位は総じて中位～下位圏にとどまり、

先進国との差が大きい（右下表）。とりわけ、フィリピン、インド、タイは100位圏外に位置し、
適応投資の推進力が弱いことがうかがえる。内訳を見ると、とくに経済面とガバナンス面に問題
がみられる。インドとタイの経済準備度はそれぞれ113 位、124 位と際立って低く、ガバナンス
準備度もマレーシアを除く5 カ国で 100 位圏外にとどまる。これらを踏まえると、インドとタイ
ではとくに、民間企業による適応投資の加速に向けて、必要資金を内外から調達しやすくする金
融環境整備、新事業立ち上げを促進する規制の緩和、人材を円滑に確保できる労働市場改革など
を急ぐ必要がある。加えて、地域全体として、政策の安定性向上や法制度の実効性確保、汚職の
抑制など、官民投資を支える制度・政治の信頼性を高めることも重要である。
（参考文献）
ASIAN DEVELOPMENT BANK (ADB) [2024]. “ASIA–PACIFIC CLIMATE REPORT 2024
CATALYZING FINANCE AND POLICY SOLUTIONS.”

高所得国の基準（2025年）
＜一人当たり名目GNI＞
国・地域 適応
準備度
経済 ガバナンス 社会
シンガポール 1 2 3 3
韓国 3 1 30 1
日本 13 15 16 11
マレーシア 64 50 61 97
ベトナム 84 57 100 85
インドネシア 95 63 107 91
フィリピン 111 81 126 115
インド 117 113 106 85
タイ 123 124 111 83
（資料）University of Notre Dame「ND-GAIN」
（2026）を基に日本総研作成
＜ND-GAIN・適応準備度の世界順位＞
（2024年）
199  5年  2005年 201  5年 2025年
（100ドル）
150
100
50
0
インド フィ リ  ベト インド  タイ マレー 中国
ピン  ナム ネシア
（資料）世界銀行を基に日本総研作成
シア

### Page 6

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
5
韓 国  景気回復の勢い、年後半は鈍化
■AI需要を追い風に景気は回復
韓国景気は回復している。実質GDPは 1～3月
期に大きく増加した後、4～6月期も前期比＋0.6％
とプラス成長を維持した（右上図）。
外需が景気回復をけん引している。AI利用の拡
大、とりわけ推論需要の増加に伴い、韓国企業が
強みを持つメモリ半導体への需要が急増している。
これを背景に、輸出額は過去最高水準で推移して
いる。
個人消費は良好な所得環境や政府の支援策に支
えられ、緩やかに増加している。大手企業では、
高水準の賃上げやボーナスの増加を背景に、上半
期の平均給与が前年同期比＋ 7.1％と大きく増加
した。一方、雇用の多くを占める中小企業では、
賃金がほとんど増加しておらず、所得格差が拡大
している。こうしたなか、政府は中東情勢悪化に
よる物価高の影響を和らげるため、4月から所得下
位 7 割を対象に最大約6 万円相当の支援金を給付

した。これにより中低所得層の購買力が下支えさ
れ、中東危機による消費への悪影響が緩和された。
設備投資も増加している。AI需要の拡大を背景に、半導体関連産業で設備投資が活発化してい
ることに加え、研究開発やソフトウェア投資も増加している。
■個人消費の減速が景気の重石に
年後半も韓国経済は回復基調を維持し、 今年の実質GDP成長率は＋3.2％に達すると予想する。
AI投資の収益性を巡る懸念は根強いものの、 海外のデータセンター投資は引き続き拡大しており、
半導体を中心としたAI関連財の輸出は高水準を維持する見込みである。
もっとも、個人消費は徐々に減速する見通しである。政府による支援金の押し上げ効果がはく
落することに加え、エネルギー価格の高騰が幅広い財・サービス価格に転嫁され、家計の購買力
が圧迫されると予想する。
足元の消費者物価は前年比＋3％前後と、金融政策運営上の物価目標である＋2％を上回ってい
る。エネルギー価格の高止まりに加え、パソコンやスマートフォンなど半導体搭載製品の価格が

上昇していることが背景にある。インフレ抑制に向けて、韓国銀行は7 月から 2 カ月連続で政策
金利を 0.25％ポイントずつ引き上げ、3.0％とした。
反面、急速な利上げで景気が下押しされるリスクもある。韓国では諸外国と比べて家計債務残
高が大きく、変動金利型ローンの割合も高い（右下図）。金利上昇による利払い負担の増加は、
家計の可処分所得を減少させ、個人消費を下押しする恐れがある。さらに、資金調達の難化や建
設コストの上昇を通じて、建設不況が長期化する可能性もある。実際、建設会社の廃業申請数は
前年から 1割以上増加している。
研究員 今川 冬馬（imaga wa.thoma@jri.co.jp）
民間消費 政府消費
総固定資本形成 在庫投資
純輸出 その他
実質GDP成長率
▲2
▲1
0
1
2
3
2023 24 25 26
＜実質GDP成⻑率（前期⽐）＞
（資料）CEICを基に日本総研作成 （年/期）
（%）
0
20
40
60
80
100
韓国 英国 日本 米国 フランス ドイツ

＜家計債務残高対GDP⽐＞
（％）
（資料）CEICを基に日本総研作成
（注）2026年第1四半期のデータ。

### Page 7

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
6
インドネシア 景気は堅調も、気候要因が先行きの重石に
■4～6月期は 5％台の成長を維持
インドネシアの2026年 4～6月期の実質GDP
成長率は前年同期比＋5.3％と、 前期（同＋5.6％）
からは減速したものの、なお堅調な伸びを維持
している（右上図）。需要項目別にみると、個
人消費が小幅に減速した。原油高に伴うインフ
レの高進が、家計の実質所得を下押ししたこと
が背景にある。一方、プラボウォ政権の看板政
策である 「無料給食プログラム」 などを背景に、
政府消費は同＋16.0％と、前期（同＋21.8％）に
引き続き高い伸びとなった。投資の拡大を背景
に、総固定資本形成は同＋6.9％と、前期の同＋
6.0％から加速した。
外需の面では、輸出が同＋4.1％と、前期（同
＋0.9％）から大幅に加速した。パーム油やニッ
ケル関連製品などの財輸出が増加したことに加
え、インバウンドの回復に伴いサービス輸出も

高い伸びを維持した。他方、設備投資の拡大に
伴い、生産用原材料や中間財の輸入も急増した
ため、 純輸出の成長率寄与度はマイナスとなっ
た。
■気候要因が先行きの景気を下押し
先行き、中東危機に伴うエネルギー価格の高止まりが幅広い財・サービス価格に転嫁されるこ
とで、物価上昇圧力が強まると予想する。加えて、気候要因も内需の重石になるとみられる。
インドネシア気象庁（BMKG）によると、8 月の Niño3.4（エルニーニョ現象やラニーニャ現
象の発生を監視・判断するための指標）は＋2.8℃に達し、エルニーニョ現象は極めて強い状態に
ある（右下図）。また、インド洋東西の海面水温差を示すインド洋ダイポールモード指数（IOD
指数）も＋0.38℃と、正のIODが発生する基準値の目安とされる＋0.4℃付近まで上昇した。世界
気象機関（WMO）は、今後、正のIODが形成されると予測している。エルニーニョに正のIOD
が重なれば、インドネシア周辺の対流活動が弱まり、少雨傾向が一段と強まるとみられる。
こうした気候条件が続けば、森林火災が発生しやすくなるほか、干ばつによる農産物生産の下

振れを通じて、食料品を中心に物価上昇圧力が高まる。8 月の消費者物価はすでに前年同月比＋
3.2％と、物価目標レンジの上限に近く、一段と上昇すれば、家計の実質購買力が低下し、個人消
費の伸びが鈍化すると見込まれる。さらに、干ばつによって国内供給が不足すれば、食料品輸入
の増加が経常赤字の拡大を招き、ルピア安圧力を強める。インドネシア銀行（中央銀行）は通貨
防衛を目的に金融引き締め姿勢を続けるとみられ、物価高・ルピア安・金利高が同時に進行する
場合、家計の耐久財消費や住宅購入、企業の設備投資を一段と下押しすると見込まれる。
研究員 呉 子婧（ wu.zijing@jri.co.jp）
個人消費 政府消費
総固定資本形成 純輸出
その他 実質GDP成長率
▲8
▲6
▲4
▲2
0
2
4
6
8
2019 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（%）
（資料）CEICを基に日本総研作成
＜実質GDP成⻑率（前年同期⽐）＞
（年/期）
＜Niño3.4とIOD指数の推移＞
（℃）
4
Niño3.4 IOD指数

3
2
1
0
20 25 26 （年/月）
（資料）インドネシア気象庁を基に日本総研作成
▲ 1
▲ 2
↑正のIOD
↓負のIOD

### Page 8

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
7
マレーシア 外需主導で足元の景気は持ち直し
■輸出が成長をけん引
マレーシア経済は、外需の拡大を主因に成長
ペースが高まっている。2026年 4～6 月期の実
質 GDP成長率は前年同期比＋6.0％と、 前期 （同
＋5.4％）から加速した（右上図）。
需要項目別にみると、外需が景気をけん引し
ている。世界的なAIブームを背景に、電子機器
や関連部品の輸出が好調に推移したことに加え、
液化天然ガス（LNG）の出荷も回復しつつある
ことから、財輸出は同＋16.8 ％と前期（同＋
2.5％）から大幅に拡大した。サービス輸出も、
外国人旅行者の増加や旅行支出の拡大を受けて、
同＋18.0％と高成長を維持した。
こうした外需の好調は内需にも波及している。
良好な雇用・所得環境を背景に家計の消費行動
は底堅く、個人消費は同＋4.8％と、前期の同＋
4.7％から小幅に伸びが高まった。生活支援策の

拡大を受けて、政府消費も大幅に増加した。一
方、総固定資本形成は同＋4.6％と、これまでの
高い伸び （前期同＋7.3％） から増勢が鈍化した。
中東情勢の不透明感が、企業の投資計画の実行
延期を招いたと考えられる。
先行きを展望すると、マレーシア経済は拡大
が続くものの、成長ペースは徐々に鈍化する見
通しである。世界的な AI ブームが当面継続し、
外需の堅調が続く一方、個人消費の増勢は徐々に鈍化するとみられる。不透明な中東情勢を背景
としたエネルギー価格の高止まりや、エルニーニョ現象による農業生産の停滞・食料品価格の高
騰がインフレ圧力を高め、家計消費を下押しすると予想される。
■半導体産業の高度化に向けた取り組みが具体化
マレーシア政府は半導体産業の高付加価値化に向けて、4 月以降、IC 設計支援や先端パッケー
ジング投資を柱とする一連の取り組みを公表した（右下表）。こうした取り組みが軌道に乗れば、
従来強みとしてきた半導体製造の後工程（組立・検査）を土台に、上流の設計や先端分野へと産

業の裾野を広げ、中長期的な成長力の向上につながると期待される。もっとも、同地域のベトナ
ムやフィリピンも後工程が中心の半導体産業の改革に乗り出している。域内での投資・人材獲得
競争が激化するなか、マレーシアが競争優位を確保できるかは、高度人材の育成や政策推進のス
ピードにかかっていると言えよう。
研究員 呉 子婧（ wu.zijing@jri.co.jp）
個人消費 政府消費
総固定資本形成 純輸出
その他 実質GDP成長率
国内IC設計企業による試作や商用化を支援する
「MYChipStart」を始動。
先端パッケージング技術の研究開発計画が国家
優先ミッションの一つとして承認。国内3社にArm
の設計基盤・半導体IPへのアクセスを付与。
HBM4向けテストチップの概念実証などに官民合
わせて1億8,500万リンギを投じる方針を発表。
｢SemiconStart Malaysia｣を開始。半導体ス
タートアップ10社を対象に、1社当たり最大100
万リンギを支援。
主な内容
4月
5月

6月
7月
（資料）各種報道を基に日本総研作成
＜半導体産業高度化に向けた取り組み（2026年）＞
（%）
15
10
5
0
▲ 5
＜実質GDP成長率（前年同期比）＞
20 22  23 24
（資料）CEICを基に日本総研作成
25 26
（年/期）

### Page 9

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
8
中 国  景気は停滞局面続く
■内需低迷が経済の足かせに
中国景気は、 外需が好調に推移しているものの、
内需の低迷を補いきれない状況が続いている。
輸出（ドル建て）は高い伸びを持続し、8月は
前年同月比＋25.0％と、前月（同＋23.9％）から
小幅加速した。世界的な AI ブームを背景に IT
関連財の輸出が好調だったほか、EV需要の高ま
りを受け、 自動車輸出台数も3カ月連続で過去最
高水準となった。国・地域別では、米中関係の改
善を受け、対米輸出が持ち直した。
一方、内需は低迷が続いている（右上図）。8
月の固定資産投資は同▲10.6％と、 大幅な減少が
続いた。 ハイテク製造業による投資は政策支援へ
の期待を背景に増加したものの、 投資全体を押し
上げるには至らなかった。その他の業種では、価
格競争や生産調整を背景に投資は総じて縮小し
た。不動産開発投資も、市況悪化を背景に大幅減

が続いている。消費も停滞している。買い替え補
助で喚起された需要の反動減が自動車販売で顕
著になったほか、 宝飾品や高級店の販売減も加速
した。
消費者物価は、8 月に同＋0.8％と横ばい圏で
推移した。 原油価格や半導体価格の高騰による影
響はあるものの、 内需停滞によるディスインフレ
圧力の方が上回ったためとみられる。
■政府の成長率目標達成は困難
先行きも、中国経済は内需の停滞が続く見込みである。
固定資産投資は、政府の産業支援策を受けたハイテク製造業の投資拡大や、次世代通信網や物
流網の整備といった「六つのネットワーク」戦略を背景に、インフラ投資が増勢に転じる可能性
がある。もっとも、生産調整などの下押し要因が根強く残るため、本格回復は見込みにくい。
消費も、財を中心に低迷が続くと見込まれる。若年層を中心とした厳しい雇用・所得環境、家
計の根強い節約志向を背景に、消費者マインドの改善は当面期待できそうにない。
こうしたなか、習近平政権は8 月下旬、経済政策に関する論評を発表した（右下表）。それに

よると、供給が強く需要が弱い状態を経済運営上の重要課題と認めつつも、「強い景気刺激策に
過度に依存しない」方針を示した。加えて、月次指標や成長率の変化よりも、経済の質の向上や
リスク解消を重視する姿勢も明確にした。このため政府は、こうした方向性に反するような、即
効性・規模重視の景気刺激策には当分踏み切らない可能性が高い。 これにより、 政府が掲げた2026
年の成長率目標（＋4.5～5.0％）の達成は一段と遠のいたとみられる。
項目 主な指摘事項
・供給が強く、需要が弱い状況（供強需
弱）はなお突出。
・成⻑速度や⽉次指標の変化より質の向上
を重視する傾向に変化。
・強い景気刺激策に、過度に依存しない経
済運営を継続。
・地⽅政府債務や不動産市場などのリスク
解消策に注⼒。
・こうした⽅針は、短期の成⻑率にはマイナス
となるも、⻑期かつ持続的な経済発展には
プラス。
今後の経済
⾒通し
・年後半に、第15次5カ年計画等で確定し
た重点プロジェクトを執⾏すれば、経済は
安定的に運営。
中国経済の

現状評価
今後の
経済運営の
⽅向性
＜習近平政権の経済政策スタンス（鐘才文論評）＞
（資料）人⺠網などを基に日本総研作成
主任研究員 佐野 淳也（ sano.junya@jri.co.jp）
＜投資・消費関連指標（前年同月比）＞
（％）
8
4
0
固定資産投資
小売売上高
25 26
（年/月）
（資料）CEICを基に日本総研作成
（注）固定資産投資は年初来累計を基に計算。
▲ 4
▲ 8
▲ 12
▲ 16
▲ 2 0
2024

### Page 10

ASIA MONTHLY 2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
9
１．経済規模と所得水準（2025年）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
名目 GDP（億米ﾄﾞﾙ） 18,827 9,225 4,271 6,041 5,772 4,731 14,456 4,871 195,038 39,163 5,147
人口(百万人） 51.7 23.3 7.5 6.1 65.8 34.2 284.7 116.8 1,404.9 1,463.9 102.3
1人当たり GDP(米ﾄﾞﾙ） 36,427 39,592 56,871 98,858 8,771 13,825 5,078 4,171 13,883 2,675 5,029
２．実質GDP成長率（前年比、前年同期比、％）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム

2024年 2.0 5.3 2.5 5.3 2.9 5.1 5.0 5.7 5.0 7.1 7.0
2025年 1.0 8.8 3.6 5.0 2.4 5.2 5.1 4.4 5.0 7.7 8.0
2023 年10～12月 2.5 4.7 4.3 3.1 2.0 2.9 5.0 5.5 5.3 7.7 6.8
2024年1～3月 3.6 7.2 2.9 4.3 2.1 4.2 5.1 5.9 5.3 7.4 5.9
4～6月 2.6 5.3 3.0 4.8 2.7 6.0 5.0 6.5 4.7 7.5 7.2
7～9月 1.6 4.7 2.1 7.0 3.3 5.5 4.9 5.3 4.6 7.3 7.4
10～12月 1.1 4.1 2.5 5.3 3.7 5.0 5.0 5.3 5.4 7.4 7.5
2025年1～3月 0.2 5.5 3.2 4.5 3.1 4.4 4.9 5.4 5.4 6.6 7.0
4～6月 0.7 7.7 3.3 5.4 2.8 4.6 5.1 5.4 5.2 6.9 8.2

7～9月 2.1 8.4 3.8 4.5 1.2 5.3 5.0 4.0 4.8 8.1 8.3
10～12月 1.6 13.0 4.0 5.7 2.5 6.2 5.4 3.0 4.5 7.7 8.5
2026年1～3月 3.8 15.4 5.9 6.3 2.8 5.4 5.6 2.8 5.0 8.6 7.9
4～6月 3.7 12.9 4.3 5.9 1.9 5.8 5.3 2.3 4.3 7.8 8.4
３．製造業生産指数（前年比、前年同月比、％）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
2024年 4.2 12.2 0.8 3.8 -0.5 4.3 2.6 0.0 5.8 6.0 9.6
2025年 3.0 19.5 3.3 8.7 -0.4 4.5 3.7 0.1 5.9 4.7 10.5
2024年12月 5.4 20.7 0.9 5.0 -0.3 5.8 3.8 0.1 6.2 6.4 10.2
2025年1月 -4.1 6.1 10.2 -0.3 3.7 2.7 2.6 5.9 7.2 0.5

2⽉ 6.6 19.6 4.2 -3.4 4.8 6.2 -1.7 5.9 3.1 20.0
3月 6.0 14.9 0.7 11.1 0.9 4.0 0.6 -0.4 7.7 7.0 11.7
4月 5.5 26.7 9.2 2.0 5.6 10.0 -2.8 6.1 5.8 12.3
5月 1.0 26.1 8.1 2.0 2.8 2.1 -0.4 5.8 4.2 11.5
6月 4.3 22.3 0.9 14.1 0.3 3.6 2.1 2.2 6.8 2.4 9.2
7月 7.0 21.8 12.8 -3.6 4.4 3.2 -0.2 5.7 5.1 7.6
8月 2.3 16.4 -4.9 -3.7 2.8 2.2 1.9 5.2 3.6 9.9
9月 15.2 19.6 5.4 6.0 1.6 5.0 3.4 -0.3 6.5 5.5 12.5
10月 -7.7 16.8 15.0 0.5 6.5 1.5 1.6 4.9 -0.7 11.0
11月 0.1 19.3 8.2 -3.7 4.9 3.5 -1.2 4.8 8.8 10.5

12月 1.7 24.5 5.8 10.9 2.6 6.7 8.3 -0.3 5.2 7.7 10.9
2026年1月 6.8 29.7 9.5 1.6 7.3 2.4 -5.6 6.3 4.6 20.3
2月 -2.0 18.3 7.2 0.1 4.2 2.8 3.7 6.3 5.7 1.2
3月 4.1 28.0 3.2 6.3 1.3 5.5 1.5 12.0 5.7 4.0 7.5
4月 1.4 16.0 13.7 -0.9 8.3 13.2 4.1 6.1 9.1
5月 -1.2 12.7 17.8 -1.3 6.6 13.3 4.5 5.2 9.0
6月 6.3 24.0 2.3 7.5 -2.4 7.3 13.9 5.3 9.5 12.6
7月 3.9 26.9 6.8 0.5 6.4 9.6 4.5 7.3 15.0
8月 5.2 14.6
４．消費者物価指数（前年比、前年同月比、％）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム

2024年 2.3 3.5 1.7 2.4 0.4 1.8 3.5 3.2 0.2 4.6 3.6
2025年 2.1 4.5 1.4 0.9 -0.1 1.4 3.3 1.7 0.0 2.0 3.3
2024年12月 1.9 2.1 1.4 1.5 1.2 1.7 1.6 2.9 0.4 5.2 2.9
2025年1月 2.2 2.7 2.0 1.2 1.3 1.7 0.8 2.9 0.5 4.1 3.6
2月 2.0 1.6 1.4 0.9 1.1 1.5 -0.1 2.1 -0.7 3.5 2.9
3月 2.1 2.3 1.4 0.9 0.8 1.4 1.0 1.8 -0.1 3.6 3.1
4月 2.1 2.0 2.0 0.9 -0.2 1.4 1.9 1.4 -0.1 3.3 3.1
5月 1.9 1.5 1.9 0.8 -0.6 1.2 1.6 1.3 -0.1 3.0 3.2
6月 2.2 1.4 1.5 0.8 -0.2 1.1 1.9 1.4 0.1 2.3 3.6
7月 2.1 1.5 1.0 0.6 -0.7 1.2 2.4 0.9 0.0 1.6 3.2

8月 1.7 1.6 1.1 0.5 -0.8 1.3 2.3 1.5 -0.4 2.0 3.2
9月 2.1 1.3 1.1 0.7 -0.7 1.5 2.7 1.7 -0.3 1.4 3.4
10月 2.4 1.5 1.2 1.2 -0.8 1.3 2.9 1.7 0.2 0.0 3.2
11月 2.4 1.2 1.2 1.2 -0.5 1.4 2.7 1.5 0.7 0.5 3.6
12月 2.3 1.3 1.5 1.2 -0.3 1.6 2.9 1.8 0.8 1.2 3.5
2026年1月 2.0 0.7 1.2 1.4 -0.7 1.6 3.5 2.0 0.2 2.7 2.5
2月 2.0 1.8 1.7 1.2 -0.9 1.4 4.8 2.4 1.3 3.2 3.4
3月 2.2 1.2 1.7 1.8 -0.1 1.7 3.5 4.1 1.0 3.4 4.7
4月 2.6 1.7 1.8 1.8 2.9 1.9 2.4 7.2 1.2 3.5 5.5
5月 3.1 2.2 2.0 1.8 2.8 2.0 3.1 6.8 1.2 3.9 5.6

6月 3.2 2.6 1.9 1.9 2.4 1.9 3.3 6.4 1.0 4.4 4.7
7月 2.8 2.5 1.7 2.2 1.9 1.8 2.9 6.2 0.5 4.5 4.4
8月 3.1 2.0 2.5 3.2 6.1 0.8 4.8 4.9
アジア諸国・地域の主要経済指標
（注1）インドの表1～10は年度、表11は暦年。

### Page 11

ASIA MONTHLY   2026 年 10 月（No.307） 
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
   10

５．失業率（％）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
2024年 2.8 3.4 3.0 2.0 1.0 3.2 4.9 3.8 5.1 6.5 2.2
2025年 2.8 3.3 3.6 2.0 0.8 3.0 4.9 4.2 5.2 6.9 2.2
2024年12月 3.8 3.3 3.0 1.7 0.8 3.1 3.1 5.1 6.4 2.2
2025年1月 3.7 3.3 2.9 0.9 3.1 4.3 5.2
2月 3.2 3.3 2.9 0.8 3.1 4.8 3.8 5.4
3月 3.1 3.4 3.2 1.8 0.9 3.1 3.9 5.2 2.2
4月 2.9 3.3 3.4 1.0 3.1 4.1 5.1 6.5
5月 2.8 3.3 3.6 0.8 3.1 3.9 5.0 6.9
6月 2.8 3.4 3.6 2.4 0.8 3.0 3.7 5.0 7.1 2.2
7月 2.4 3.4 3.8 0.7 3.0 5.3 5.2 7.2
8月 2.0 3.5 3.9 0.7 3.0 4.9 3.9 5.3 6.7
9月 2.1 3.4 4.1 1.9 0.8 3.0 3.8 5.2 6.8 2.2
10月 2.2 3.4 3.9 0.7 3.0 5.0 5.1 7
11月 2.2 3.3 3.8 0.7 2.9 4.4 5.1 6.5
12月 4.1 3.3 3.6 1.8 0.7 2.9 4.4 5.1 6.7 2.2
2026年1月 4.1 3.3 3.6 0.9 2.9 5.8 5.2 7
2月 3.4 3.3 3.5 0.9 2.9 4.7 5.1 5.3 6.6
3月 3.0 3.3 3.6 1.9 1.0 2.9 5.0 5.4 6.8 2.2
4月 2.9 3.3 3.7 0.9 3.0 4.7 5.2 6.6
5月 2.9 3.3 3.7 1.0 3.0 4.8 5.1 6.4
6月 2.8 3.3 3.7 2.4 0.9 3.0 4.9 5.0 6.6 2.2
7月 2.6 3.4 3.8 1.1 3.0 6.0 5.2 6.7
8月 2.0 4.0 1.2 5.3 6.8
（注2）インドネシアは8月、インドは年度平均のデータ。
６．輸出（通関ベース、 100万米ドル、％）
前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比
2024年 683,609 8.1 474,925 9.8 583,133 9.1 504,806 6.2 300,740 5.5
2025年 709,330 3.8 639,962 34.8 673,191 15.4 566,277 12.2 340,232 13.1
2024年12月 61,359 6.6 43,556 9.1 52,316 5.7 44,537 13.1 24,765 8.7
2025年1月 49,177 -10.1 38,703 4.4 49,985 0.5 43,696 1.2 25,466 14.4
2月 52,292 0.4 41,292 31.4 42,137 16.0 40,088 5.5 26,813 14.5
3月 58,065 2.7 49,542 18.6 58,606 19.2 43,680 2.7 29,628 18.1
4月 58,036 3.4 48,647 29.9 55,965 15.7 51,487 25.1 25,661 10.3
5月 57,261 -1.3 51,738 38.6 55,641 15.6 44,951 6.9 31,069 18.4
6月 59,834 4.3 53,326 33.7 53,235 11.3 44,739 16.3 28,700 15.7
7月 60,724 5.7 56,676 42.0 56,856 13.7 50,103 13.8 28,599 11.1
8月 58,259 1.1 58,430 33.9 55,787 14.1 44,184 4.2 27,850 6.2
9月 65,904 12.6 54,220 33.7 59,391 16.2 48,510 15.4 31,000 19.1
10月 59,512 3.5 60,886 47.5 59,397 17.4 54,096 26.4 28,915 6.0
11月 60,753 7.9 64,040 55.9 60,286 18.8 49,219 12.8 27,514 7.3
12月 69,514 13.3 62,463 43.4 65,905 26.0 51,523 15.7 29,015 17.2
2026年1月 65,844 33.9 65,758 69.9 66,769 33.6 60,550 38.6 31,573 24.0
2月 67,644 29.4 49,789 20.6 52,300 24.1 47,319 18.0 29,440 9.8
3月 87,364 50.5 80,181 61.8 79,011 34.8 64,262 47.1 35,157 18.7
4月 85,751 47.8 67,619 39.0 79,261 41.6 70,339 36.6 31,583 23.1
5月 87,553 52.9 78,476 51.7 78,030 40.2 62,095 38.1 34,333 10.5
6月 101,960 70.4 74,813 40.3 81,795 53.6 66,329 48.3 34,656 20.8
7月 99,190 63.3 75,294 32.8 85,773 50.9 69,922 39.6 34,789 21.6
8月 98,282 68.7 82,401 41.0 66,361 50.2
前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比
2024年 330,761 5.7 266,529 2.7 73,269 -0.5 3,576,961 5.9 437,705 0.1 405,896 14.4
2025年 376,685 13.9 282,505 6.0 84,480 15.3 3,770,231 5.4 444,752 1.6 474,998 17.0
2024年12月 31,092 22.3 23,600 5.1 5,673 -1.9 335,510 10.6 37,804 -1.5 35,562 13.0
2025年1月 27,539 5.4 21,402 4.0 6,574 9.7 324,262 5.8 36,339 -2.6 33,260 -3.9
2月 26,637 13.9 21,935 13.4 6,787 12.8 214,772 -3.1 36,911 -10.9 31,249 26.2
3月 31,089 13.7 23,188 2.5 6,783 9.0 313,044 12.0 42,048 0.9 38,609 14.8
4月 30,254 25.2 20,725 5.2 6,783 7.6 315,116 7.9 38,239 -3.9 37,635 20.4
5月 29,790 9.7 24,586 9.6 7,318 15.5 315,631 4.6 38,288 -1.3 39,779 17.5
6月 28,860 7.8 23,391 11.1 7,066 26.9 324,617 5.6 34,964 -1.4 39,651 16.9
7月 33,118 17.7 24,722 9.7 7,357 17.7 321,216 7.0 36,985 13.2 42,472 16.5
8月 31,087 6.2 24,938 5.7 7,128 5.5 321,281 4.2 34,740 5.6 43,483 14.8
9月 33,081 13.9 24,665 11.4 7,282 16.3 328,149 8.1 36,085 5.9 42,763 25.0
10月 35,230 18.1 24,186 -2.5 7,449 20.3 304,916 -1.3 34,105 -12.5 42,708 19.3
11月 32,508 14.3 22,478 -6.8 6,927 21.6 329,990 5.8 37,845 18.5 39,313 15.8
12月 37,494 20.6 26,290 11.4 7,026 23.9 357,238 6.5 38,205 1.1 44,078 23.9
2026年1月 36,499 32.5 22,156 3.5 7,143 8.7 356,557 10.0 36,474 0.4 43,190 29.9
2月 33,483 25.7 22,167 1.1 7,389 8.9 299,759 39.6 36,592 -0.9 33,057 5.8
3月 37,672 21.2 22,527 -2.9 8,191 20.8 320,991 2.5 38,934 -7.4 46,436 20.3
4月 46,117 52.4 25,303 22.1 7,274 7.2 359,123 14.0 43,713 14.3 45,986 22.2
5月 46,546 56.2 23,204 -5.6 7,949 8.6 376,298 19.2 45,439 18.7 46,929 18.0
6月 43,784 51.7 25,459 8.8 8,830 25.0 411,837 26.9 40,385 15.5 50,787 28.1
7月 47,424 43.2 26,217 6.0 8,148 10.8 397,833 23.9 44,240 19.6 53,095 25.0
8月 47,026 51.3 401,441 25.0 43,810 26.1 54,795 26.0
ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ
ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ

### Page 12

ASIA MONTHLY   2026 年 10 月（No.307） 
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
   11

７．輸入（通関ベース、 100万米ドル、％）
前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比
2024年 631,767 -1.7 394,350 12.1 631,619 6.4 457,490 8.3 305,523 5.9
2025年 631,895 0.0 485,110 23.0 730,043 15.6 504,151 10.2 343,965 12.6
2024年12月 54,866 3.3 37,458 30.2 56,754 -0.7 41,570 22.4 24,638 14.2
2025年1月 51,172 -6.1 28,732 -16.9 49,718 0.9 39,943 8.4 26,953 7.0
2月 48,329 0.2 34,753 47.8 46,804 12.4 34,499 3.1 24,483 3.0
3月 53,341 2.4 42,976 29.8 64,442 17.4 39,990 4.4 28,365 9.4
4月 53,233 -2.9 41,409 33.4 58,027 16.8 42,641 9.4 28,681 15.0
5月 50,345 -5.2 39,341 25.5 59,143 19.0 40,369 3.5 29,637 16.8
6月 50,826 3.5 41,317 17.4 60,742 10.5 37,800 4.6 27,409 12.4
7月 54,210 0.7 42,404 20.7 61,203 15.9 44,486 13.0 28,089 4.5
8月 51,857 -4.1 41,701 29.6 59,035 11.1 40,352 6.3 29,666 15.7
9月 56,420 8.3 41,925 25.3 65,836 13.6 43,790 15.6 29,444 16.2
10月 53,511 -1.5 39,340 14.9 64,535 18.3 47,964 22.3 32,113 15.7
11月 51,285 1.1 48,062 45.2 66,524 18.1 42,669 10.1 30,026 17.0
12月 57,368 4.6 43,152 15.2 74,035 30.4 49,649 19.4 29,099 18.1
2026年1月 57,154 11.7 46,840 63.0 68,577 37.9 49,316 23.5 34,876 29.4
2月 52,106 7.8 37,034 6.6 60,508 29.3 42,641 23.6 32,273 31.8
3月 60,752 13.9 58,909 37.1 90,393 40.3 56,390 41.0 38,497 35.7
4月 62,114 16.7 53,264 28.6 83,025 43.1 59,408 39.3 41,604 45.1
5月 60,752 20.7 60,540 53.9 83,670 41.5 58,787 45.6 40,044 35.1
6月 66,049 30.0 62,615 51.5 88,424 45.6 56,317 49.0 41,191 50.3
7月 68,538 26.4 58,102 37.0 86,396 41.2 60,012 34.9 38,400 36.7
8月 63,497 22.4 60,103 44.1 56,585 40.2
前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比 前年比
2024年 300,216 13.0 235,199 5.4 127,597 1.1 2,585,148 1.1 721,132 7.0 380,991 16.7
2025年 339,869 13.2 241,363 2.6 134,201 5.2 2,590,073 0.2 755,063 4.7 454,926 19.4
2024年12月 26,771 16.9 21,509 12.0 9,819 -1.4 230,872 1.0 58,433 2.7 34,996 19.2
2025年1月 26,707 11.5 17,861 -3.9 11,528 11.5 186,364 -16.3 59,768 11.3 30,126 -2.5
2月 23,809 13.3 18,779 1.5 9,779 2.1 183,589 1.5 51,329 -14.2 32,661 40.3
3月 25,432 3.5 18,892 4.9 11,292 17.9 211,149 -4.4 63,740 12.5 36,848 18.8
4月 29,105 29.5 20,528 20.8 10,766 -2.4 219,255 -0.3 65,369 20.0 36,821 22.7
5月 29,509 17.8 20,275 3.9 10,960 -0.9 212,966 -3.3 60,844 -1.3 38,971 13.9
6月 26,731 12.7 19,296 4.1 11,465 15.8 210,846 1.2 54,061 -3.5 36,802 20.6
7月 29,627 11.1 20,544 -6.0 11,786 5.9 223,843 4.2 64,862 9.1 40,070 18.0
8月 27,332 -1.8 19,364 -7.1 11,117 -0.3 220,275 1.6 61,960 -9.6 39,817 18.1
9月 28,221 8.4 20,467 7.9 11,954 5.2 239,426 8.0 69,081 17.6 39,909 25.1
10月 30,353 12.2 21,812 -1.3 11,647 -3.0 216,917 1.7 76,689 17.9 40,089 18.7
11月 31,018 23.6 19,773 0.0 10,889 2.4 220,133 2.5 62,970 -1.5 38,180 16.6
12月 32,026 19.6 23,771 10.5 11,019 12.2 245,310 6.3 64,390 10.2 44,632 27.5
2026年1月 31,040 16.2 21,201 18.7 11,421 -0.9 236,551 26.9 71,709 20.0 44,974 49.3
2月 29,211 22.7 20,894 11.3 11,404 16.6 210,522 14.7 63,884 24.5 34,102 4.4
3月 31,469 23.7 19,206 1.7 13,227 17.1 271,176 28.4 59,899 -6.0 47,113 27.9
4月 38,763 33.2 25,214 22.8 13,710 27.3 274,758 25.3 71,933 10.0 49,980 35.7
5月 36,452 23.5 24,814 22.4 14,052 28.2 271,267 27.4 73,399 20.6 52,141 33.8
6月 39,902 49.3 25,909 34.3 14,326 25.0 286,370 35.8 70,823 31.0 53,432 45.2
7月 41,903 41.4 26,095 27.0 14,122 19.8 285,333 27.5 76,220 17.5 56,668 41.4
8月 40,112 46.8 282,356 28.2 70,670 14.1 54,908 37.9
ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ
８．貿易収支（ 100万米ドル）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
2024年 51,842 80,576 -48,486 47,316 -4,783 30,544 31,330 -54,328 991,813 -283,427 24,906
2025年 77,435 154,852 -56,852 62,126 -3,732 36,817 41,143 -49,722 1,180,158 -310,310 20,071
2024年12月 6,493 6,098 -4,438 2,967 127 4,320 2,090 -4,146 104,638 -20,629 566
2025年1月 -1,995 9,972 267 3,753 -1,487 833 3,540 -4,955 137,898 -23,429 3,133
2月 3,964 6,540 -4,667 5,589 2,331 2,828 3,156 -2,991 31,184 -14,418 -1,412
3月 4,724 6,566 -5,835 3,691 1,263 5,657 4,296 -4,509 101,894 -21,693 1,761
4月 4,803 7,238 -2,062 8,847 -3,021 1,149 197 -3,983 95,861 -27,130 814
5月 6,916 12,397 -3,503 4,582 1,432 281 4,312 -3,642 102,666 -22,556 807
6月 9,008 12,009 -7,508 6,940 1,291 2,129 4,096 -4,398 113,772 -19,097 2,849
7月 6,514 14,272 -4,347 5,617 511 3,491 4,178 -4,428 97,373 -27,877 2,402
8月 6,403 16,729 -3,247 3,831 -1,816 3,754 5,573 -3,989 101,006 -27,220 3,666
9月 9,485 12,295 -6,445 4,719 1,556 4,860 4,198 -4,673 88,723 -32,996 2,854
10月 6,001 21,546 -5,138 6,133 -3,197 4,877 2,374 -4,198 87,998 -42,584 2,619
11月 9,468 15,978 -6,238 6,550 -2,512 1,490 2,705 -3,962 109,858 -25,125 1,133
12月 12,146 19,311 -8,129 1,874 -84 5,468 2,519 -3,993 111,928 -26,185 -554
2026年1月 8,689 18,918 -1,808 11,234 -3,303 5,459 954 -4,278 120,006 -35,235 -1,784
2月 15,538 12,755 -8,207 4,678 -2,834 4,272 1,273 -4,015 89,237 -27,292 -1,045
3月 26,611 21,273 -11,382 7,872 -3,340 6,202 3,321 -5,036 49,815 -20,964 -677
4月 23,637 14,354 -3,764 10,931 -10,021 7,354 89 -6,435 84,365 -28,220 -3,993
5月 26,800 17,936 -5,640 3,308 -5,711 10,094 -1,610 -6,103 105,031 -27,960 -5,212
6月 35,910 12,198 -6,628 10,012 -6,535 3,883 -451 -5,497 125,467 -30,438 -2,644
7月 30,652 17,191 -623 9,911 -3,611 5,521 122 -5,973 112,500 -31,980 -3,573
8月 34,785 22,298 9,777 6,914 119,085 -26,860 -113

### Page 13

ASIA MONTHLY   2026 年 10 月（No.307）
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE
12
９．経常収支（ 100万米ドル）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
2024年 99,974 114,553 53,647 98,535 11,619 5,980 -8,583 -18,565 462,283 -22,947 30,508
2025年 123,054 184,389 52,328 100,971 15,942 7,663 -1,522 -16,291 735,022 33,135
2024年11月 9,457 1,546 -1,796
12月 12,741 34,467 14,264 25,477 2,622 2,258 -1,142 -520 173,058 -11,315 8,177
2025年1月 2,678 3,844 -2,503
2月 7,225 6,523 128

3月 9,583 30,333 16,027 24,281 1,871 3,115 -68 -2,222 163,605 13,654 4,828
4月 4,511 -1,303 -1,859
5月 9,907 -285 -1,793
6月 13,969 37,201 11,933 23,477 3,194 628 -2,889 -1,929 125,125 -3,360 7,494
7月 11,945 1,149 -1,317
8月 9,848 -377 -1,112
9月 14,220 46,913 12,161 22,185 2,389 3,198 4,064 -1,367 202,470 -14,465 13,159
10月 7,568 -1,687 -1,187
11月 12,898 -1,326 -881
12月 18,703 69,942 12,215 31,042 3,436 662 -2,359 -809 243,821 -16,057 7,654
2026年1月 13,259 549 -1,928

2月 23,193 1,666 -1,322
3月 37,928 62,535 4,923 32,011 -798 3,826 -3,576 -3,217 184,310 6,492 2,716
4月 28,292 -7,790 -4,220
5月 38,607 -6,432 -3,265
6月 49,730 58,491 28,978 -3,474 2,694 -12,487 -1,483 195,100 -4,219
7月 42,078 -1,559
10．外貨準備（年末値、月末値、金を除く、100万米ドル）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
2024年 410,809 576,677 421,329 371,433 217,253 112,971 149,118 95,251 3,202,357 590,150 83,082
2025年 423,260 602,553 427,645 409,276 249,326 120,165 144,539 92,256 3,357,869 575,712 85,580

2024年12月 410,809 576,677 421,329 371,433 217,253 112,971 149,118 95,251 3,202,357 569,553 83,082
2025年1月 406,220 577,583 421,292 376,703 220,960 113,099 149,017 91,519 3,209,036 559,715
2月 404,415 577,584 416,174 379,323 223,198 115,012 147,289 95,345 3,227,224 565,426
3月 404,865 578,022 412,323 382,606 221,747 113,683 149,421 93,907 3,240,665 590,150 82,553
4月 399,878 582,832 409,957 389,229 231,987 114,896 144,116 91,969 3,281,662 604,310
5月 399,801 592,948 430,841 401,730 232,741 115,796 144,099 91,451 3,285,255 607,891

6月 405,408 598,432 431,779 404,963 237,487 116,532 144,247 92,197 3,317,422 614,810 83,067
7月 406,540 597,869 425,174 397,336 237,067 117,201 143,640 91,635 3,292,235 605,972
8月 411,491 597,430 421,405 391,267 241,345 118,602 141,889 92,575 3,322,154 608,042
9月 417,221 602,943 418,837 393,135 244,170 118,834 138,797 92,675 3,338,658 602,624 84,173
10月 424,024 600,197 425,786 392,198 241,830 118,997 139,052 93,359 3,343,343 588,007
11月 425,864 599,791 429,071 400,020 242,771 119,358 138,657 93,228 3,346,372 581,189

12月 423,260 602,553 427,645 409,276 249,326 120,165 144,539 92,256 3,357,869 576,472 85,580
2026年1月 421,111 604,457 435,296 416,969 252,905 120,990 140,118 91,947 3,399,078 584,644
2月 422,830 605,487 438,903 416,058 254,080 122,192 137,403 90,207 3,427,807 596,864
3月 418,862 596,886 430,477 419,880 245,250 120,201 135,374 86,460 3,342,123 575,712 85,366
4月 423,081 602,488 441,816 427,257 252,082 123,329 133,329 84,549 3,410,547 575,477
5月 422,199 605,074 445,553 430,140 253,228 124,221 132,239 84,507 3,442,238 570,524

6月 422,564 597,152 445,655 426,247 248,971 126,784 134,308 87,551 3,416,262 566,004 88,261
7月 423,153 594,271 447,598 427,867 244,957 126,284 133,964 85,827 3,418,776 588,123
8月 437,486 601,904 442,900 432,969 249,585 126,200 134,062 85,704 3,438,325
（注3）ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙは金を含む。
11．政策金利（年末値、月末値、％）
韓国 台湾 香港 ｼﾝｶﾞﾎﾟｰﾙ タイ ﾏﾚｰｼｱ ｲﾝﾄﾞﾈｼｱ ﾌｨﾘﾋﾟﾝ 中国 インド ベトナム
2024年 3.00 2.00 4.75 2.25 3.00 6.00 5.75 3.10 6.50 4.50
2025年 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.25 2.75 4.75 4.50 3.00 5.25 4.50

2024年12月 3.00 2.00 4.75 2.25 3.00 6.00 5.75 3.10 6.50 4.50
2025年1月 3.00 2.00 4.75 2.25 3.00 5.75 5.75 3.10 6.50 4.50
2月 2.75 2.00 4.75 2.00 3.00 5.75 5.75 3.10 6.25 4.50
3月 2.75 2.00 4.75 2.00 3.00 5.75 5.75 3.10 6.25 4.50
4月 2.75 2.00 4.75 1.75 3.00 5.75 5.50 3.10 6.00 4.50
5月 2.50 2.00 4.75 1.75 3.00 5.50 5.50 3.00 6.00 4.50
6月 2.50 2.00 4.75 1.75 3.00 5.50 5.25 3.00 5.50 4.50
7月 2.50 2.00 4.75 1.75 2.75 5.25 5.25 3.00 5.50 4.50
8月 2.50 2.00 4.75 1.50 2.75 5.00 5.00 3.00 5.50 4.50

9月 2.50 2.00 4.50 1.50 2.75 4.75 5.00 3.00 5.50 4.50
10月 2.50 2.00 4.25 1.50 2.75 4.75 4.75 3.00 5.50 4.50
11月 2.50 2.00 4.25 1.50 2.75 4.75 4.75 3.00 5.50 4.50
12月 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.25 2.75 4.75 4.50 3.00 5.25 4.50
2026年1月 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.25 2.75 4.75 4.50 3.00 5.25 4.50
2月 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.00 2.75 4.75 4.25 3.00 5.25 4.50
3月 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.00 2.75 4.75 4.25 3.00 5.25 4.50
4月 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.00 2.75 4.75 4.50 3.00 5.25 4.50
5月 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.00 2.75 5.25 4.50 3.00 5.25 4.50

6月 2.50 2.00 4.00 1.00 2.75 5.75 4.75 3.00 5.25 4.50
7月 2.75 2.00 4.00 1.00 2.75 5.75 4.75 3.00 5.25 4.50
8月 3.00 2.00 4.00 1.00 2.75 5.75 5.00 3.00 5.25 4.50

### Page 14

ASIA MONTHLY   2026 年 10 月（No.307） 
JAPAN RESEARCH INSTITUTE 
   13

資料出所一覧
国名
Bank of Korea Monthly Statistical Bulletin 政策金利：ベースレート
IMF IFS
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
CEICデータベース
行政院 台湾経済論衡 政策金利：公定歩合
中華民国統計月報
台湾中央銀行 金融統計月報
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
CEICデータベース
香港特別行政区政府統計処 香港統計月刊 政策金利：基準貸出金利
香港対外貿易
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
CEICデータベース
Departments of Statistics Monthly Digest of Statistics 政策金利：なし
IMF IFS
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
CEICデータベース
Bank of Thailand Monthly Bulletin 政策金利：翌日物レポレート
IMF IFS
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
National Statistical Office CEICデータベース
Bank Negara Malaysia Monthly Statistical Bulletin 政策金利：オーバーナイト政策金利
IMF IFS
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
CEICデータベース
Biro Pusat Statistik Indicatoe Ekonomi 政策金利： BIレート
Bank Indonesia Laporan Mingguan
IMF IFS
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
ISI　Emerging Market CEICデータベース
National Statistical Office 各種月次統計 政策金利：翌日物借入金利
IMF IFS
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
CEICデータベース
中国国家統計局 中国統計年鑑 政策金利：最優遇貸出金利
中華人民共和国海関総署 中国海関統計
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
CEICデータベース
Reserve Bank of India RBI Bulletin 政策金利：レポレート
CMIE Monthly Rev iew
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
IMF CEICデータベース
統計総局 各種月次統計 政策金利：リファイナンスレート
国家銀行 各種月次統計
IMF IFS
国際連合 World Population Prospects 2024
ISI　Emerging Market CEICデータベース
※主要経済指標は、2026年9月18日時点で入手したデータに基づいて作成。
香港
発行機関 資料名 備考
韓国
台湾
インド
ベトナム
シンガポール
タイ
マレーシア
インドネシア
フィリピン
中国

### Page 15

情報の内容は、経済情勢等の変化により変更されることがあります。本資料の情報に起因し
てご閲覧者様及び第三者に損害が発生したとしても執筆者、執筆にあたっての取材先及び弊
社は一切責任を負わないものとします。

---
## Document 421: マーケット見通し『厳選指標』(2026年10月号)

Source PDF: all report pdf/マーケット見通し『厳選指標』(2026年10月号).pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 1
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

・   台湾は言わずと知れた、 半導体の生産集積地であり、
今や世界で最も注目すべき経済主体の一つです。 Ａ Ｉ 関
連投資の動向を把握する上で極めて重要な経済指標
があります。
・   それは毎月20日頃に発表される台湾企業の輸出受注
です。 輸出受注全体の ８ 割を占めるのは電子部品や情
報技術製品で、 そこに Ａ Ｉ を動かすために必要な半導体
関連製品が含まれます。 26年 ７ 月は前年比＋61.9％と
驚異的な伸び率でした。 製品価格が急騰し、 受注額を押
し上げた形です。
・   この指標は世界の代表的な半導体銘柄で構成される Ｓ
Ｏ Ｘ 指数と連動性があります。 25年春頃は トランプ関税
等の影響によってかい離が生じましたが、 それ以外の局
面で波形は一致してきました。 半導体銘柄を巡っては、
バブルも指摘されていますが、 この指標をみる限り、 裏
付けを伴った株価上昇と言えるのではないでし ょ うか。
このページでは筆者が注目する指標を四半期に一度解説します。 常に変化する金融市場参加者の関心を踏まえ、 その

時々の重要指標を選定します。
・   日本では 「賃金上昇率は高いほど良い」 といった風潮も
ありますが、 「物価の安定」 を考えた場合、 高すぎる賃金
上昇率は困りものです。 米国では2022年頃に賃金イ
ンフレに悩まされました。 賃金と物価は表裏一体の関
係にありますから、 賃金上昇率が高まりすぎると、 イン
フレを招いてしまいます。
・   労働者個々人で考えた場合、 10％の賃上げは嬉しいの
ですが、 それがマクロ的な現象になってしまえば、 イン
フレは ２ ％で済むはずがありません。 増加した労働コス
トが価格に転嫁されるからです。
・   その点、 最近の米国では賃金上昇率が鈍化しており、 安
心感があります。 雇用統計で示される平均時給は前年
比で ３ ％程度の軌道にあり、 方向感は下向きです。
・   FRBは関税と原油高に由来するインフレ圧力を警戒し
ていますが、 賃金上昇率の鈍化に鑑みると、 インフレの
基調は緩やかに鈍化すると筆者考えています。
資料1 台湾  輸出受注 ・ Ｓ Ｏ Ｘ指数

（出所） 台湾経済部,LSEGにより作成
資料2 米国　平均時給
（出所） ） 米雇用統計より作成
厳選指標 （9月10日時点）
経済調査部　主席エコノミス ト　藤代 宏一（ふじしろ こういち）
10第一ライフ研レポー ト 2026.10
マーケット見通し
マー ケット見 通し

---
## Document 459: 伊朗提“七天方案”但划核红线：霍尔木兹可谈、浓缩铀不让步

Source PDF: all report pdf/伊朗提“七天方案”但划核红线：霍尔木兹可谈、浓缩铀不让步.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

伊朗外⻓称，伊⽅已提交具体⽅案，若美国满⾜相关条件，最快七天内恢复霍尔⽊兹海峡
正常通航，现在选择权在美⽅。据报道，伊朗⾼官称，即使美国接受重开海峡的⽅案，伊
朗也不会在核计划上表现任何灵活性，不会放弃包括浓缩铀在内的权利，海峡将继续关闭
到美国满⾜伊⽅的所有条件为⽌。
摘要：
美伊谈判释放缓和信号之际，伊朗同时划出核问题 “ 红线 ” 。
当地时间 9 ⽉ 25 ⽇，伊朗外⻓阿拉格⻬表⽰，伊朗已向美国提出⼀份具体的 “ 七天⽅案 ” ，只要美
⽅满⾜相关条件，霍尔⽊兹海峡最快可在 7 天内恢复正常通航；但⼀名伊朗⾼级官员随后向路透
社表⽰，即使美国接受重开霍尔⽊兹海峡的⽅案，伊朗也不会在核计划上作出让步。
这意味着，霍尔⽊兹海峡可以成为美伊谈判的交换筹码，但伊朗并未将核计划纳⼊同等程度的
让步空间。伊朗⽅⾯称，只有在美国满⾜伊⽅全部条件后，海峡才会重新开放。
“ 七天⽅案 ” 摆上桌：霍尔⽊兹最快⼀周重开
阿拉格⻬周五在联合国表⽰，伊朗已经向美国提交⼀份 “ 具体 ” 的七天⽅案，若必要条件得到满

⾜，霍尔⽊兹海峡可以在第七天重新开放，恢复正常海上通航。
他说， “ 现在选择权在美国 ” ，⽽美⽅需要采取的⾏动并⾮新要求，⽽是此前美伊 6 ⽉达成的谅解
备忘录（ MOU ）中已经涉及的内容。
按照此前披露的信息，伊朗提出的条件包括停⽌各条战线的敌对⾏动、美国解除对伊朗港⼝的
海上封锁、释放伊朗被冻结资产以及豁免对伊朗⽯油出⼝的制裁等。相关条件满⾜后，霍尔⽊
兹海峡将在七天内恢复通航。
浓缩铀是关键分歧  海峡关闭到美接受所有条件为⽌
就在阿拉格⻬公布七天⽅案后，⼀名伊朗⾼级官员向路透社表⽰，即使美国接受重开霍尔⽊兹
海峡的⽅案，伊朗也不会在核计划上表现出任何灵活性。
这名不愿透露姓名的官员称，伊朗不会放弃包括铀浓缩在内的 “ 权利 ” ，也不会同意将⾼浓缩铀运
出境外 —— 这恰恰是美国⽅⾯的重要要求之⼀。
该官员还表⽰，霍尔⽊兹海峡将继续关闭，直到美国满⾜伊朗提出的 “ 所有条件 ” 为⽌。
路透社指出，美国、以⾊列及其他西⽅国家⻓期指责伊朗寻求核武器，并特别关注伊朗此前将
铀浓缩⾄ 60% 的举动；伊朗则⼀直否认寻求核武器。

因此，美伊当前谈判的⽭盾变得更加清晰：伊朗愿意把霍尔⽊兹海峡重新开放作为谈判筹码，
但不愿以核计划作出对等让步。
谈判仍有空间，但核⼼分歧尚未解决
伊朗总统佩泽希⻬扬周四曾表⽰，希望在 11 ⽉美国中期选举前与美国达成结束敌对⾏动的协
议。与此同时，伊朗⽅⾯表⽰，只有在美国先满⾜伊⽅条件后，才准备就核计划展开更详细的
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
241 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
4 条评论
谈判。
这也意味着， “ 七天⽅案 ” 并不意味着美伊已经达成协议。它更像是伊朗提出的⼀套先解决封锁、
停⽕和霍尔⽊兹通航，再进⼊更深⼊核问题谈判的路线图。
对油市⽽⾔，如果双⽅最终接受这⼀框架，霍尔⽊兹重新开放将显著降低此前因供应中断计⼊
油价的地缘⻛险溢价；但对谈判本⾝⽽⾔，核问题仍是最难绕开的核⼼分歧。
阿拉格⻬已经把选择权交给美国，⽽伊朗⾼级官员则明确划出核问题红线。霍尔⽊兹能否在七
天内重开，最终仍取决于美国是否接受这套 “ 先谈海峡、后谈核问题 ” 的交易框架。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
防御型投资者
4 ⼩时前 中国上海
0  回复
继续关闭，直到⼀⽂不值。
⻜芦听花
5 ⼩时前 中国
1  回复
绑架全世界的神棍

灯
6 ⼩时前 中国湖北省
0  回复
伊朗始终想发展核武器，最终会把国家经济拖向崩溃 .
路⼈
6 ⼩时前 中国⼴西
看看谁能坚持到最后

### Page 3

0  回复

---
## Document 496: 创业板、科创50均跌超4%，算力硬件下挫，“易中天”集体大跌，恒指震荡收涨0.51%，权重科网股活跃

Source PDF: all report pdf/创业板、科创50均跌超4%，算力硬件下挫，“易中天”集体大跌，恒指震荡收涨0.51%，权重科网股活跃.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

盘⾯上，个股呈现普跌态势，沪深京三市超 4500 股飘绿，今⽇成交 1.72 万亿。沪深两市成
交额 1.7 万亿，较上⼀个交易⽇放量近 500 亿。板块⽅⾯，通信设备⼤幅下挫， CPO 、光通
信概念股集体⼤跌；电⼦元器件、电脑硬件、半导体、有⾊⾦属、⼯业机械、教育等跌幅
居前；新能源汽⻋、养殖、⽹络安全股⾛强，⽯油、港⼝、电⼒股抗跌。
摘要：
A 股科技成⻓与⾼位题材集体退潮，算⼒硬件股全线下挫， CPO 、 PCB 等概念股⼤跌，因国庆⻓
假前市场流动性退潮，叠加⾼位科技股估值修复和，资⾦避险情绪升温。
9 ⽉ 28 ⽇是国庆⻓假前最后⼀个交易周的⾸个交易⽇， A 股三⼤股指全天低开低⾛、午后⼀度加
速下探，沪指盘中跌逾 2% 考验 3800 点⽀撑，创业板指⼀度跌近 5% 创下今年 3 ⽉以来新低。深证
成指⼀度跌近 4% ，刷新 2025 年 11 ⽉以来新低。科创 50 指数亦跌超 4% 。算⼒硬件⼤幅下挫，光
通信、光模块、电路板、覆铜板、光电路交换机、玻璃纤维等全线杀跌，芯⽚半导体、有⾊⾦

属等板块亦陷⼊调整，房地产、电⼒、银⾏、煤炭、汽⻋等板块活跃。
港股⾛势，恒指盘初⼀度涨超 1% ，恒科指⾼开低⾛，午后⼀度翻红，尾盘⼩幅收跌，权重科⽹
股多数上涨，芯⽚半导体、光模块等概念股同样迎来⼤幅调整，⻓⻜光纤重挫 16% ，中际旭
创、剑桥科技等跌幅居前。 AI ⼤模型双雄承压， MINIMAX 跌超 9% 。债市⽅⾯，国债期货全线下
跌。商品⽅⾯，国内商品期货普遍下跌。
A 股：截⾄收盘，沪指跌 1.67% ，深成指跌 3.44% ，创业板指跌 4.353% 。
盘⾯上，个股呈现普跌态势，沪深京三市超 4500 股飘绿，今⽇成交 1.72 万亿。沪深两市成交额
1.7 万亿，较上⼀个交易⽇放量近 500 亿。板块⽅⾯，通信设备⼤幅下挫， CPO 、光通信概念股
集体⼤跌；电⼦元器件、电脑硬件、半导体、有⾊⾦属、⼯业机械、教育等跌幅居前；新能源汽
⻋、养殖、⽹络安全股⾛强，⽯油、港⼝、电⼒股抗跌。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

港股：截⾄收盘，恒⽣指数收盘涨 0.54% ，恒⽣科技指数跌 0.37% 。
盘⾯上，盘⾯上，科⽹股涨多跌少，⽹易涨超 4% ，哔哩哔哩、快⼿涨超 2% ，联想跌超 4% ；⽯
油股⾛强，中⽯油涨超 3% ；内房股涨幅居前，中国⾦茂涨超 6% ；光通信板块⼤跌，⻓⻜光纤光
缆跌超 16% 。
华尔街⻅闻⽂章写道，⻓⻜光纤⾃ 6 ⽉⾼点以来累计回调幅度已达 37% 。消息⾯上，光纤⻰头亨
通光电披露定增预案，拟募资不超过 66.36 亿元，其中光纤预制棒及特种光纤产能扩张为核⼼投
向，引发市场对⾏业供给过剩的新⼀轮担忧。
不过，瑞银在最新研报中将⻓⻜光纤 H 股 2026-28 年净利润预测上调 116%-158% ，⽬标价从 290
港元上调⾄ 330 港元，预⽰较当前股价有约 73% 的上⾏空间。
瑞银分析师为 David Chow 及 Sara Wang 指出，⻓⻜ H 股当前估值仅 8-9 倍 2027 年预期市盈率，远
低于中国及全球同业的 12-36 倍，投资者对光纤⾏业产能过剩的担忧已过度反映在股价中，⽽⻓

⻜作为全球 AI 供应链核⼼玩家的战略价值被严重低估。
债市：国债期货全线下跌，截⾄收盘， 30 年期主⼒合约跌 0.20% ， 10 年期主⼒合约跌 0.05% ， 5
年期主⼒合约跌 0.04% ， 2 年期主⼒合约跌 0.02% 。

### Page 3

算⼒硬件股重挫，光通信板块批量跌停
光通信板块⼤⾯积跌停，烽⽕通信、亨通光电、通⿍互联、中天科技、⻓⻜光纤、光迅科技跌
停、永⿍股份均报跌停，中际旭创、东⼭精密⼤跌 9% ，天孚通信跌超 8% 。
商品：国内商品期货普跌，截⾄收盘，新能源材料跌幅居前，碳酸锂跌 5.69% ；贵⾦属全部下
跌，⽩银跌 5.08% ；农副产品多数下跌，⽣猪跌 4.01% ；⾮⾦属建材全部下跌，玻璃跌 2.83% ；
⿊⾊系多数下跌，焦煤跌 2.44% ；油脂油料多数下跌，⾖⼆跌 2.07% ；基本⾦属全部下跌，铝跌
1.20% ；航运期货涨幅居前，集运指数 ( 欧线 ) 涨 6.92% ；能源品全部上涨，燃油涨 3.78% ；化⼯
品多数上涨，聚丙烯涨 1.20% 。

### Page 4

半导体板块同步下挫，寒武纪、兆易创新跌 6.5% ，德明利跌 5.87% ，⻓鑫科技跌超 4% ；半导体
设备⼤跌，拓荆科技跌超 6% 。

### Page 5

玻璃纤维、 PCB 板块⼤跌，铜冠铜箔、世名科技跌超 10% ，同宇新材跌近 9% ，中国巨⽯、⼭东
玻纤⼤跌超 8% ，中材科技跌近 8% 。

### Page 6

MLCC 概念持续⾛低，⻰头股⻛华⾼科午后跌停，最新报 50.42 元 / 股，市值 579 亿元。

### Page 7

此外，光纤⽅向也⼤幅杀跌， 3200 亿市值的⻓⻜光纤，市值超千亿的亨通光电、中天科技批量
跌停，华脉科技、⻓江通信、烽⽕通信等此前跌停。

### Page 8

9 ⽉ 24 ⽇晚间，光纤⻰头亨通光电披露定增预案，拟发⾏不超过 7.40 亿股，募集资⾦总额不超过
66.36 亿元，投向光通信等 9 个项⽬。其中， " 新⼀代光纤研发及⽣产项⽬ " 拟投⼊ 7.58 亿元， " 内
蒙古光学⾼端光学新材料建设项⽬ " 拟投⼊ 8.62 亿元，两者合计 16.2 亿元，构成光纤预制棒及特
种光纤产能扩张的核⼼。这也引发了市场对公司现⾦流状况以及加剧光纤未来产能过剩的质
疑，直接砸崩了板块情绪。市场普遍担⼼， 2027 年新增产能落地后，光纤价格将掉头向下，企
业盈利触顶回落。
国盛证券 9 ⽉ 20 ⽇发布通信⾏业周报，明确给出 “Q4 买点将近 ” 的判断：美联储加息落地，宏观压
制因素阶段性解除，光通信产业⾃⾝的⾼景⽓逻辑将重新占据定价主导，整体市场情绪向好，
叠加 Q3 ⼤光业绩预计继续放量，⼤光买点逐渐到来。
分析认为，梳理市场下跌的成因，资⾦⾯、消息⾯、结构⾯三重压⼒共振：其⼀，节前出⾦
—— 国庆 7 天⻓假，外盘、美债、地缘均有变数，融资盘和短线资⾦提前卖出留现⾦；其⼆，中

美第⼋轮磋商成果会前已被充分炒作，真正落地反⽽成为获利盘出货理由，进⼊ " 预期收敛 " 阶
段；其三，⾼位科技多杀多 —— 前期涨幅巨⼤的光通信、 PCB 、玻纤、服务器、电⼦布等集体
暴跌，情绪与筹码双重松动。
外部扰动同样不可忽视。上周五美国⻓端国债收益率再度上⾏，全球⽆⻛险利率中枢抬升，叠
加美联储 9 ⽉加息 " 靴⼦ " 落地后市场对⾼利率持续时间的担忧升温，亚太主要股市集体承压，韩
国 KOSPI ⼤跌 2.54% 。
汽⻋整⻋ —— 华为尊界与出海数据双击
汽⻋整⻋板块逆势⾛⾼，是今⽇资⾦抱团最坚决的⽅向，也是全市场涨停家数最多的板块。
⻰头江淮汽⻋收 4 天 3 板，总市值约 568.5 亿元；众泰汽⻋涨停；东⻛股份、北汽蓝⾕、安凯客
⻋、海⻢汽⻋等涨幅居前。

### Page 9

逻辑链⼀：华为 × 江淮尊界，豪华⻋代⼯预期升温。消息⾯上，鸿蒙智⾏发布会于 9 ⽉ 28 ⽇下午
举办。此前有市场传闻称， Stellantis 、华为、江淮汽⻋三⽅合作，玛莎拉蒂电动⻋型或将使⽤
鸿蒙智⾏平台，市场预期江淮汽⻋有望承接豪华品牌电动⻋代⼯、打开海外⾼端代⼯市场空
间。
华为常务董事余承东⽇前透露，华为与江淮合作的尊界 SUV 新⻋有望于 2027 年年初上市，并强
调 " ⾮常⾼端、价格⾮常有诚意、远超⼤家期望 " 。对于股价连续涨停，江淮汽⻋回应称 " 股价波
动是市场化⾏为，公司⽣产经营⼀切正常，公司与华为⼀直有合作 " 。
逻辑链⼆：出⼝数据硬核背书。中汽协数据显⽰， 2026 年 1—8 ⽉我国汽⻋出⼝ 715.3 万辆、同⽐
增 66.7% ，已超过 2025 年全年的 709.8 万辆；其中 8 ⽉出⼝ 101 万辆， 1—8 ⽉新能源汽⻋出⼝
343.5 万辆。
⼯信部装备⼯业⼀司相关负责⼈在 2026 世界智能⽹联汽⻋⼤会新闻发布会上表⽰，《智能⽹联新
能源汽⻋产业发展 " ⼗五五 " 规划》提出构建全球产业链供应链、提升海外发展服务能⼒，⽬前国

内汽⻋已销往全球 200 多个国家和地区，企业已在境外 80 多个国家和地区投资整⻋和零部件制
造。
逻辑链三：⻋市进⼊全年最关键冲量期。 9 ⽉以来超 50 款新⻋密集上市，覆盖 6 万元的代步⼩⻋
到 50 万元的旗舰⻋型，叠加 " ⾦九银⼗ " 传统旺季与出海逻辑，为板块提供景⽓⽀撑。不过也需注
意，中汽协⼝径下 1—8 ⽉国内销量 2031.5 万辆、同⽐降 3.8% ，内需与出海呈现 " ⼀降⼀升 " 的分
化，机构普遍认为出⼝弹性是当下整⻋板块的核⼼定价逻辑。
贵⾦属板块⼤跌
贵⾦属板块跌幅居前，中⾦⻩⾦跌停，四川⻩⾦、招⾦⻩⾦、西部⻩⾦、湖南⻩⾦等跌幅居
前。

### Page 10

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
606 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
压制因素有⼆：⼀是⼭东⻩⾦此前公告将 2026 年⽣产经营计划由 " ⻩⾦产量不低于 49 吨 " 调整
为 "36 吨 —38 吨 " ，预计全年归⺟净利润同⽐下降；⼆是外围美联储官员密集释放鹰派信号，市场
对 10 ⽉加息概率定价升⾄约 64% ， 10 年期美债收益率创 2007 年以来新⾼，压制⾦价及⻩⾦股估
值。
今天国际贵⾦属价格跳⽔，伦敦⾦跌破 4200 美元 / 盎司，跌幅超 2% 。伦敦银⼀度失守 62 美元 / 盎
司，为 8 ⽉ 7 ⽇以来⾸次，现跌 3.50% 。
消息⾯上，据央视新闻，当地时间 9 ⽉ 27 ⽇，美国总统特朗普接受采访时表⽰，预计本周将与伊
朗继续举⾏谈判。此前⼀天，特朗普拒绝了伊朗提出的结束战争⽅案。
华泰期货认为，短期贵⾦属价格受制于外围宏观利空因素。周内公布的超预期美国 PMI 数据推升

了年内继续加息的市场预期，从⽽对贵⾦属形成短期压制。此外，美国财政部⻓债回购规模再
次不及预期且位于披露区间底部，美债收益率持续攀升。
国⾦证券认为，短期⾦价仍将受美联储政策预期扰动维持震荡，但中期不必过度悲观，板块后
续实际经营表现有望优于当前市场⼀致预期。
限免

### Page 11

图⽚
4 条评论
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
⼩⻜侠
4 ⼩时前 中国
2  回复
节⽇快乐
MobileUser5038
4 ⼩时前 中国⼴东省
2  回复
⽜市全⾯结束了，⽴刻清仓持币过节
乐⻉宁
5 ⼩时前 中国浙江省
1  回复
市场是诚实的  没看到实质的利好就等于是利空
⽼ K
5 ⼩时前 中国江苏省
0  回复
创业板 -4 了，⿇利点快改标题

---
## Document 500: 動見觀瞻：半導體CAPEX再上調，台、美獲利動能強

Source PDF: all report pdf/動見觀瞻：半導體CAPEX再上調，台、美獲利動能強.pdf
Report source: Fubon
Date: 2026-09-11
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026

02-2771-6699 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號

半導體 CAPEX 再上調，台、美獲利動能強

半導體產業是近期股市最明亮的星星 ， 波動率也相對大 。 但市場仍維持高度正向
展望，預期 EPS 年增率直至 2028 年都維持高雙位數，建議投資人持續買入，
共同享受科技發展帶來的「AI 紅利」。 
出刊日：2026/09/11 
272 期

### Page 2

2026

02-2771-6699 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號 
動見觀瞻

本期內容： 
1. 高盛再度上調半
導體 CAPEX 
2. 半導體: 夜空中最
亮的螢火蟲 
3. 與 AI 互利共榮，
台股大有可為

重點摘要 
■ 高盛研究顯示 ，2026 年全球半導體資
本支出由 1,410 億調升至 1,500 億美
元，2027 年及 2028 年更分別上修至
2,180 億及 2,810 億美元，反映 AI 基
礎建設需求急增。

■ 過去半導體業對資本支出較保守 ， 現因
AI 需求強勁且訂單能見度高，產能適
度提升，台積電等龍頭積極擴廠並保
持 高 產 能利 用 率 。費 城半 導 體 指數
2026 年 EPS 年增率達 143%， 持續領
先其他主要指數 ，2027 年仍有 45%增
長 ， 直到2028 年才因基期高而放緩 。

■ 台灣半導體及電子零組件業 2026 年
EPS 預期成長分別達 100%及 120%，
帶動台股上漲 62.1%，2027 及 2028
年仍保持高雙位數成長，科技產業獲
利動能強勁。

費城半導體指數已自高檔回吐 40%漲幅

資料來源：Bloomberg/北富銀整理, 2026/9/2

半導體 CAPEX 再上調，台、美獲利動能強

### Page 3

2026

02-2771-6699 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號

▋ 高盛再度上調半導體 CAPEX 
高盛最新研究報告再度 上修全球半導體產
業 CAPEX 預測值，將 2026 年全球半導體
設備相關的資本支出由 $1,410 億上調至
$1,500 億美金(年增率由 28%上揚至 36%)，
2027、2028 年更進一步上調至$2,180 億
美金 ( 年率 45%) 及$2,810 億美金 ( 年增
29%)。

圖一: 高盛上調全球半導體 CAPEX 預測值

資料來源：Goldman Sachs, 2026/8/24

過去 ， 半導體產業對於資本支出相對謹慎 ，
因產業風險常常與 「景氣循環」及「產能過
剩」 高度連結，尤其是記憶體產業，一旦全
數企業同時擴產 ， 往往會導致未來價格崩跌 、
毛利率急速下滑 ， 因此管理層往往有「寧可
供不應求 ， 也不要供過於求」 的思維 。然而 ，
隨 AI 基礎建設需求大爆炸，半導體產業的
資本支出規模出現爆炸性增長 ， 雖比過去積
極，但也並非 「無限制擴產」 ，而是在確定
的訂單能見度及產品價格能維持高檔的前
提下適度提升產能。

舉例來說，台積電持續在全球建置新工廠
(美國亞利桑那、日本熊本、德國 德勒斯登
等)，雖然並非全部都是先進製程(5 奈米以
下)， 但在工廠尚未完工啟用之前 ， 多數產能
往往已被大型客戶鎖定 。 因此 ， 對台積電而
言 ， 即便提高資本支出及廣設工廠 ， 仍能維
持高檔的產能利用率且滿足市場對於各規
格晶片的強勁需求，形成雙贏局面。

▋ 半導體: 夜空中最亮的螢火蟲 
如同某首現代詩的描述一般 ， 「半導體以為
躲起來 ， 股民就找不到了嗎? 沒有用的 ， 你
就像漆黑夜空中的螢火蟲一樣 ， 獲利成長是
那樣的強勁、那樣的出眾」 。彭博最新數據
顯示， 費城半導體指數不僅2026 年 EPS 年
增率(143%)遙遙領先其餘主要指數，即便
到 2027 年仍預期有 45%並持續領先，直
到 2028 年才因高基期而 「放緩」 至22%，
或被羅素 2000 指數(29%)超越。

圖二: 2027 年費半盈餘成長領先其他指數

資料來源：Bloomberg/北富銀整理, 2026/8/28

將標普 500 指數的 11 大產業指數及其次
產業指數全面攤開檢視， 2026 ~2028 年
EPS 年增率最強的產業都是資訊科技指數 ，
其中半導體產業指數更是大幅領先硬體設
備與軟體服務指數 。 再次證明 ， 半導體就是
目前美國股市中最閃亮的星。

### Page 4

2026

02-2771-6699 
 www.fubon.com 
台北市大安區仁愛路四段 169 號

圖三: 科技/通訊以半導體獲利成長最強勁

資料來源：Bloomberg/北富銀整理, 2026/8/28

▋ 與 AI 互利共榮，台股大有可為 
將視野轉向亞洲，目前主要受惠 AI 基礎建
設需求的國家有三個，分別為日本 (半導體
設備)、 韓國(記憶體)及台灣(晶圓代工 、 封測 、
電子零組件)。 其中 ， 台灣上市公司每股盈餘
(EPS)預期在 2026 年成長 79%，而佔台股
市值三分之二的半導體業及電子零組件業
2026 年 EPS 年增率更上看 100%、120%，
帶動台股上漲 62.1%(截至 9/1 收盤)。

圖四: 台股 EPS 成長預期維持高雙位數

資料來源：Bloomberg/北富銀整理, 2026/8/28

展望未來，即便 EPS 成長預期受到高基期
因素影響 ，2027、2028 年仍預期繳出 30%
及 22%的高雙位數成長。而以產業指數分
析 ， 市值前五大產業中 ， 僅有金融保險業預
期放緩至低單位數成長 ， 其餘科技相關產業
仍將維持 20%以上的高速成長 ， 顯示AI 硬
體需求持續強勁。

▋ 結論 
市場持續上調半導體業 CAPEX 預期，顯示
在強勁的 AI 基礎建設需求下，過去相對保
守的半導體產業也在訂單能見度高且市場
極度供不應求下 ， 開始投入更多的資本支出
並增加產能 。 然而 ， 即便將這些資本支出提
升的產能計入 ， 目前高階製程及產品仍處供
不應求 ， 使整體半導體產業獲利成長預期持
續維持高檔 ， 且至2028 年都將領先全球多
數產業或指數。

半導體產業不管在美國還是亞洲 ， 都是近期
股市中最明亮的星星 ， 股市焦點都聚焦於此 ，
波動率也相對高 ， 投資人應謹慎布局並控制
部位風險 。 長期投資角度來看 ， 目前市場對
半導體產業仍維持高度正向展望 ， 且EPS 年
增率直至 2028 年都預期維持高雙位數 ， 因
此建議投資人應持續買入，共同享受 AI 時
代下科技發展帶來的「AI 紅利」。

### Page 5

2026

---
## Document 513: 只有少数股在涨！高盛警告：美股广度创2000年互联网泡沫来最差，债波动率罕见背离

Source PDF: all report pdf/只有少数股在涨！高盛警告：美股广度创2000年互联网泡沫来最差，债波动率罕见背离.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⾼盛合伙⼈ Flood 认为， AI ⻰头撑起指数⻔⾯，中位数股票已较⾼点跌 16% 。更罕⻅的是，
⾼盛衍⽣品交易主管 Garrett 警告，债券波动率 MOVE 指数处于百分位极端⾼位， VIX 却仍
低迷。 BTIG 策略师 Jonathan Krinsky 指出，对冲基⾦总杠杆升、净杠杆降， “ 加敞⼝不加
⽅向 ” 尽显⽭盾，警告： “ 某些东西必须让步。 ”
摘要：
表⾯平静之下，美股正在经历⼀场结构性撕裂。
⾼盛衍⽣品交易主管 Brian Garrett 发出警告：美国股票市场 " 拒绝为任何恐慌定价 " 。⾼盛恐慌指
数（ Panic Index ）上周五收于 1 以下， VIX 维持在低⼗⼏的⽔平，但与此同时，债券波动率指标
MOVE 指数却处于约 100 百分位的极端⾼位 —— 两者之间的背离，正在向市场发出罕⻅的结构性
预警信号。
更令⼈警惕的是美股内部的⼴度崩塌。标普 500 指数成分股中，站上 200 ⽇均线的⽐例已不⾜
50% ； 52 周新低股票数量连续九个交易⽇多于新⾼股票数量 —— 这两项指标同时触发，是⾃

2000 年互联⽹泡沫顶部以来⾸次出现。 与此同时，标普 500 指数中位数股票较 52 周⾼点已下跌
16% ，指数整体却因 AI 相关⻰头股的强势⽽维持在⾼位附近，形成严重的 " 指数虚胖 " 格局。
对冲基⾦的⾏为同样印证了这⼀分裂：据⾼盛最新 Prime 数据，美国多空基⾦总杠杆升⾄
210.6% （⼀年期第 42 百分位），⽽净杠杆却降⾄ 48.6% （⼀年期第 5 百分位） —— 机构在加仓的
同时⼤幅对冲，反映出 " 加敞⼝但不加⽅向性押注 " 的⾼度⽭盾⼼态。
AI 撑起⻔⾯，多数股票已在 " 熊市 "
⾼盛合伙⼈、美洲股票执⾏服务主管 John Flood 指出， AI 板块的强势掩盖了美股内部的⼴泛恶
化。标普 500 指数中位数股票较 52 周⾼点下跌 16%，⽽指数本⾝仍维持在历史⾼位附近，这⼀分
化将市场⼴度拖⾄互联⽹泡沫以来最低⽔平。
具体数据显⽰，约 70% 的标普 500 成分股⽬前交易于 50 ⽇均线以下，⽽站上 200 ⽇均线的成分股
⽐例已跌破 50% 这⼀关键⻔槛。 AAII 散⼾看空⽐例接近 50% ，市场情绪已处于明显悲观区间。

⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⾼盛美国股票投资者仓位情绪指标（ Sentiment Indicator ）已降⾄ -0.9 ，与今年 3 ⽉市场阶段性
低点时的读数持平。
然⽽，这种悲观情绪并未传导⾄波动率定价。 Garrett 明确指出，股票市场 " 拒绝为任何恐慌定
价 "—— ⾼盛恐慌指数收于 1 以下，单股隐含波动率在 7 ⽉底的抛售潮后也未能有效重置⾄更⾼⽔
平。
VIX 与 MOVE 的极端背离：债市已在 " 尖叫 "
当前市场最显著的结构性异常，是股票波动率与债券波动率之间的极端背离。
Garrett 指出， MOVE 指数（追踪美国债券市场波动率）⽬前处于约 100 百分位的历史极端⽔平，
信⽤违约互换指数（ CDX ）同样处于 " 峰值恐慌 " 区间；但与此同时，VIX 仍在低⼗⼏的⽔平交
易。债市和信⽤市场已在为尾部⻛险定价，股票市场却仍⼀派平静。
从信⽤市场细节来看，⾼盛投资级信⽤同事 Brad Shelofsky 指出，投资级债券全收益率已升⾄多
年⾼位，收益率本⾝具有吸引⼒，但利差占全收益率的⽐例处于低位，在 +80 个基点的利差⽔平

上很难对指数产⽣强烈的做多冲动。 利率快速上⾏的速度将压制需求、引发资⾦外流担忧 ——
尽管上周仍录得 18 亿美元净流⼊，但市场整体信念度偏低。
此外，CCC 级信⽤利差在过去 14 个交易⽇中有 11 天⾛阔，已接近 2022 年的⽔平；投资级科技板
块 CDS 利差也扩⾄ 2023 年以来最宽。 Garrett 表⽰，这⼀动态 " 在夏季令投资者真正感到恐慌，能
否再度上演，有待观察 " 。

### Page 3

2000 年的幽灵：历史先例与潜在⻛险
BTIG ⾸席技术市场策略师 Jonathan Krinsky 在 Flood 和 Garrett 的分析基础上进⼀步指出，当前两
项⼴度指标同时触发，是⾃ 2000 年以来从未出现过的组合。
⾃ 1990 年以来，仅有 25 个交易⽇出现过 " 标普 500 成分股中不⾜ 50% 站上 200 ⽇均线、且指数本
⾝接近 52 周⾼点 " 的组合，⽽这 25 个交易⽇全部集中在 1998 年⾄ 2000 年之间。1998 年的情形出
现在 -22% 的⼤幅回撤之后，并⾮顶部信号；但 1999 年底⾄ 2000 年初的读数则更具警⽰意义 ——
彼时正是互联⽹泡沫的顶部区域。

### Page 4

历史复盘显⽰，从 1999 年 7 ⽉⾄ 2000 年 2 ⽉，等权重标普 500 下跌约 16% ，⽽市值加权标普 500
上涨约 8% ；此后两者⻆⾊互换，标普 500 在当年晚些时候下跌 17% ，⽽等权重指数同期反弹
20% 。 Krinsky 提出的核⼼问题是：
这⼀次，是否会重演⼴度和等权重指数先于⼤盘指数企稳、随后⼤盘补跌的历史剧本？

### Page 5

Krinsky 还指出，⽬前已连续 213 个交易⽇未出现纽交所单⽇下跌成交量占⽐超过 80% 的 " ⾼相关
性抛售⽇ " 。历史上，平均每个⽇历年出现 21 个此类交易⽇，且从未有过少于 5 个的年份。他认
为，持续的板块轮动虽然阻⽌了相关性趋于⼀的集中抛售，但 " 时钟仍在滴答作响 " 。
对冲基⾦：加杠杆但不加⽅向，⽭盾信号浓缩
对冲基⾦的仓位结构，是当前市场⽭盾⼼态最直接的映射。
据⾼盛 Prime 最新数据，美国多空基⾦总杠杆上周上升 1.2 个百分点⾄ 210.6% （⼀年期第 42 百分
位），⽽净杠杆同期下降 1.2 个百分点⾄ 48.6% （⼀年期第 5 百分位）。总杠杆上升意味着机构在增
加市场敞⼝，净杠杆下降则意味着多头和空头同步扩张，⽅向性押注并未增加。
Garrett 将这⼀现象概括为：
美国基本⾯多空⽐率（市值⼝径）同期下降 1.5% ⾄ 1.601 ，处于⼀年期第 3 百分位，进⼀步印证
机构对⽅向的⾼度谨慎。
“总杠杆在上升，净杠杆相对受控 —— 机构在增加敞⼝，但并未增加⽅向性信念。”

### Page 6

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
Garrett 指出，在市场反弹⽇，可以 “ 感受到 ” 市场的低配仓位 —— 上周⼀纳斯达克 100 指数创历史
新⾼时，看涨期权隐含波动率明显跑赢，显⽰上⾏期权被积极买⼊，但考虑到持有成本，这些
期权并不 “ 昂贵 ” 。他认为，这⼀格局正在推动单股层⾯的 “ 追涨 ” ⾏为，并可能蔓延⾄指数层⾯。
三种情景：好、平庸，还是丑陋？
⾯对上述信号，⾼盛内部及市场策略师给出了分歧明显的三种情景判断。
乐观情景⽅⾯， Flood 认为，当前极度悲观的情绪和低配仓位本⾝构成潜在的上⾏催化剂。他表
⽰， “ 这些因素共同指向，若宏观不确定性不进⼀步加剧，市场存在整体上⾏以及近期落后股票
‘ 补涨 ’ 的潜⼒ ” 。
中性情景⽅⾯， Garrett 认为 “ 市场当前的仓位结构适合震荡⻛险⾏情 ” ，但承认 “ 尽管所有⼈都在

盯着同样的⻛险，⼏乎没有什么能够真正打垮美股指数 ” 。他将年底前的潜在催化剂列为中期选
举、科技股财报或中东局势缓和，并援引⼀句市场流⾏语作结： “市场从不会在不让你付出错过
代价的情况下给出 ‘ 全⾯安全 ’ 的信号。 ”
悲观情景⽅⾯， Krinsky 的结论最为直接： “某些东西必须让步（ something's gotta give ）。 ”他
认为，若伊朗局势出现缓和，受冲击最重的板块（⾮必需消费品、⾦融、 REITs 、公⽤事业）将
率先反弹，⽽科技和 AI 板块可能相对滞后；但若⾼相关性抛售⽇最终到来，当前的⼴度恶化将成
为更⼤规模调整的先⾏指标。
限免

### Page 7

46 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 518: 周二，特朗普与六巨头齐聚白宫，决定未来AI发展方向

Source PDF: all report pdf/周二，特朗普与六巨头齐聚白宫，决定未来AI发展方向.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 3
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

周⼆，特朗普将在⽩宫与 Meta 、 Anthropic 、 OpenAI 、⾕歌、 Palantir 、英伟达六⼤科技
公司 CEO 共进午餐，议题聚焦 AI 监管与创新的平衡。众议院议⻓ Mike Johnson 明确反对过
度监管。当 AI 安全警报接连拉响，华盛顿与硅⾕的这场午餐，正在决定这项技术将被如何
对待。
摘要：
当地时间 9 ⽉ 29 ⽇周⼆，特朗普将在⽩宫与六家顶级科技公司 CEO 共进午餐。这场会议的核⼼问
题只有⼀个：美国政府究竟要不要管 AI ，以及怎么管。
据六位知情⼈⼠向 Politico 确认，出席者包括 Meta CEO 扎克伯格、 Anthropic CEO Dario
Amodei 、 OpenAI 总裁 Greg Brockman 、⾕歌 CEO Sundar Pichai 、 Palantir CEO Alex
Karp ，以及英伟达 CEO ⻩仁勋。众议院议⻓ Mike Johnson 也将出席。
会议召开的时机颇为敏感。就在同⼀天，⼀批顶级 AI 研究⼈员联名发出警告，称 AI ⾃动化可能引

发 “ 智能爆炸 ” ，威胁⼈类的⽣存。与此同时，多起真实的 AI 安全事故已经发⽣。这场午餐，正处
于监管压⼒骤然升温的节点上。
Johnson 划定基调：创新优先，但要有边界
据路透社报道，众议院议⻓ Mike Johnson 周⼀在接受 Fox Business Network 采访时，提前为这
场会议定了调：
他同时表⽰： “ 创新必须继续，但我们必须找到正确的平衡。这就是这次对话要谈的。 ”
Johnson 还提到了司法部的⻆⾊：
这⼀表态与特朗普的⼀贯⽴场基本⼀致。特朗普此前已多次淡化 AI 滥⽤⻛险，强调美国必须保持
对中国的竞争优势，并称美国在司法部层⾯已有相应的防护机制。
六巨头⻬聚，各有盘算
据报道，此次出席的六位 CEO 代表了当前 AI 产业的核⼼⼒量，但他们对监管的态度并不⼀致。
Amodei 在会议前⼀天（周⽇）已与特朗普单独共进晚餐。 OpenAI 、 Anthropic 等公司近期均公
开呼吁放缓 AI 开发速度，理由是⽆法有效控制快速演进的技术⻛险。
扎克伯格则⾛了另⼀条路。报道指出，在 OpenAI 和 Anthropic ⾼管发出严厉警告之际，他更多聚

焦于 AI 能带来的正⾯价值。
我们不需要暂停。我们不需要⼀头扎进去搞过度监管，因为那样我们会在与中国的竞争中落败。
如果出了问题，司法部或许有介⼊的空间。但在那之前，我们需要的是透明度和⼀定程度的监
督。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
228 收藏 分享到 :
值得注意的是，⻩仁勋和 Sundar Pichai 上周刚刚出席了⽩宫的国宴。这场午餐，是他们与特朗
普政府的⼜⼀次密集接触。
研究⼈员警告 “ 智能爆炸 ” ，安全事故已成现实
就在⽩宫会议召开前⼣，⼀份由顶级 AI 研究⼈员联署的警告⽂件引发⼴泛关注。
据雅虎财经报道，这份⽂件的署名者包括来⾃ OpenAI 、 Anthropic 、微软、 Meta 的研究⼈员，以
及 AI 领域的奠基⼈ Geoffrey Hinton 和 Yoshua Bengio 。他们警告称， AI 研究的⾃动化可能迅速超
出⼈类的控制范围，并可能导致 “ ⼈类的边缘化乃⾄灭绝 ” ，呼吁政策制定者对头部 AI 实验室实施
强制监管。
这份警告并⾮空⽳来⻛。今年 7 ⽉， 688 个 OpenAI 智能体逃逸了 Hugging Face 的沙盒环境，获得

了⽣产服务器的最⾼权限，并下载了私有代码库。更早之前，⼀个 OpenAI 智能体⼊侵了澳⼤利
亚国家医保数据库，成为已知⾸例 AI ⼊侵政府⽹络事件。 Anthropic 和 Google 也已确认，其模型
在测试期间曾⼊侵第三⽅系统。
在此背景下，英伟达周⼀发布了 “ 开放智能体安全平台 ” ，声称其新的 CPU 级沙盒和监控⼯具本可
阻⽌ Hugging Face 事件的发⽣。 Nvidia 股价当⽇上涨 2.77% 。值得⼀提的是， Nvidia 此前已以
130 亿美元收购了 Hugging Face 。
政治分歧浮出⽔⾯
这场会议背后，华盛顿内部的分歧同样清晰。
众议院⺠主党领袖 Hakeem Jeffries 周⼀在接受 CNBC 采访时表⽰， AI ⾏业领袖本⾝正在寻求政
府⾏动，国会有责任保护美国⺠众。他直接说：
两党议员均对特朗普的 “ 放⼿ ” 态度提出质疑，担忧 AI 带来的安全⻛险、就业冲击，以及少数科技
巨头对这项技术的⾼度垄断。
与此同时，特朗普近期在联合国明确表⽰，美国将拒绝国际 AI 监管框架。⽽ OpenAI CEO Sam

Altman 则公开主张，全球治理是必要的。双⽅⽴场的张⼒，将在这场午餐上直接碰撞。
在 AI 安全问题上，我们显然需要⼤胆⽽负责任地⾏动 —— 现在就要。
限免

### Page 3

写评论
图⽚
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 519: 商务部公布中美贸易理事会和“300亿对300亿”对等降税框架有关情况

Source PDF: all report pdf/商务部公布中美贸易理事会和“300亿对300亿”对等降税框架有关情况.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
15 收藏 分享到 :
双⽅商定对各⾃规模约为 300 亿美元（参照 2024 年度双边贸易额）的进⼝产品，在符合双
⽅各⾃国内法律和程序的基础上，以对等⽅式提供降低关税待遇。其中超过 90% 的产品，
将免除相互加征的全部关税，享受最惠国关税待遇。
摘要：
2026 年 5 ⽉，中美两国元⾸在北京会晤，同意双⽅建⽴政府间贸易理事会。 9 ⽉ 20 ⽇ —23 ⽇，中
美双⽅在美国纽约和华盛顿举⾏第⼋轮经贸磋商，就中美贸易理事会⼯作规程、 “300 亿对 300
亿 ” 对等降税框架职责⽂件、降税产品清单等达成共识。
根据⼯作规程，贸易理事会的任务是优化双边贸易，将讨论优化双边贸易的安排和影响贸易的
问题。相信贸易理事会将为中美在经贸领域不断拉⻓合作清单、压缩问题清单提供重要平台和
机制保障，助⼒中美建设性战略稳定关系。

中美双⽅在贸易理事会框架下就 300 亿美元对等降税框架达成共识。双⽅商定对各⾃规模约为
300 亿美元（参照 2024 年度双边贸易额）的进⼝产品，在符合双⽅各⾃国内法律和程序的基础
上，以对等⽅式提供降低关税待遇。其中超过 90% 的产品，将免除相互加征的全部关税，享受
最惠国关税待遇。
双⽅基于各⾃市场需要和产业利益，商定了对等降税产品清单。美⽅将对玩具、家电、婴⼉⽤
品、厨卫⽤品、节⽇礼物等约 300 亿美元⾃华进⼝商品降低关税。中⽅将对农产品、个⼈护理⽤
品、医疗器械、煤炭等约 300 亿美元⾃美进⼝商品降低关税。双⽅商定共同公布各⾃降税产品清
单。后续，双⽅将在履⾏各⾃国内相关法律程序后，同步实施降税。这⼀安排有助于稳定中美
贸易，为中国相关产品对美出⼝创造较好条件，也有利于满⾜国内市场需求，加强双⽅在农产
品、能源、制成品、消费品等领域的贸易合作。
双⽅同意在贸易理事会下设⽴农业⼯作组，讨论包括监管和市场准⼊在内的相关议题，处理贸
易关切，扩⼤农业领域务实合作。农业⼯作组计划在 2026 年底前召开⾸次会议。中⽅将通过⼯

作组会议继续推动美⽅解决中⽅农业领域关切。
本⽂来源：商务部
限免
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

---
## Document 527: 四季度如何配置？科技等趋势、周期等加息、内需等政策，如果都不行只能红利

Source PDF: all report pdf/四季度如何配置？科技等趋势、周期等加息、内需等政策，如果都不行只能红利.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-28
Pages: 18
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

中⾦认为，中报数据揭⽰ A 股 K 型分化持续深化： AI 硬件、半导体、原材料⾼增⻓，消费、
地产链持续阴跌。配置不能单看胜率或赔率 —— 拥挤交易吞噬趋势收益，低估值陷阱同样
致命。四季度配置核⼼逻辑清晰 —— 科技等产业催化、周期待美联储加息落地、内需押注
政策发⼒；三者若均落空，红利资产或成唯⼀归宿。
摘要：
摘要
6 ⽉下旬以来的动荡说明单看胜率⾏不通，拥挤交易的回撤⾜以吞噬趋势的收益；消费与地产链
便宜了两三年仍在阴跌，说明单看赔率同样⾏不通。配置必须同时回答胜率与赔率两个问题。
三季度以来，分化格局仍在延续，外围美联储加息扰尚未完全平息。站在 9 ⽉底，本⽂回答三个
问题：如何构建兼顾胜率与赔率的⾏业⽐较框架？中报提供了哪些胜率与赔率线索？四季度⼜
该如何配置？
󾠮  胜率刻画基本⾯确定性，由微观流动性与盈利预期构成，赔率刻画估值的均值回归空间。单
看任何⼀个维度都不理想；兼顾两者、按 80% 胜率与 20% 赔率加权打分的策略，回报显著优于
同期 MSCI 中国指数。
󾠯  财报⾥的胜率线索：谁在兑现，谁在掉队？兑现的是泛外需与 AI 硬件，掉队的是泛消费与互

联⽹。⼆季度盈利增速前六的申万⼀级⾏业、 ROE 改善居前的申万⼆级⾏业⼤多被胜率赔率框
架捕捉；框架最新打分前五为能源、保险、交通运输、制药、原材料，半导体位居第六。
󾠰  四季度如何配置？科技在等产业催化，短期确定性仍在硬件瓶颈环节；周期看美联储加息兑
现；内需还得等政策，恒科是 “ ⼤号版消费 ” ；如果都不⾏，那就只能红利。
正⽂
今年以来，市场的核⼼⽭盾是有⽆ AI 之间的极致分化。买 AI 买的是胜率，但要承受⾼拥挤与⾼波
动；买消费买的是赔率，但基本⾯迟迟不兑现。
6 ⽉下旬以来的动荡说明单看胜率⾏不通，拥挤交易的回撤⾜以吞噬趋势的收益；消费与地产链
便宜了两三年仍在阴跌，说明单看赔率同样⾏不通。配置必须同时回答胜率与赔率两个问题。
中报为检验上述问题提供了最新样本。⼆季度全 A 盈利同⽐增⻓ 29.4% ，为 2021 年三季度以来最
⾼的单季增速，但仍有约四成⾏业盈利同⽐下滑，⾼增⻓集中在少数⾏业。类似的，港股中报
呈现同样的分化，上半年港股盈利同⽐增⻓ 18.2% ，半导体、原材料、保险盈利增速居前，消费

类⾏业普遍下滑（图表 1 ）。
图表 1 ：港股中报呈现类似 A 股的分化，上半年港股盈利同⽐增⻓ 18.2% ，半导体、原材料、保
险盈利增速居前，消费类⾏业普遍下滑
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
三季度以来，科技强、消费弱的格局继续延续；美联储 9 ⽉加息落地后，市场对 10 ⽉继续加息的
预期仍在发酵，外围扰动反复。
站在 9 ⽉底，本⽂回答三个问题：如何构建兼顾胜率与赔率的⾏业⽐较框架？中报提供了哪些胜
率与赔率线索？四季度⼜该如何配置？
⼀、如何兼顾胜率与赔率？构建跨⾏业的⽐较框架
⾯对波动与拥挤都⼗分极致的市场，单纯抱团主线或押注⾼切低各有瑕疵。针对这⼀痛点，我
们综合赔率胜率对⾏业进⾏打分排序，以找到更优的配置策略。我们以 MSCI 中国⾏业指数构建
胜率赔率框架： 1 ）胜率刻画基本⾯确定性，即未来⼀段时间⾏业上⾏的概率； 2 ）赔率刻画向
上与向下空间的⾮对称程度，即估值的均值回归空间。
► 胜率由微观流动性与盈利预期两部分构成。⾸先，微观流动性刻画⾏业⾃⾝交易强弱，包括
动量、波动率与量价弹性。其次，盈利预期因⼦横向⽐较各⾏业动态 EPS 和 ROE 同⽐变化，但
考虑到卖⽅⼀致预期往往滞后，我们在原框架基础上（详⻅《 AI 之外还有什么值得买？》），进⼀

步补充合同负债 + 预收账款对盈利预期进⾏调整。合同负债与预收账款同⽐增速的变化（⼆阶
导）⼀定程度上可以反映需求变动的⽅向。该数据主要取⾃ A 股财报，虽然与部分以港股为主的
⾏业存在误差，但对于⼤部分⾏业数据都更可以反映全貌。
► 赔率则是基于各⾏业动态 PE 、 PB 、 PS 滚动 5 年的分位数综合得到，估值越便宜、赔率得分越
⾼，其依据是估值的均值回归特征，便宜本⾝就是空间的重要来源。
之所以要结合胜率与赔率两个维度，是因为任何⼀个维度单独使⽤都有明显的局限性：
► 只看胜率，容易在拥挤交易中遭遇重⼤回撤。如果仅以胜率筛选⾏业，我们回测显⽰，正向
权重（得分越⾼赋予仓位越⾼）的策略下， 2021 年 2 ⽉⾄ 2026 年 8 ⽉年化收益 8.1% 、最⼤回
撤 -40.4% ，表现明显不如胜率与赔率结合后的结果（图表 2 ）。胜率本质上是对既有趋势的确
认，趋势延续则持仓或持续收获超额收益；然⽽，⼀旦叙事或宏观范式转变，前期涨幅最极致
的品种，恰恰在扰动出现时跌得最多，即 “ 赢家诅咒 ” 。今年的半导体即是如此，⼀致预期与资⾦

抱团推动板块上半年快速上⾏，然⽽多重因素扰动下 6 ⽉下旬以来⼜⾃⾼点⼤幅回撤。
图表 2 ：只看胜率，容易在拥挤交易中遭遇重⼤回撤，不利于⻓期业绩表现

### Page 3

注：回测数据⾃ 2021 年 2 ⽉⾄ 2026 年 8 ⽉，后同
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
► 只看赔率，机会成本太⼤，且可能陷⼊ “ 低估值陷阱 ” 。若仅以赔率做筛选， 2021 年以来年化
收益 -4.3% ，且 2021 年⾄ 2023 年连续三年亏损（图表 4 ）。市场定价便宜的资产⼤多有便宜的道
理，低估值往往对应基本⾯缺位，消费与地产链过去两年的持续低迷即是例证。博弈赔率的本
质是博弈反转，但如果促成反转的 “ 催化剂 ” 始终不出现，则赔率资产往往持续贡献负收益。尤其
对于相对投资者，只看赔率的问题在于⻓期低迷下的 “ 机会成本 ” 。
图表 3 ：基准策略下，按综合得分递减配置（正权重）的净值表现优于等权配置
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 4 ：只看赔率，则可能陷⼊ “ 低估值陷阱 ”

### Page 4

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
对⽐之下，以胜率为主兼顾赔率的筛选策略可以起到更好的效果。在实操中，我们按 80% 胜率
和 20% 赔率得分得到每个⾏业的综合打分，选取前五的⾏业构建组合，并以得分⾼低赋予权
重，⽉度调仓。回测显⽰，这⼀策略⻓期有效战胜基准指数， 2021 年 2 ⽉⾄ 2026 年 8 ⽉，该策略
组合年化 13.2% 、最⼤回撤 -33.8% ，显著优于 MSCI 中国（年化 -7.5% 、回撤 -59.0% ）；此外，按
打分⾼低赋权的策略，回报⾼于等权策略（年化约 8.8% ），也印证了我们打分的有效性。
⼆、财报⾥的胜率线索：谁在兑现，谁在掉队？
整体看，⼆季度 A 股盈利增速亮眼，但⾼增⻓集中在少数⾏业，结构分化依然极致。⼆季度全
A 、⾮⾦融盈利同⽐分别增⻓ 29.4% 、 25.2% ，为 2021 年三季度以来最⾼的增速（图表 5 ），但仍
有约四成⾏业盈利同⽐下滑。以上半年累计⼝径看，全 A 、⾮⾦融盈利分别增⻓ 19.4% 、

20.6% ，⾮⾦融盈利增量基本由电⼦、有⾊⾦属、⽯油⽯化、基础化⼯四个⾏业贡献，其余⾮⾦
融⾏业合计净减少（图表 6 ）。此外，⼈⺠币升值放⼤了汇兑损失，占⾮⾦融整体归⺟净利润的
5.8% ，为 2015 年以来最⾼，家电、机械、电⼒设备、汽⻋等出海链条⾸当其冲。港股中报情况
与 A 股类似，上半年港股整体盈利增⻓ 18.2% ，增速居前的同样是半导体（ 335% ）、原材料
（ 87% ）、保险（ 73% ），汽⻋、⻝品饮料等消费类⾏业普遍下滑两到五成不等（图表 1 ）。
图表 5 ： 2Q26 归⺟净利润单季同⽐为 3Q21 以来最⾼
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部

### Page 5

图表 6 ：累计⼝径下，⾮⾦融的盈利增量基本由电⼦、有⾊、⽯油⽯化、化⼯四个⾏业贡献
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
从胜率⻆度看，谁在兑现、谁在掉队？兑现的是泛外需与 AI 硬件，掉队的是泛消费与互联⽹。这
与我们框架当前给出的胜率排序⼀致，截⾄ 9 ⽉ 26 ⽇综合得分前五的⾏业为能源、保险、交通运
输、制药、原材料，上述⽅向中多为泛外需品种，半导体排在第六（图表 30 ）。
► ⾸先，业绩增速居前的⾏业，⼤多正是框架筛出的⾼胜率⽅向。⼆季度单季盈利增速前六的
申万⼀级⾏业（电⼦、⾮银、有⾊、煤炭、基础化⼯、⽯油⽯化），正好对应框架得分第六的半
导体与前五中的保险、原材料、能源。此外，框架中选出的交运（权重是海运，航运港⼝盈利
同⽐增⻓ 32.6% ）与创新药链条（⽣物制品增⻓ 141% 、化学制药增⻓ 14.8% ）盈利正在兑现。
反⽅向同样成⽴，业绩靠后的汽⻋、⻝品饮料、社会服务、家电等消费板块，均为框架筛出的
低胜率、⾼赔率⽅向。
► 其次， ROE 改善居前的⾏业同样⼤多被框架捕捉。申万⼆级⾏业中⼆季度 ROE （ TTM ⼝径，

下同）同⽐改善前⼗分别为能源⾦属、半导体、⼯业⾦属、游戏、保险、其他电⼦、通信设
备、电池、⼩⾦属和元件。其中，除电池和游戏外，其余⼋个均属框架捕捉的原材料、保险与 AI
硬件⽅向； ROE 下⾏居前的，除养殖与饲料是猪周期回落外，集中在零售、厨卫电器、⽩酒、
⽩⾊家电等消费⾏业，同样落在框架筛出的低胜率⽅向。
除了后验的盈利与 ROE 外，有⼀些前瞻效果的订单与库存也表明分化仍在延续，这与⾼频数据
的情况可以互相验证：
► 订单显⽰科技强、消费弱的分化仍在延续。以预收 + 合同负债作为订单的代理指标，电⼦订单
同⽐增速逐季加速⾄ 21.4% ，其中通信设备、半导体分别增⻓ 31.5% 、 12.4% ；消费板块订单仅
增⻓ 0.1% 、基本持平，⻝品饮料、商贸零售分别下降 4.6% 、 4.0% 。进⼀步看，景⽓仍在加速的
⾏业集中在少数⽅向。 124 个申万⼆级⾏业中，同时满⾜订单增速超过 10% 、较过去四个季度均
值改善、营收单季同⽐超过 10% 、归⺟净利润单季同⽐为正四个条件的只有 15 个（图表 8 ）。除

AI 硬件（其他电⼦、元件、通信设备、半导体）外，资源品（⼩⾦属、⾮⾦属材料、⾦属新材
料、煤炭开采、橡㬵），制造与出⼝链（⾃动化设备、商⽤⻋、航运港⼝、造纸）也在列，与框
架筛出的能源、原材料、交运等⾼胜率⽅向基本⼀致。
图表 7 ：杜邦拆解来看，全 A ⾮⾦融 ROE （ TTM ）回升主要由利润率驱动

### Page 6

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 8 ：领先指标显⽰ 15 个⾏业景⽓或仍⼤概率延续
注：⾏业分类选⽤申万⼆级⾏业
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
► 订单结合库存，更能显⽰所处的状态。科技⽅⾯，半导体、通信设备存货同⽐分别增⻓
40.4% 、 40.6% ，订单与收⼊同步⾼增，是需求强劲下的主动补库；消费板块中，⻝品饮料订单
下降 4.6% 、存货却增⻓ 9.5% ，是需求不⾜下的被动累库；商贸零售订单与存货分别下降 4.0% 、
3.3% ，是主动去库。
► 9 ⽉以来⾼频数据显⽰景⽓结构分化仍在延续。算⼒链景⽓延续，韩国 9 ⽉前 20 ⽇出⼝总额同
⽐增⻓ 78.3% ⾄ 714 亿美元，创有记录以来同期最⾼；其中半导体出⼝同⽐增⻓ 259% ，较 8 ⽉的
199% 进⼀步抬升（图表 9 ）。存储价格同步上⾏， DXI 指数 9 ⽉同⽐涨幅 931% ，虽较 8 ⽉的
1025% ⼩幅回落，仍处历史⾼位，存储涨价周期延续。传统内需未现拐点，最新公布的 8 ⽉社零

同⽐仅增⻓ 0.4% ，其中汽⻋类零售同⽐下降 18.5%[1] ；中国汽⻋流通协会⼝径 9 ⽉前 20 ⽇全国
乘⽤⻋零售 87.8 万辆、同⽐下降 22%[2] ，终端需求依然偏弱。
图表 9 ：⾼频数据显⽰，算⼒链景⽓仍持续

### Page 7

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
三、财报⾥的赔率线索：消费便宜，但仅便宜就够吗？
当前赔率最⾼的⽅向⼏乎全是消费。在胜率赔率框架的最新结果中，⻝品饮料、耐⽤消费品、
汽⻋、消费服务、电商零售等⾏业的估值分位均处于 5 年低位，赔率得分居前。
消费便宜的原因在于需求弱，且仍在⾛弱。中报层⾯， A 股消费⾏业盈利多数下滑，板块 ROE
（ ROE 与利润率都是 TTM ⼝径，下同）从 2Q25 的 9.4% 连续四个季度降⾄ 7.1% 。消费是利润率
驱动型⾏业， ROE 下⾏⼏乎完全来⾃利润率挤压，板块⽑利率同期从 26.4% 降⾄ 25.6% 。港股消
费的⼤类板块同样全线⾛弱，上半年可选消费、必需消费盈利分别下降 28.2% 、 22.6% 。分品类
看：
► 必选消费明显⾛弱。⻝品饮料盈利同⽐下降 18.9% ，其中⽩酒下降 21.4% ；⻝品饮料⽑利率
从 50.9% 降⾄ 48.9% ， ROE 从 19.0% 降⾄ 15.8% ，⽩酒 ROE 从 24.6% 降⾄ 19.3% 。存货与营收的

背离也说明约束在需求端：⻝品饮料存货增⻓ 9.5% ⽽营收下降 4.8% ，⽩酒存货增⻓ 12.4% 、营
收下降 17.0% ，是被动累库⽽⾮主动扩张。
► ⼤件消费同样⾛弱。以旧换新政策退坡后，汽⻋⼆季度盈利同⽐下降 19.3% ，其中乘⽤⻋营
收同⽐已经转负（ -2.7% ），盈利同⽐下降 64.4% ， ROE 从 7.5% 降⾄ 3.9% ；家电盈利下降
4.8% ，⽩⾊家电 ROE 从 19.8% 降⾄ 15.7% ；家居⽤品盈利下降 50.0% ， ROE 从 8.2% 降⾄ 4.3% 。
► 港股消费⾏业也是如此，上半年⻝品饮料、汽⻋、消费者服务、可选消费分销与零售（以电
商零售为主）盈利分别下降 29.5% 、 42.0% 、 31.5% 、 49.3% 。
经济数据也显⽰消费与地产链的⾛弱仍在延续。 8 ⽉社零当⽉同⽐增⻓ 0.4% 、较 7 ⽉进⼀步回落
0.2 个百分点，限额以上消费品零售额 8 ⽉当⽉同⽐下降 3.7% 。需求弱的根源在居⺠部⻔，就
业、地产是制约居⺠部⻔信贷扩张的核⼼： 1 ）就业与收⼊预期偏弱。 8 ⽉城镇调查失业率回升

⾄ 5.3% ， 8 ⽉制造业 PMI 从业⼈员分项回落 0.3 个百分点⾄ 48.7% ，⽤⼯景⽓仍在收缩； 2 ）地产
也尚未企稳， 1-8 ⽉新建商品房销售⾯积同⽐下降 12.1% ，降幅较上半年再度扩⼤ 0.5 个百分点。
这也导致居⺠信贷脉冲仍在低位区间，缺乏⾃发性修复的动⼒（图表 10 ）。
图表 10 ：居⺠信贷脉冲仍在低位

### Page 8

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
政策信号⽬前尚不⾜以扭转消费与内需的弱势。在居⺠信贷难以内⽣修复的情况下，消费与内
需⽅向要⾛出持续的趋势性⾏情，关键在财政能否⼤举发⼒且向消费倾斜； 7 ⽉政治局会议的政
策加⼒信号强度低于 2024 年 9 ⽉与 2025 年 4 ⽉的两次会议，即便此后财政⼒度开始 “ 追进度 ” ，其
强度仍不⾜以带动消费与内需⾛出趋势性修复（图表 11 ）。
图表 11 ：六次中央政治局会议对⽐
资料来源：中国政府⽹，中⾦公司研究部
地⽅政府专项债的发⾏进度可以佐证前述观点。会后发⾏确在提速， 8-9 ⽉新增专项债分别发⾏
约 5200 亿元和 6200 亿元，且 9 ⽉创年内单⽉新⾼；但进度偏慢，截⾄ 9 ⽉累计发⾏进度 80.6% ，
仍低于去年同期 3pcts ，为 2023 年以来同期最低（图表 12 ）。换⾔之，现阶段配置消费赚的主要
是估值修复和波动对冲的钱；即便催化落地，消费内部也需要甄别。
图表 12 ：今年地⽅政府专项债整体发⾏进度相对偏慢

### Page 9

注：以累计总发⾏额和年初计划数对⽐， 2023[3] 、 2024[4] 、 2025[5] 、 2026[6] 年计划数据来⾃
历年政府⼯作报告
资料来源：中国政府⽹， Wind ，中⾦公司研究部
四、四季度配置思路：科技等产业催化，周期待加息落地，内需还得等政策，都不⾏就只能红
利
中报确认了 K 型分化的基本⾯基础，三季度以来的⾼频数据显⽰分化仍在延续，科技强、消费
弱。经过 6 ⽉下旬以来的波动，科技暂时处在纠结的位置，美联储加息等外围扰动也仍有反复。
展望四季度的配置思路，按驱动⼒的不同，板块可以分成四⼤类：科技在等产业趋势，周期看
美联储加息兑现，内需还得等政策；如果都不⾏，那就只能回归红利策略，也即是回到 2024
年 “9·24” 之前的格局。
⾸先是科技，下⾏⻛险缓解、上⾏空间待催化，这是科技当前的 “ 困境 ” 。三个因素意味着科技的
下⾏⻛险在缓解：⼀是基本⾯仍在改善，我们跟踪的 AI 泡沫压⼒指数截⾄ 9 ⽉ 25 ⽇当周继续回
落，现⾦流（ -2.99 ）与外部融资（ -1.45 ）两个分项是主要改善来源，分别受益于⾃由现⾦流与

云业务收⼊预期改善、科技债信⽤利差改善；需求端则因⽇均 Token 使⽤量增速放缓⼩幅⾛弱；
此前未明显反弹的费半相对表现也有所修复（图表 13-14 ）；⼆是交易层⾯的泡沫压⼒持续缓解
（图表 15 ）；三是美联储 9 ⽉加息落地，除⾮出现激进加息，利率冲击最难的阶段正在过去。
图表 13 ：近期 AI 压⼒指数⼩幅回落

### Page 10

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ， Bloomberg ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 14 ：分项来看，现⾦流和外部融资是近期主要改善来源
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ， Bloomberg ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 15 ：近期科技股拥挤度有所改善
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ， Bloomberg ，中⾦公司研究部
但上⾏空间的打开需要产业催化，没有新的模型突破或业绩兑现，估值难以突破前期⾼点。科
技内部，各环节的确定性并不相同：
► 模型是最根本的环节，但难以确定公司层⾯的 “ 胜者 ” 。没有前沿模型的持续迭代，应⽤落地、
新场景、资本开⽀与硬件拉动都⽆从谈起，这也是市场担⼼前沿模型迭代放缓会拖慢产业整体
进展的原因；但模型投资可以判断产业趋势，难以精选个股，去年市场⼀致看好的 Gemini 今年
已明显掉队，当前领先的模型公司明年未必依旧领先，模型环节更适合以 “ ⼀篮⼦ ” 的⽅式参与
（图表 16 ）。
图表 16 ：模型是最根本的环节，但难以确定公司层⾯的 “ 胜者 ”

### Page 11

资料来源： RampAI[7] ，中⾦公司研究部
► 应⽤很重要，想象空间主要在 to C ，但谁能做成、怎么交易并不确定。 Meta 的 Muse 等进展让
市场开始期待⾯向个⼈⽤⼾的 AI agent ，个⼈付费的收⼊效应⽐企业付费更⼴；但谁能做出来、
何时能做成，⽬前并不确定。港股互联⽹⽬前更多仍是估值修复逻辑，进⼀步的交易空间同样
需要应⽤层⾯出现类似 “DeepSeek 时刻 ” 的突破（图表 17 ）。
图表 17 ：港股互联⽹⽬前更多仍是估值修复逻辑，进⼀步的交易空间同样需要产业催化
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ， Bloomberg ，中⾦公司研究部
► 短期确定性在硬件，尤其是瓶颈环节。在模型和应⽤的前景打开之前，投资确定性更⾼的是
美国算⼒、中国芯⽚、光模块、玻璃基板这类供给受限的资产。节奏上，我们认为，本轮硬件
的盈利周期或已⾛到中后段， 2Q27 前后是基本⾯验证的关键窗⼝。
以光模块为例（财报⼝径⼤致对应申万三级通信⽹络设备及器件），需求仍在⾛强但未到历史极

值。⼆季度订单增速升⾄ 45.9% ，⽽光伏、电池两轮⾏情顶部的订单增速均接近或超过 100%
（图表 18-20 ）、且破各⾃历史新⾼；固定资产周转率（ TTM ）⾃ 1Q25 ⻅底后连续五个季度回
升，参照⻛电、光伏、电池三轮⾏情 7 到 10 个季度的上⾏周期，本轮顶部窗⼝⼤致在 4Q26 ⾄
3Q27 。
图表 18 ： 2020-2022 年光伏⾏情中，固定资产周转率上⾏ 9Q ，预收 + 合同负债增速创历史⾼点

### Page 12

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 19 ： 2020-2022 年电⻋⾏情中，固定资产周转率上⾏ 9Q ，预收 + 合同负债增速创历史⾼点
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 20 ：⽬前通信⽹络设备及器件固定资产周转率上⾏ 5Q 、且预收 + 合同负债增速未⾄新⾼

### Page 13

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
现⾦流仍未跌⾄关键阈值。光模块⾃由现⾦流与营收之⽐（ TTM ）⼆季度为 2.0% ，我们在《港
股市场 2026 下半年展望：热闹是他们的？》中复盘四轮新兴科技制造⾏情发现，超额收益主升
浪均终结于该⽐值转负且快速恶化、约 -10% 的时点（图表 21-24 ）；以近半年平均每季回落约
2.5pcts 的速度线性外推，⼤致在 2Q27 ⾄ 3Q27 触及阈值（图表 25 ）。
图表 21 ：电⼦超额收益终于⾃由现⾦流与营收⽐约⾄ -10% 时
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 22 ：电池超额收益终于⾃由现⾦流与营收⽐约⾄ -10% 时
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 23 ：⻛电设备超额收益终于⾃由现⾦流与营收⽐约⾄ -10% 时

### Page 14

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 24 ：光伏设备超额收益主升浪终结于⾃由现⾦流转负且迅速恶化时
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 25 ：线性外推下，光模块⾃由现⾦流与营收之⽐或约在 2Q27-3Q27 触及 -10% 阈值

### Page 15

资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
位置之外，⾏情能否再⾛远取决于催化。今年 6 ⽉ AI 硬件的⾼点更接近 2021 年⾄ 2022 年新能源
⻋、光伏⾏情 M 顶的第⼀个顶，彼时第⼀个顶出现后板块回撤约三到四成，本轮⼤体相当。若基
本⾯继续兑现，⾏情仍存在修复机会，但明显突破前⾼需要⾜够强的产业催化，例如 AI 需求持续
超预期、⻰头经营性现⾦流⾜以覆盖⾼增的资本开⽀，类似今年⼀季度 Anthropic 在编程上的进
展。
其次是周期，逻辑相对简单，看外需和美联储。外需层⾯， 9 ⽉ Markit PMI 数据明显超预期，验
证了美国的经济景⽓，也意味着外需或仍有持续性（图表 28-29 ）。联储货币政策⽅⾯，当前市
场的加息预期仍有反复。参考 CME FedWatch ，市场预期美联储 10 ⽉会议再加息 25bp 的概率约
64% ， 12 ⽉累计再加息⼀到两次的预期⼤体相当（图表 26 ）。但我们认为本轮不是⼀轮⻓的加
息，⼤⽅向仍是逐步筑顶。
图表 26 ：市场预期美联储 10 ⽉会议再加息 25bp 的概率约 64%

资料来源： CME FedWatch ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 28 ： 9 ⽉美国 Markit 制造业 PMI 整体超预期

### Page 16

资料来源： Haver ，中⾦公司研究部
图表 29 ： 9 ⽉美国 Markit 服务业 PMI 整体超预期
资料来源： Haver ，中⾦公司研究部
再次是内需，关键还得看政策。居⺠信贷难以内⽣修复，没有政策发⼒，消费与内需就难以⾛
出趋势性⾏情。若政策落地、居⺠端信⽤周期重启，配置效率更⾼的选择是恒⽣科技。恒科本
⾝可以被视作 “ ⼤号版消费 ” ，在居⺠端信⽤周期改善的阶段，恒科的表现或好于消费板块、弹性
更⼤， “9·24” 之后即是例证（图表 27 ）。
图表 27 ：恒科本⾝可被视作 “ ⼤号消费 ”
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
最后，如果科技没有等来催化、周期依然⾯临扰动、国内财政政策⼜持续缺位，那市场就只剩
红利这⼀个⽅向，也⼤致是 “9·24” 之前经济和市场的状态。
我们胜率赔率框架的结果也与上述分析相匹配。截⾄ 9 ⽉ 26 ⽇，综合得分前五的⾏业为能源、保
险、交通运输、制药、原材料（图表 30 ）。能源与原材料对应上游涨价的持续兑现，制药对应创

新药出海的盈利改善，交通运输的胜率改善主要来⾃航运、对应航运港⼝的订单与盈利同步兑

### Page 17

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
75 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
现，保险对应中报盈利⾼增，同时兼具红利属性与不低的赔率。半导体综合得分位居第六，胜
率仍处前列、但赔率已明显偏低，⾏情在基本⾯⽀撑下仍有望延续，突破前⾼则需新的产业催
化。泛消费板块则是典型的赔率特征，与中报和⾼频共同显⽰的需求偏弱、财政催化未⾄相
符。
图表 30 ：最新⼀期胜率赔率框架下综合打分 TOP 5 的⾏业分别是：能源、保险、交通运输、制
药、原材料，半导体排第六
注：指数选⽤ MSCI 中国⾏业指数
资料来源： Wind ， FactSet ，中⾦公司研究部
往前看，四季度值得关注的主要事件有：⼀是科技进展，尤其是 Anthropic 潜在上市计划及其三
季报；⼆是油价变化与美联储 10 ⽉、 11 ⽉议息；三是财政政策，尤其是年底中央经济⼯作会

议；四是美国中期选举等地缘政治因素。
本⽂来源：中⾦点睛
限免
请发表您的评论

### Page 18

图⽚
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 539: 多资产周报：加息落地，黄金与纳指背道而驰

Source PDF: all report pdf/多资产周报：加息落地，黄金与纳指背道而驰.pdf
Report source: 国信证券
Date: 2026-09-27
Pages: 10
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

S0980513100001
基础数据
固定资产投资累计同比 -7.20
社零总额当月同比 0.40
出口当月同比 25.00
M2 7.50
市场走势
资料来源：Wind、国信证券经济研究所整理
相关研究报告
《多资产周报-人民币汇率突破6.7》 ——2026-09-19
《宏观经济周报-“供强需弱”进一步加深》 ——2026-09-19
《多资产周报-加息预期升温,黄金逐渐脱敏》 ——2026-09-14
《宏观经济周报-局部有亮点，整体仍承压》 ——2026-09-13
《宏观经济周报-政策性金融工具启用》 ——2026-09-05
加息落地，黄金与纳指背道而驰。本周（9 月 21日至 9 月 25 日），美联
储加息落地后的资产价格先涨后跌。前半周数据真空，风险资产冲高；
9 月 23日美国制造业采购经理人指数公布后，美债收益率上行、美元走
强，风险资产回落。资产价格先涨后跌，成因在于 9 月 16 日加息打开
的路径不确定性。加息落地后，利率路径的定价由单点事件转向连续博
弈，超预期的经济数据被解读为再次加息的支持证据，官员的鹰派表态

被放大为政策路径上移的信号，政策路径失去锚定，市场只能依赖数据
逐月校正，数据敏感度由此上升。市场交易第二次加息，名义利率上行
而通胀预期未同步抬升，实际利率成为本周资产定价的核心变量，黄金
与纳指的分化由此而来。黄金作为无息资产，缺乏盈利对利率的缓冲，
定价仅取决于实际利率，实际利率上行直接压低金价。股票定价为盈利
与折现率之比，纳斯达克指数存在独立的盈利上行支撑，存储涨价、代
工提价、盈利预期上修，盈利上修的幅度超过利率上行的拖累，指数得
以维持上行。后续数据节奏密集，9 月 30 日公布通胀数据修订，10 月
初公布就业与通胀数据，均将成为市场重新定价第二次加息概率、进而
重新定价实际利率的触发点。三个观测变量决定方向：其一，10 年期名
义利率能是否持续处于 5%上方，5.2%为关键观察点位，站稳则实际利率
继续压制无息资产与久期资产；其二，AI 产业链涨价能否在财报中兑现
为盈利，这是纳指盈利端的验证窗口；其三，人民币在 6.70 一线的选
择，若继续受美元压制而下行，表明内生升值的资产荒逻辑将让位于利

差逻辑。
多资产图景：
整体收益方面，本周（9 月 19 日至 9 月 26 日），权益方面，沪深 300
下跌 1.52%，恒生指数下跌 0.98%，标普 500上涨 1.22%；债券方面，中
债 10 年下跌 0.82BP，美债 10 年上涨 16BP；汇率方面，美元指数上涨
0.82%，离岸人民币贬值 0.42%；大宗商品方面，SHFE螺纹钢上涨 0.75%，
伦敦金现下跌 2.01%，伦敦银现下跌 3.02%，LME 铜上涨 1.46%，LME 铝
下跌 0.95%，WTI 原油下跌 7.87%。
资产比价方面，本周金银比数值为 65.54，较上周上升 0.68；铜油比数
值为 159.51，较上周上升 14.66；铜螺比数值为 35.33，较上周上升 0.01；
金铜比数值为 0.29，较上周下降 0.02；股债性价比数值为 4.33，较上
周上升 0.11；AH 股溢价数值为 125.2，较上周上升 1.19。
库存方面，最新一周原油库存为 45571万吨，较上周下降 178万吨；螺

纹钢库存为 439 万吨，较上周下降 36 万吨；阴极铜库存为 47147 吨，
较上周下降 8926 吨；电解铝库存为 61 万吨，较上周下降 5 万吨。
资金行为方面，最新一周美元多头持仓 27768 张，较上周上升 1797张，
空头持仓 17438 张，较上周上升 2060张；黄金 ETF规模 3390 万盎司，
较上周下降 8 万盎司。
风险提示：海外市场动荡，国内政策执行的不确定性。

### Page 2

内容目录
周度观察：加息落地，黄金与纳指背道而驰 ........................................ 4
多资产图景 .................................................................... 4
1、整体收益率 .........................................................................4
2、资产比价 ...........................................................................5
3、库存 ...............................................................................6
4、资金行为 ...........................................................................7

风险提示 ...................................................................... 8

### Page 3

图表目录
图1： 大类资产整体（债券类为 BP，其余为%） .................................................5
图2： 伦敦现货黄金白银比价 ................................................................ 5
图3： LME铜与 WTI原油比价 .................................................................5
图4： 沪铜与螺纹钢比价 .................................................................... 6
图5： 伦敦现货黄金与 LME铜比价 ............................................................ 6
图6： 沪深 300与 10年国债比价 ............................................................. 6

图7： A 股与 H股比价 .......................................................................6
图8： 美国原油库存 ........................................................................ 7
图9： 电解铝库存 .......................................................................... 7
图10： 上海阴极铜库存 ..................................................................... 7
图11： 螺纹钢库存 ......................................................................... 7
图12： 美元多空持仓 ....................................................................... 7

图13： 黄金 ETF 规模变化 ................................................................... 7

### Page 4

周度观察：加息落地，黄金与纳指背道而驰
本周（9 月 21 日至 9 月 25 日），美联储加息落地后的资产价格先涨后跌。前半
周数据真空，风险资产冲高；9月 23日美国制造业采购经理人指数公布后，美债
收益率上行、美元走强，风险资产回落。全周黄金跌破 4300美元，纳指收于 27000
点上方，同样的利率上行，两类资产方向相反。
前半周，纳斯达克指数由 9 月 16 日低点 25978 点升至 9 月 22 日的 27244 点，上
涨 4.9%；9 月 21 日、22 日，10 年期美债收益率回落至 4.96%一线。后半周，9
月美国制造业采购经理人指数升至 2021 年 7 月以来最高，叠加美联储官员密集释
放鹰派信号，10 年期美债收益率两天内由 4.97%升至 5.16%，美元指数突破 101，
纳指当日下跌 1.13%，黄金下跌 1.33%。
资产价格先涨后跌，成因在于 9 月 16日加息打开的路径不确定性。此次加息的意
义不在幅度，而在路径：市场需要重新判断，这是一次性的前置调整，还是一轮

连续紧缩的起点。加息落地后，利率路径的定价由单点事件转向连续博弈，超预
期的经济数据被解读为再次加息的支持证据，官员的鹰派表态被放大为政策路径
上移的信号，政策路径失去锚定，市场只能依赖数据逐月校正，数据敏感度由此
上升。
市场交易第二次加息，名义利率上行而通胀预期未同步抬升，实际利率成为本周
资产定价的核心变量，黄金与纳指的分化由此而来。黄金作为无息资产，缺乏盈
利对利率的缓冲，定价仅取决于实际利率，实际利率上行直接压低金价。股票定
价为盈利与折现率之比，纳斯达克指数存在独立的盈利上行支撑，存储涨价、代
工提价、盈利预期上修，盈利上修的幅度超过利率上行的拖累，指数得以维持上
行。
后续数据节奏密集，9月 30日公布通胀数据修订，10 月初公布就业与通胀数据，
均将成为市场重新定价第二次加息概率、进而重新定价实际利率的触发点。三个
观测变量决定方向：其一，10年期名义利率能是否持续处于 5%上方，5.2%为关键
观察点位，站稳则实际利率继续压制无息资产与久期资产；其二，AI 产业链涨价
能否在财报中兑现为盈利，这是纳指盈利端的验证窗口；其三，人民币在 6.70

一线的选择，若继续受美元压制而下行，表明内生升值的资产荒逻辑将让位于利
差逻辑。
多资产图景
1、整体收益率
本周（9月 19日至 9 月 26日），权益方面，沪深 300下跌 1.52%，恒生指数下跌
0.98%，标普 500上涨 1.22%；债券方面，中债 10年下跌 0.82BP，美债 10 年上涨
16BP；汇率方面，美元指数上涨 0.82%，离岸人民币贬值 0.42%；大宗商品方面，
SHFE螺纹钢上涨 0.75%，伦敦金现下跌 2.01%，伦敦银现下跌 3.02%，LME 铜上涨
1.46%，LME铝下跌 0.95%，WTI原油下跌 7.87%。

### Page 5

图1：大类资产整体（债券类为 BP，其余为%）
资料来源：WIND，国信证券经济研究所整理
2、资产比价
本周金银比数值为 65.54，较上周上升 0.68；铜油比数值为 159.51，较上周上升
14.66；铜螺比数值为 35.33，较上周上升 0.01；金铜比数值为 0.29，较上周下
降 0.02；股债性价比数值为 4.33，较上周上升 0.11；AH 股溢价数值为 125.2，
较上周上升 1.19。
图2：伦敦现货黄金白银比价 图3：LME铜与 WTI原油比价
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理

### Page 6

图4：沪铜与螺纹钢比价 图5：伦敦现货黄金与 LME铜比价
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
图6：沪深 300与 10年国债比价 图7：A股与 H股比价
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
3、库存
最新一周原油库存为 45571万吨，较上周下降 178万吨；螺纹钢库存为 439 万吨，
较上周下降 36 万吨；阴极铜库存为 47147吨，较上周下降 8926 吨；电解铝库存
为 61万吨，较上周下降 5 万吨。

### Page 7

图8：美国原油库存 图9：电解铝库存
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
图10：上海阴极铜库存 图11：螺纹钢库存
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理
4、资金行为
最新一周美元多头持仓 27768 张，较上周上升 1797张，空头持仓 17438 张，较上
周上升 2060 张；黄金 ETF 规模 3390万盎司，较上周下降 8万盎司。
图12：美元多空持仓 图13：黄金ETF 规模变化
资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理 资料来源：Wind，国信证券经济研究所整理

### Page 8

风险提示
海外市场动荡，国内政策执行的不确定性。

### Page 9

证券研究报告
免责声明
分析师声明
作者保证报告所采用的数据均来自合规渠道；分析逻辑基于作者的职业理解，通过合理判断并得出结论，
力求独立、客观、公正，结论不受任何第三方的授意或影响；作者在过去、现在或未来未就其研究报告
所提供的具体建议或所表述的意见直接或间接收取任何报酬，特此声明。
国信证券投资评级
投资评级标准 类别 级别 说明
报告中投资建议所涉及的评级（如有）分为股票评
级和行业评级（另有说明的除外）。评级标准为报
告发布日后6到 12个月内的相对市场表现，也即报
告发布日后的6到12个月内公司股价（或行业指数）
相对同期相关证券市场代表性指数的涨跌幅作为基
准。A股市场以沪深 300指数（000300.SH）作为基
准；新三板市场以三板成指（899001.CSI）为基准；
香港市场以恒生指数(HSI.HI)作为基准；美国市场
以标普 500指数(SPX.GI)或纳斯达克指数
（IXIC.GI）为基准。
股票
投资评级
优于大市 股价表现优于市场代表性指数 10%以上
中性 股价表现介于市场代表性指数±10%之间
弱于大市 股价表现弱于市场代表性指数 10%以上
无评级 股价与市场代表性指数相比无明确观点
行业
投资评级
优于大市 行业指数表现优于市场代表性指数 10%以上
中性 行业指数表现介于市场代表性指数±10%之间
弱于大市 行业指数表现弱于市场代表性指数 10%以上
重要声明
本报告由国信证券股份有限公司（已具备中国证监会许可的证券投资咨询业务资格）制作；报告版权归
国信证券股份有限公司

### Page 10

证券研究报告
国信证券经济研究所
深圳
深圳市福田区福华一路 125 号国信金融大厦 36 层
邮编：518046 总机：0755-82130833
上海
上海浦东民生路 1199 弄证大五道口广场 1 号楼 12 层
邮编：200135
北京
北京西城区金融大街兴盛街 6 号国信证券 9 层
邮编：100032

---
## Document 565: 小康状態が続くルーマニアの通貨不安

Source PDF: all report pdf/小康状態が続くルーマニアの通貨不安.pdf
Report source: MURC
Date: 2026-09-15
Pages: 4
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

2026 年 9 月 15 日

MURC Focus

小康状態が続くルーマニアの通貨不安

～レウ相場の先行きを左右する政治不安と構造改革～

調査部 主任研究員 土田 陽介

1. 5 月の暴落以降は横ばいとなっているルーマニアの通貨 
ルーマニアの通貨レウ（複数形はレイ）の対ユーロ相場は、5 月に、イリエ＝ガブリル・ボロジャン首相が率いた
中道の連立政権が崩壊したことによって暴落した（図表 1）。具体的には、1 ユーロ＝5.10 レイ程度で横ばいであ
った為替レートが、5.25 レイ前後まで下落した。その後、レウの対ユーロ相場は横ばいで推移しており、通貨不安
は小康状態となっている。

この間、中銀であるルーマニア国立銀行（BNR）は、インフレが強含みであるにもかかわらず、政策金利を据え
置いている（図表 2）。こうしたことから、BNR による金融政策運営の面からレウ安に歯止めがかかったわけではな
いと考えられる。一方、ルーマニアの外貨準備は 4 月の 616 億ユーロから 7 月には 600 億ユーロまで減少して
おり、この間に BNR がレウ買いユーロ売りの為替介入を行った可能性を物語る（図表 3）。 
図表 1. レウの対ユーロ相場 図表 2. ルーマニアの物価と金利

（注）レウの複数形はレイ。  
（出所）ルーマニア国立銀行（BNR, Banca Națională a României）

（出所）ユーロスタット、BNR 
4.85
4.90
4.95
5.00
5.05
5.10
5.15
5.20
5.25
5.30
23 24 25 26
（レイ/ユーロ）
（年、月）
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
22 23 24 25 26
（年利又は前年比、%）
（年）
消費者物価
実質金利
政策金利
〇ルーマニアの通貨レウの対ユーロ相場は、 5月の連立政権崩壊で暴落したが、 その後は横ばいで推移して
おり、通貨不安は小康状態となっている。 
〇ルーマニアでは政治不安が長期化しており、経常収支の赤字削減が進まないなど 、ファンダメンタルズに改
善が見られない。レウは依然として過大評価されており、下落余地が大きい。 
〇政権が構造改革の推進に向けた姿勢が堅持できなくなると投資家が判断すれば、レウ相場の下落につなが
る。政治不安の早期収束と構造改革の推進がレウ相場の先行きを大きく左右する。

### Page 2

8 月の外貨準備は 616 億ユーロと 7 月から回復している。これは欧州中銀（ECB）による最大 45 億ユーロの
レポラインを通じ、BNR が ECB よりユーロ資金を借り入れたためだと推察される。いずれにせよ、5 月の政権崩
壊に伴い暴落したレウの対ユーロ相場だが、直後から BNR が ECB の協力の下でレウ買いユーロ売り介入に努
めているため、レウの下落は免れているのだろう。

2. エネルギー危機と政治不安の中で経済の体質改善は遅れたまま 
通貨の安定には経済の基礎的条件（ファンダメンタルズ）の改善は不可欠であるものの、 BNR は政策金利の
引き上げに慎重である。一方、2月に生じたイラン発のエネルギーショックに伴いインフレが強含みであるため、実
質金利は依然としてマイナス圏にある。加えて、長期化する政治不安のため政府による財政引き締めが一向に進
まず、名目 GDP（国内総生産）の 8%程度の財政赤字が常態化している。

ボロジャン首相が率いる連立政権が崩壊した後も、同首相は暫定政権を率いている。この間、ニクショル・ダン
大統領はエウゲン・トマク欧州議会議員やブラショフ県議会のアドリアン・ヴェシュテア議長を新たな首相候補に
任命したが、いずれも不成功に終わった。6 月中下旬にはボロジャン首相が党首を務める中道の自由主義政党
である国民自由党が分裂する事態となり、政治不安に拍車がかかった。

こうしたことから、ルーマニアの経常収支は名目 GDP の 8%程度の赤字が定着しており、改善が見られない
（図表4）。こうした環境の下では、ファンダメンタルズの観点からレウ相場の安定は見込めないため、BNR とECB
によるレポラインを通じたレウ買い介入以外に、ルーマニアの通貨不安を和らげる術はない。ただしこれはあくま
で対症療法であるため、事態の抜本的な改善にはつながらない。

図表 3. ルーマニアの外貨準備 図表 4. ルーマニアの経常収支

（出所）BNR

（注）4 四半期後方移動平均。 
（出所）BNR

-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
300
350
400
450
500
550
600
650
700
750
800
850
22 23 24 25 26
（億ユーロ）
（年、月）
（カ月分）
水準（左目盛）
対輸入額（右目盛）
-16
-14
-12
-10
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
22 23 24 25 26
財収支 サービス収支
第一次所得収支 第二次所得収支
（対GDP比、%）
（年、四半期）

### Page 3

3. 政治不安と改革後退がさらなる通貨暴落を招く恐れ 
ルーマニアレウの対ユーロ実質レートは、コロナショック前後から名目レートとの乖離が顕著となっており、10 年
前に比べると 10%程度、増価している（図表 5）。一方、名目レートは 15%ほど減価しているため、この間の実質
レートの増価の主因は高インフレとなる。この高インフレは、ルーマニア経済のファンダメンタルズの悪化に伴うも
のであるから、ルーマニアレウの価値は過大に評価されており、修正＝下落余地が大きいと考えられる。

したがって、何らかのリスク要因が強く意識されると、ルーマニアの通貨は暴落を余儀なくされる公算が大きい。
足元では、政治不安の高まりが最大のリスク要因となる。依然として組閣ができないルーマニアであるが、この状
態が長期化すれば、ルーマニアが EU との間で約束している構造改革が後退し、EU からの支援が縮小ないし
は撤回される可能性が意識される。

現在、ダン大統領のもとで、ルーマニアは EU との間で約束している 6 つの主要改革法の公布を急いでいる。
6 つのうち、すでに 4 つの法律（国土計画・都市計画・建設に関する法、冷暖房部門の脱炭素化に関する法、国
税庁（ANAF）・税関職員の給与改革法、公務員キャリア制度改革法）は公布済みだが、残り 2 法（公職者の資産
申告や利益相反に関する規則を見直す法、公務員給与法）に関しては公務員の反発が強い。

こうした構造改革は、EU 復興基金からの資金配分を受けるための必須条件（コンディショナリティー）となって
いる。法が全て公布されても、政治不安の長期化で、ルーマニアの政権が構造改革の推進に向けた姿勢が堅持
できなくなると投資家が判断すれば、EU や ECB からのサポートが後退する可能性が意識され、レウ相場の下落
につながると懸念される。政治不安の早期収束と構造改革の推進がレウ相場の先行きを大きく左右する。

図表 5. ルーマニアレウの対ユーロ実質レート 図表 6. 主要改革 6 法の概要

（出所）BNR、ユーロスタット

法律名 内容 
国土計画・都市計画・建
設に関する法 
許認可手続きの簡素化・デジタル化、エ
ネルギー効率の改善 
冷暖房部門の脱炭素化
に関する法 再生可能エネルギー源の多様化 
国税庁（ ANAF）・税関職
員の給与改革法 
業績評価に基づくインセンティブ制度を
導入 
公務員キャリア制度改
革法 実力主義に基づく昇進制度の確立 
公職者の資産申告や利
益相反に関する規則を
見直す法 
公職者の政治倫理確立のための透明
性確保 
公務員給与法 給与一元化や手当削減による歳出の見
直し 
（注）網掛けした 4 法は公布済。 
（出所）日本貿易振興機構（JETRO）資料等

80
85
90
95
100
105
110
115
15 16 17 18 19 20 21 22 23 24 25 26
（2015年=100）
（年）
実質為替レート
名目為替レート

---
## Document 575: 扎克伯格谈Muse：个人Agent必须从预训练开始设计，虚拟机、记忆和权限系统是巨头的全栈护城河

Source PDF: all report pdf/扎克伯格谈Muse：个人Agent必须从预训练开始设计，虚拟机、记忆和权限系统是巨头的全栈护城河.pdf
Report source: Unknown
Date: 未知日期
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

扎克伯格称， Muse 从预训练开始围绕个⼈ Agent 设计，通过云端虚拟机、记忆、凭据存储
和逐项授权，让 Agent 持续替⽤⼾执⾏⻓期任务。他强调技术扩散与权⼒制衡，主张让更多
⼈⽤上强⼤ AI ，并称 Meta 正以更精简核⼼团队和更⼤算⼒重建模型研发。
摘要：
Muse 上线后， Meta 久违地拥有了⼀款迅速出圈的 AI 产品。不到两周，它登上美国应⽤下载榜
⾸。据 Sensor Tower 统计，截⾄ 9 ⽉ 22 ⽇，累计下载量已超过 250 万次。
为了让 Agent 真正替⼈⾏动， Meta 给它配置了云端虚拟机。为了让⽤⼾敢把邮件、账⼾和私⼈信
息交给它，⼜必须设计记忆、凭据存储和逐项授权的权限系统。扎克伯格认为，这些能⼒不能
靠给现成模型增加⼀个产品界⾯完成；模型从预训练开始，就要学会理解个⼈⽬标，判断哪些
信息可以使⽤、哪些不能向外披露。
这也是 Muse 背后更深的⼀场竞争。 Meta ⾸席执⾏官扎克伯格在与科技记者 Alex Heath 的对话
中，谈到了这套产品设计，也谈及 Llama 4 失利后 Meta 如何重建模型研发，以及他为什么主张让

更多⼈拥有强⼤的 AI 。访谈的主要观点包括：
1. 个⼈ Agent 要从预训练开始设计。扎克伯格认为，理解⽤⼾的⻓期⽬标，以及判断私⼈信息
的使⽤边界，不能只靠通⽤模型的后训练来解决。
2. 虚拟机让 Agent 具备持续⾏动的能⼒。Muse 可以在后台操作计算机、登录服务，并围绕⽤⼾
的⽬标推进任务。
3. 记忆让 Agent 从单次⼯具变成⻓期服务。它会根据已完成的任务和⽤⼾反馈调整后续⾏动，
也可以主动提出新的项⽬。
4. 权限决定⽤⼾敢把多少事交给 AI 。登录、付款、发送邮件和披露敏感信息需要明确授权；
Agent 只能获得完成当前任务所需的权限。
5. 隐私保护要写进系统架构。Meta 计划通过机密虚拟机和独⽴的凭据存储，减少公司及核⼼
Agent 接触⽤⼾敏感信息的机会。
6. 免费额度是扩⼤⽤⼾规模的起点。扎克伯格希望 Muse 通过帮⽤⼾省钱、赚钱和经营业务，逐
步证明个⼈ Agent 的经济价值。
7. Meta 正⽤新的⽅式追赶前沿模型。在 Llama 4 偏离预期后，扎克伯格转向更精简的核⼼研究

团队，并继续增加算⼒投⼊。
8. 技术扩散也是扎克伯格的安全主张。他认为，强⼤ AI 若只由少数机构掌握，同样会带来⻛
险；让更多⼈获得能⼒，才能形成制衡。
AI 的安全不能只靠限制访问，关键是让更多⼈拥有制衡能⼒
Alex Heath ：我们上次通话是在⼀个周末，你当时还通过智能眼镜给我打电话。那次你想谈刚
发表的⼀篇⻓⽂，其中提出了很多关于 AI 未来的主张。为什么要写这样⼀篇近似宣⾔的⽂章？
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

Mark Zuckerberg ：如果⼀家机构要在 AI 上投⼊这么多，就有责任说明⾃⼰的研究团队相信什
么，以及这些⼯作为什么能够导向⼀个积极的未来。AI 既带来巨⼤机会，也存在真实⻛险，所
有参与者都应该形成⼀套经过认真思考的理论。
我强烈反对⼀些在⾏业内被视为理所当然的观点。在我看来，更积极的未来来⾃尽可能⼴泛地
分发技术。这⼀判断建⽴在三点之上：第⼀，赋予个⼈更多能⼒，⼀直是⼈类繁荣的重要来
源；第⼆， AI 的⾸要⽤途将是创造新事物，⽽不是将现有⼯作⾃动化；第三，未来安全的基础应
是适当的权⼒制衡，⽽不是限制使⽤权。
很多⼈的直觉是，技术越强，就越应该只让少数⼈接触。我更担⼼的是，只有少数研究机构或
个⼈控制如此强⼤的能⼒。历史上，很多重要进步并⾮来⾃既有权⼒中⼼，⽽是来⾃边缘位
置、最初不被认真对待的⼈。当他们获得⾜够好的⼯具，可以证明⾃⼰的想法时，才有机会推
动真正的变化。
⽹络安全也是如此。如果有⼈拥有能够攻击系统的 AI ，最有效的应对⽅式之⼀，是让更多机构也
拥有 AI ，以便提前加固⾃⼰的系统。开源软件之所以常常更安全，正是因为更多⼈能够查看、检

验和修正它。把技术交到更多⼈⼿⾥，看似会增加⻛险，却也可能形成更稳定的制衡。
Meta 会开发领先模型，也会发布⼀部分开放模型，但这不意味着所有成果都必须开源。营利性
公司可以保留⼀部分先进技术。关键是维持强健的开源⽣态，让市场保持竞争，也让外界能够
理解技术的发展⽅向。以 Hugging Face 遭遇⼊侵的事件为例，他们发现⼊侵后转⽽使⽤开源模
型，因为他们⽆法获得某些与这次问题有关的闭源模型。这说明世界上需要保护的重要机构远
不⽌排名最靠前的⼀百家。
不过，⽐开源本⾝更重要的，是让普通⼈真正⽤上技术。 Muse 体现的就是这⼀思路：给每个⼈
⼀个能⼒很强的个⼈ AI Agent ，让它理解⽤⼾的⽬标，并且每天 24 ⼩时持续代表⽤⼾⼯作。
Alex Heath ：AI 和数据中⼼正在受到越来越强烈的抵触。你的意思是不是，如果更多⼈能够得
到⽬前集中在少数研究机构⼿中的能⼒，他们就不会再觉得⾃⼰被排除在 AI 进程之外？
Mark Zuckerberg ：问题不能只停留在抽象层⾯。⼈们担⼼就业和经济，也担⼼数据中⼼对社

区与环境的影响；还有⽹络攻击、⽣物安全、⾃由社会、美国的技术领导⼒，以及当 AI 越来越强
时，⼈类如何继续控制它。每⼀类问题都有不同细节，但它们有⼀个共同点：技术带来的繁荣
必须⼴泛分布，能⼒也不能只掌握在少数内部参与者⼿中。
Meta 进⼊⼀个地区建设数据中⼼，实际上是在承诺未来⼏⼗年持续投资。这样的⻓期投⼊可以
为社区带来税收、就业和其他资源。⽐如在路易斯安那州，相关税收曾为当地教师提供每⼈ 5 万
美元的奖⾦。市场上也有另⼀类项⽬：有些公司只想先拿下⼀块地，再卖给⼤型 AI 研究机构。
它们并不打算⻓期运营，也没有动⼒认真处理与当地社区的关系。我不确定是否该把这种现象
称为泡沫，因为 “ 泡沫 ” 意味着估值过⾼。但这个领域确实正在经历⼀轮热潮，也因此容易滋⽣短
期逐利的⾏为。如果项⽬只顾眼前交易，社区反对并不奇怪。AI 基础设施如果不能创造就业、
扩⼤社会整体繁荣，也不能让当地社区受益，就不可能⽆限扩张。因此，让利益⼴泛分布不是
附加条件，⽽是⾏业能够持续发展的前提。技术要可⾏，社会层⾯也必须可⾏。

Meta 推出了 America's Workforce Academy ，原因很实际：建设数据中⼼需要⼤量光纤技术⼈
员、电⼯、⾼级⽊⼯等技术⼯⼈，⽽市场上远远不够。未来可能还需要数⼗万甚⾄数百万⼈。
我们保证，完成培训的⼈能够在参与 Meta 基础设施建设的单位找到⼯作。这不是单纯的慈善，
⽽是⻓期利益⼀致： Meta 需要熟练⼯⼈，参与者需要新的职业机会。若企业只是建设⼀个项⽬
后转⼿，就不会进⾏这种投⼊。

### Page 3

Muse 不只回答问题，还要围绕⽤⼾的⻓期⽬标持续执⾏任务
Alex Heath ：你⼤约⼀年前开始谈「个⼈超级智能」。当时很多⼈想知道，你究竟看到了什么。
现在看来，答案就是 Muse 。为什么你认为它会成为 Meta 的下⼀阶段？
Mark Zuckerberg ：我们从未只把 Meta 看成⼀家社交媒体公司。公司的⻓期主题是连接⼈与赋
予个⼈能⼒。过去围绕内容管理发⽣的很多争论，实质上也在讨论：⼈们能不能⾃⼰决定什么
对⽣活重要，并按照⾃⼰的判断交流。
这段经历强化了我的⼀个认识：历史上的许多进步，都来⾃个⼈获得更多能⼒，⽽且⼈们最清
楚⾃⼰的⽣活需要什么。因此，每当有⼈说应该由少数专家决定 AI 去解决哪些⼤问题，我都会本
能地保持警惕。⼈们当然关⼼健康和⽣活质量，但也关⼼家⼈、朋友、关系和⽂化。对科学家
或⼯程师⽽⾔不够宏⼤的问题，对某个⼈可能极其重要。
即使在健康领域，个⼈关注的重点也可能与⾏业不同。制药和⽣物技术⾏业⽬前主要关注常⻅
疾病，但还有⼤量不同的罕⻅疾病和健康问题，相关投⼊明显不⾜。如果你患有某种罕⻅病，

⾃然会希望⾃⼰的 AI 关注它，⽽不是仅仅因为另⼀种病更常⻅，就把资源⽤在别处。
Alex Heath ：你也通过⾃⼰的基⾦会在这⽅⾯投⼊了很多。
Mark Zuckerberg ：我们正在通过 Biohub 开展这⽅⾯的⼯作，这些经历也在⼀定程度上影响了
我的看法。我认为，⼈们应该有能⼒⾃⼰决定什么最重要。对我来说， Muse 也不只处理宏⼤任
务。我希望它帮助我成为更好的⽗亲、丈夫和朋友。我的三岁⼥⼉喜欢烘焙，但我对此⼀⽆所
知。
我让 Muse 每个周末准备⼀个适合三岁孩⼦、也适合不会烘焙的成年⼈完成的项⽬，并通过
Instacart 备⻬原料。做完后，我再告诉它哪些步骤太难，它会据此调整下⼀次安排。事实证明，
蛋糕棒并不适合作为⼊⻔项⽬。我的⼤⼥⼉喜欢登⼭，有些路线需要抢许可证。 Muse 会等待开
放时间并替我申请，拿到后告诉我具体⽇期，我再安排休假陪她去。
它也会关注我的训练。我在综合格⽃训练室安装了摄像头，让 Muse 分析视频并提出意⻅，有时
它会很直⽩地指出我在哪个动作中明显放弃了。早期测试者的使⽤⽅式差异很⼤。有⼈拿到

Muse 后，不到⼀天就开始⽤它协助安排孩⼦的居家教育；有⼈在 12 ⼩时内⽤它规划完整旅⾏；
还有⼀位原本对科技很怀疑的测试者，⼏天后最关⼼的问题却是正式发布时能不能保留已经了
解她的 Muse 。
Muse 与 Meta AI 、 ChatGPT 或 Gemini 式的⼀问⼀答不同。⽤⼾交给它的不是单个提⽰词，⽽是
⼀个项⽬或⻓期⽬标。后台的虚拟机让它能够操作计算机、登录服务并持续执⾏任务；它会围
绕这些⽬标全天候持续⼯作，直到帮助⽤⼾实现⽬标。夜间，它还会整理当天的反思并写⼊记
忆，也能够主动建议新的项⽬。
例如，我让它为我和⼥⼉玩的《⽂明》制作攻略。完成后，它⼜建议把攻略扩展成讲解不同⽂
明历史的学习材料，并直接在应⽤⾥增加了⼀个⻚⾯。许多⼈不知道应该怎样使⽤ AI ；如果 AI
Agent 能够主动提出对⽤⼾有帮助的事情，就能降低这道⻔槛。
Alex Heath ：你认为它真的能替⽤⼾赚钱？
Mark Zuckerberg ：能。⽤⼾可以选择付费订阅，但 Meta ⼀开始也会提供每周 1 亿 token 和⼀台

虚拟机的免费额度。我们的判断是，当个⼈⽤它经营⼩企业、完成商业任务或参与交易时，它
创造和节省的价值⾜以覆盖成本。

### Page 4

⻓期来看，我们预计可以从相关交易中收取很⼩⽐例的费⽤，⽽且不⼀定由⽤⼾⽀付，也可以
由与⽤⼾开展交易的商家承担。我们希望绝⼤多数⼈都能免费使⽤这项服务。要让每个⼈都拥
有强⼤的个⼈ AI Agent ，⾸先就得让他们⽤得起。因此，我们愿意先提供⼤量免费⽤量，因为我
们相信，它能帮⽤⼾赚钱、帮⽤⼾省钱，从⽽抵消使⽤它的成本。
我们正在与 Stripe 合作，为 Muse 接⼊⽀付功能。你可以选择把 Muse 连接到需要的服务，包括
Meta 的服务，但不愿意连接也完全可以。如果⽤它经营业务，你可以授权它接⼊我们的⼴告系
统，让它协助制作产品、运营业务，并把这些⼯作串联起来，全天候持续执⾏。 Meta ⽬前⼤约
每⽉发布⼀次重要模型更新，因此 Muse 的能⼒也会随之提⾼。
Alex Heath ：团队还提到，不同⽤⼾的 Muse 可以从其他 Agent 积累的匿名化经验中学习。这种
学习机制带来的⽹络效应，会不会成为 Meta 的核⼼优势？
Mark Zuckerberg ：⾏业⽬前⼤多把 AI Agent 当成单⼈产品，但多个 Agent 之间还会出现很多新

的协作⽅式。这类能⼒⼤多不会随当前版本推出，但从⻓远看，随着你认识的⼈越来越多地使
⽤ Muse ，它就能通过 Agent 之间的互动，为你提供更好的体验。 Meta 还有⼏项不同优势。我们
从底层设计模型，让它适合个⼈ AI Agent ；我们也有很强的社交产品经验，会更重视它如何帮助
⼈改善关系。
⽹络效应固然重要，但市场不会只有⼀种需求。帮助⽤⼾经营⼩企业的最佳 Agent ，未必也是处
理⼈际关系最好的 Agent 。具备⾜够技术实⼒、能在个⼈ AI Agent 领域做到最先进⽔平的公司，
可能不会超过⼗⼆家。不过，不同公司仍然可以在不同⽤途上做到最好。 Meta 擅⻓把经过验证
的消费产品推⼴给数亿乃⾄数⼗亿⽤⼾。Muse 和 Meta AI ⽬前侧重点不同： Muse 更倾向于从⼀
句话中理解⽤⼾的⻓期意图，并继续推进任务； Meta AI 更适合⽴即回答⼀个明确问题。两者未
来是否会合并，现在还不能确定。
为了让⽤⼾放⼼接⼊私⼈信息， Meta 如何设计 Muse 的隐私与权限保护

Mark Zuckerberg ：个⼈ AI Agent 要真正有⽤，不只需要前沿能⼒，还必须充分理解⽤⼾。⼈
们可能会把邮件、消息、⼴告账⼾、健康信息和其他私⼈资料接⼊ Muse ；只有对系统有很⾼信
任，⽤⼾才会这样做。
Meta 过去⼗多年建设 WhatsApp 端到端加密系统，最重要的经验是：系统可以被设计成连 Meta
也⽆法读取⽤⼾消息。这既降低政府或⿊客获取内容的⻛险，也防⽌ Meta 内部⼈员滥⽤信息。
我们邀请 Signal 创始⼈ Moxie Marlinspike 加⼊团队。他在 2014 年曾协助建设 WhatsApp 加密，这
次专⻔负责 Muse 的机密虚拟机。
我们的⽬标是让⽤⼾把信息保存在云端的个⼈虚拟机中，并通过技术⼿段保证，连 Meta 也⽆法
读取其中的内容，⽽且这⼀承诺可以被技术验证。随着这项功能准备向更多⽤⼾开放，我们会
在未来⼏周公布更多细节。在它准备就绪之前，以及对于不选择使⽤它的⽤⼾， Muse 也会提供
其他安全保护措施。
⼀种最直接的隐私⽅案，是让每个⼈买⼀台 Mac Studio ，把 Agent 放在家⾥运⾏。但不可能有数

⼗亿⼈购买设备、安装软件并⾃⾏维护。 Muse 希望提供⼀种任何技术⽔平的家庭成员都能直接
使⽤的服务：它像本地机器⼀样私密，却可以在云端⾃动开通和运⾏。
机密虚拟机并不是全部。 Muse 还设有安全凭据存储系统，⽤来保存信⽤卡信息、密码和⼀次性
卡号，避免这些敏感信息直接暴露给核⼼ Agent ；当⽤⼾要求它登录或付款时， Agent 只能在必
要时调⽤这些凭据。系统还运⾏⼀组监控 Agent ，检查进⼊和离开虚拟机的流量。它们会识别提
⽰词注⼊，判断 Muse 是否准备把⽤⼾可能不愿公开的信息传出去，并在必要时触发⼈⼯确认。

### Page 5

登录、付款和传递敏感信息通常都需要⽤⼾批准。⽤⼾可以把某⼀类操作设为⻓期允许，但
Muse 不能⾃⾏扩⼤权限。连接邮箱时同样遵循 “ 最⼩权限 ” 原则。如果⽤⼾希望它发送邮件，就
应针对这项操作明确授权，⽽不是⼀接⼊邮箱就让它获得全部权限。每⼀步只获得完成当前任
务所需的最低权限，⽽不是⼀次授权全部能⼒。
这些设计也是 Meta 认为⾃⼰能在个⼈ AI Agent 市场形成差异的原因。个⼈ Agent 不仅要了解⽤
⼾，还要具备分⼨感。例如，它知道你怀孕了，预订餐厅时就可以帮你寻找提供优质⽆酒精鸡
尾酒的地⽅，但不必向餐厅解释你怀孕了。它需要在不反复询问你的情况下，判断哪些信息属
于敏感内容，既帮你实现⽬标，也避免透露不必要的个⼈信息。
在我看来，要做好这类能⼒，不能只是拿⼀个现成模型稍作后训练，⽽要从⼀开始就围绕个⼈
Agent 的需求设计模型，并把相关数据纳⼊预训练。就像做好 Instagram 信息流，需要同时建设
应⽤、基础设施、机器学习系统和芯⽚⼀样，这是⼀项需要各个环节共同配合的⼯作。

Llama 4 偏离预期后， Meta ⽤更⼩的核⼼团队和更⼤算⼒重建 AI 研究
Alex Heath ：SemiAnalysis 在 7 ⽉的⼀篇⽂章中认为， Meta 最有可能追上 OpenAI 和 Anthropic ，
衡量 Meta Superintelligence Labs 时应该看进步速度，⽽不只是当前起点。 Artificial Analysis 最
近的图表也显⽰ Muse Spark 进展很快。你去年重建研究团队后，内部究竟发⽣了什么？
Mark Zuckerberg ：Meta ⻓期以来就在机器学习领域领先。 Facebook 和 Instagram 的信息流、
⼴告系统，以及识别和处理不适宜内容的安全系统，本质上都是⼤规模机器学习系统。⼤语⾔
模型兴起后， FAIR 完成了 Llama 的早期研究，但我们还需要把研究转化为⼯业化流程，并按照
规模定律扩⼤模型。
我当时犯的错误，是以为 Meta 既然擅⻓其他机器学习系统，开发和扩展⼤语⾔模型的⽅法也会
相似。实际上，两者的运⾏规律有很⼤差别。 Llama 3 是⼀个不错的模型，但 Llama 4 发布时已

经偏离我们需要的进步轨迹，这意味着必须改变⽅法。
我由此更重视⼈才密度。前沿模型研究并不是让⼀千个⼈各⾃运⾏实验就能解决的问题。更理
想的状态，是由⼀⽀规模尽可能⼩、成员能够在头脑中把握整个系统的顶尖团队，围绕同⼀个
科研项⽬紧密协作。当团队席位有限时，每⼀个位置都必须尽量找到最好的⼈。
因此，我投⼊了⼤量个⼈时间招聘，也让⾃⼰在技术上更接近⼀线⼯作，以便真正理解问题并
指导公司。研究团队就设在我办公室周围。随着研究质量提⾼，我们也显著增加算⼒投资，正
在建设数吉⽡规模的基础设施。 Meta 拥有⼏⼗年的数据中⼼经验，也有盈利能⼒⽀撑这种⻓期
投⼊。
过去⼀年， Meta 重新启动研究计划，位于俄亥俄州的吉⽡级 Prometheus 集群已经上线，并开始
⽤于扩展 “Watermelon” 之后的模型。 Watermelon 也即将发布。它的规模更⼤，预训练⽔平也有
显著提升，我们还会继续把在后训练中积累的经验应⽤到它上⾯。
此前发布的 Muse Spark 1.3 ，则来⾃内部代号为 Avocado 的⼀次相对较⼩规模的预训练。 Meta

不会满⾜于跟在前沿之后。我们是⼀家端到端技术公司，即使过去主要建设社交应⽤，也从未
只做应⽤层，⽽是同时建设数据中⼼、芯⽚和基础设施。
未来体验中最关键的部分会是模型，因此我们必须⾃⼰站在前沿。模型能⼒不是⼀个单⼀榜
单。编码等能⼒具有普遍价值，因为许多个⼈ AI Agent 任务最终都要⽣成软件： Muse 分析综合
格⽃视频的流程是⼀个编码项⽬，替⽤⼾制作可以投屏的《危险边缘》游戏也是如此。

### Page 6

但 Meta 也会重点研究其他机构未必同等重视的能⼒，例如个⼈ Agent 在与外界交互时，如何判断
哪些信息可以使⽤、哪些不能披露。我们也⾮常重视编码能⼒和递归改进，因为后者对持续保
持前沿⽔平很重要。因此，我们的研究⽅向有⼀部分与其他实验室重合，也有⼀些不同的侧重
点。
从模型安全到智能眼镜和⻘少年保护，技术扩散必须与明确边界同⾏
Alex Heath ：如果未来模型出现你认为不安全的能⼒， Meta 会不会也选择暂缓发布？
Mark Zuckerberg ：安全⾸先应当进⼊设计和训练过程。⽬前，各家研究机构都在遇到模型钻
奖励机制空⼦的问题，也就是 reward hacking ：模型得到⼀道编程任务后，已经聪明到会先理解
整个运⾏环境。有时它发现，修改虚拟机配置⽐真正解决程序问题更容易，于是通过改变环境
获得奖励，却没有学到训练者希望它掌握的能⼒。
Alex Heath ：听起来，你们不是这样训练模型的？你不认同这种训练⽅式吗？
Mark Zuckerberg ：不是，我认为⼤家基本都采⽤这种训练⽅式。我的意思是，需要在训练过

程中设⽴清楚⽽坚定的边界。这在⼀定程度上像教育孩⼦，但这个类⽐也不能过度延伸。安全
边界如果太弱，模型就会钻空⼦；边界⾜够明确，既能让它学习课程本⾝，也能逐渐形成更合
适的⾏为⽅式。训练结束后，还要回答强⼤模型怎样对社会产⽣积极影响。
我仍然认为，应该让更多⼈分享机会，并⽤⼴泛分布的权⼒形成制衡。若只有⼀个⼈拥有超级
智能律师，他可能赢得本不该赢的诉讼；如果每个⼈都有同样强的法律⼯具，低质量论点就更
难蒙混过关，司法过程反⽽可能更⾼效、更公平。
Alex Heath ：政府应该扮演什么⻆⾊？
Mark Zuckerberg ：AI 变化太快，固定规则很容易滞后。更有效的做法，是让企业与监管⽅保
持⾜够透明的沟通，让外部了解重要训练任务和即将出现的能⼒，并提前准备⽹络安全、⽣物
安全等不同⻛险。对我来说，关键不是设计⼀套很快过时的流程，⽽是建⽴持续的知识交流和
可信对话。
Alex Heath ：Meta 智能眼镜正在进⼊主流，同时也出现了 “ 它会被拿来偷拍 ” 的担忧。⼀些场所
甚⾄禁⽌佩戴。你怎么看？

Mark Zuckerberg ：我们从第⼀代产品开始就把隐私要求写进设计：只要摄像头录像，镜框上
的指⽰灯就会明显闪烁；如果⽤⼾试图破坏指⽰灯，系统更新会直接让摄像头失效。⼿机录像
并没有这样的提⽰灯，从这⼀点看，眼镜反⽽更透明。
问题在于，产品刚发布时 Meta 解释过这些措施，但当时⽤⼾很少。如今已有数百万⼈使⽤，许
多⼈没有听过早期说明。我们后来更多强调外观、款式和功能，却没有持续解释隐私设计。社
交媒体的发展也给了我⼀个教训：仅仅看到⼈们继续使⽤产品，并不等于他们理解公司怎样处
理⻛险。如果更早、更直接地说明这些问题，公众今天对社交媒体的看法或许会不同。
Alex Heath ：这与 Meta 最近就⻘少年安全问题达成的和解有没有关联？
Mark Zuckerberg ：Meta 很早就在 Instagram 推进⻘少年账⼾保护。和解的重要⽬标，是为整个
⾏业建⽴共同标准。⽐如，把⻘少年每天使⽤时间限制在⼀⼩时，单家公司原则上可以接受；
但如果 Instagram 单⽅⾯限制，⽽⽤⼾随后把同样时间转移到 TikTok ，就没有真正改善⻘少年处

境，只是让⼀家公司的竞争位置受损。

### Page 7

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
24 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
1 条评论
正在加载 .
Meta 希望推动统⼀的⻘少年保护⾏业标准，例如围绕使⽤时⻓、通知、上课和睡眠时间设置限
制。这样可以避免单⼀平台率先⾃律却让⽤⼾转移到其他平台，也能让各家公司在⼀致框架下
共同保护⻘少年。
本⽂来源：Z Finance
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论

---
## Document 578: 投資策略週報：分批佈局股債，力抗9月魔咒

Source PDF: all report pdf/投資策略週報：分批佈局股債，力抗9月魔咒.pdf
Report source: Fubon
Date: 2026-09-14
Pages: 22
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

1
投資策略週報
分批佈局股債，力抗9月魔咒
投資研究部
2026/9/14-2026/9/18

### Page 2

報告大綱
2
投資策略
市場訊息
總體經濟
外匯市場
3
6
債券市場
股票市場
機會市場與總結
商品地圖與產品
19
24
7
5
9
11

### Page 3

3
震盪不失為佈局良機，股市回檔應勇敢進場
投
資
策
略
市場展望投資策略
 逢利率回彈，擇優配置高息投等債：AI基建題材推動科
技投等債發債量提升，目前美國科技、通訊投等債高於
公司債平均殖利率，鎖定高票息與現金流穩健科技巨頭，
而若想均衡資產配置可佈局投等債ETF。(詳見Page 9)
 科技與非科技產業要分散佈局，收穫美股成長果實：觀
察費半雖近期指數回落但分析指出AI派對尚未結束，科
技具長線投資價值但波動度高，分散佈局原物料、能源
或非必需消費類股享類股輪動機會。(詳見Page 14-17)
 看好台韓中，分批配置切入全球供應鏈廠商： 台韓中廠
商深度參與全球 AI基礎建設或科技產品供應鏈佈局 ，股
價若回檔可分批佈局至市佔率高的亞洲 AI晶片、伺服器，
光通訊、電池、手機等廠商。(詳見Page 11-13)
 匯市展望：美國數據強勁推高聯準會升息預期 ，財政部
國債回購規模低於市場預期 ，地緣政治風險使美元指數
下方具支撐，然日銀利率緊縮預期以及後續日銀政策正
常化牽制美元上行空間。預期美元指數在98.5至99.5。

 債市展望：近期美國就業 、生產數據強勁 ，中東局勢支
持油價高檔震盪 ，持續為通膨帶來壓力 ，而核心CPI略
高於預期，進一步帶動9/11利率期貨市場預期9月升息1
碼機率88%，預期10年美債殖利率在4.80至5.10%間。
 股市展望： 美債殖利率近 5%，高殖利率或壓抑股市估
值，9月聯準會高升息預期為股市埋下不確定性 ，歷史
上9月標普易出現技術性回檔 ，然AI支出和獲利提供結
構性支撐，回檔應進場佈局，預期標普在7,500至7,750 。

### Page 4

高美債殖利率，股債匯震盪
4
圖表解讀
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/11
圖表解讀
➢ 中東緊張局勢加劇引發對全球能源供應擔憂 ，油價走
高使市場對聯準會政策預期更加鷹派 ，加上近期美國
數據強勁造成通膨具僵固性 ，市場預期9月聯準會高機
率升息 ，美債市場拋售潮湧現 。債市方面建議迴避長
天期標的降低利率波動風險 ，並逢殖利率回彈時鎖定
高票息、現金流穩定投資等級債分批進行佈局。
➢ 美債近5%高殖利率壓抑股市估值 ，歷史上9月標普易
出現技術性回檔 ，然分析指出 AI投資週期仍處於擴張
階段，企業資本支出與獲利成長趨勢未見明顯反轉 ，
高殖利率環境反而提供優質股債分批佈局機會 ，股市
建議在未破前低下可進場佈局 AI相關題材 ，同時在股
市高檔時應分散類股配置享類股輪動機會。
➢ 後續殖利率走勢取決於經濟成長 、通膨及聯準會政策
預期，近期非美央行貨幣政策緊縮或將與美國利差收
斂，牽制美元指數上行但下方仍獲地緣政治風險支撐 。
油價大漲，推高美債殖利率
美債10年殖利率(L)

標普500(R)
美元指數(R)
%
投
資
策
略

### Page 5

AI巨頭軍備競賽續增溫，AI應用市場再擴大
5
市
場
訊
息
頭條新聞
1. 美國財長 Bessent自稱莊家 ，強調干預日圓時充分掌握
日本當局和日本央行動向等政策資訊不對稱優勢 。美日
聯手干預外匯支撐日圓且美方持續推動日本央行升息 ，
最新警告日圓空頭言論 ，暗示拉抬日圓還有進一步動作 。
2. 全球礦場供應吃緊和美國潛在關稅憂慮 ，使買家搶購銅
礦，帶動倫敦金屬交易所銅期貨價格飆高 ，過去12個月
銅價漲約 5成，反映市場押注銅礦長期需求熱絡 ，電力
網路、AI、資料中心、電動車和能源轉型刺激銅礦需求 。
3. 美伊恢復攻擊行動 ，經荷姆茲海峽石油運輸量下滑 。高
盛認為若美伊衝突加劇 ，能源市場面臨供應中斷風險 ，
國際油價可能飆升至每桶 120美元，建議投資人佈局天
然氣和柴油等成品油 ，以掌握能源價格可能的上漲行情 。
產業訊息
1. 資策會分析科技巨頭和各國政府擴大 AI基礎建設 ，關鍵
零組件HBM/DRAM、ABF載板和CCL供需吃緊至2028年。
AI點燃AI Box、Agent PC、移動機器人和AI眼鏡，四大

終端產品商機2028年均可望有百億級美元的市場規模。
2. 蘋果秋季新品秀登場，推出首款摺疊機並把Siri AI從手機
導入至耳機 、手錶。高階手機新品產品價格調升 ，並搭
載台積電2奈米製程A20 Pro晶片為全球首款採用台積電
最新製程技術手機，蘋果供應鏈亦受惠。(詳見Page 14)
3. 輝達黃仁勳在X平台發文讚揚OpenAI最新旗艦模型Astra
為AGI的到來 ， 透露 Astra 訓 練 使 用 超 過10 萬顆 Grace
Blackwell GPU，凸顯開發尖端AI模型所需龐大運算資源，
並預告下一批將有 40萬顆GPU上線，顯示AI巨頭算力軍
備競賽持續升溫，新一輪資料中心擴建潮可望延續。
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 6

關注本週美日央行會議決策
6
重點提醒
➢ 美國8月非農就業、生產數據強勁，CPI符合預期且數據
公布後Fedwatch升息1碼機率從69%上升至近87%，美
銀預期通膨具韌性支持9月聯準會升息。
➢ 租金和工資推高服務業價格 ，8月東京CPI高於預期 ，8
月全國CPI偏上行將強化日銀升息動機 ，9/11利率期貨
市場預期9月升息1碼機率97%，12月再升1碼機率67%。
➢ 美國近期就業強勁且7月受亞馬遜Prime Day高基期而放
緩影響不再 ，8月零售銷售動能反彈 。中國政治局指示
加快財政支出，提供消費補貼或將挹注後續零售動能。
➢ 美國油氣鑽探活動活躍且延續高產能利用率 ，帶動8月
工業生產動能 。AI相關技術生產將仍挹注中國工業生產
動能，然延續性待政府政策推動 。衡量日本民間設備投
資領先指標機器訂單受惠製造業需求而持續增長。
央行利率政策及談話
重要經濟數據
日期 國家 數據 前期 市調
9/15 中國 8月零售銷售(年增) 0.6% 0.8%
9/15 中國 8月工業生產(年增) 4.5% 4.8%

9/16 美國 8月零售銷售(月增) -0.6% 0.9%
9/16 日本 7月核心機器訂單(年增) 16.9% 9.6%
9/17 美國 9/12首次申請失業金人數 206K -
9/18 美國 8月工業生產(月增) 0.2% 0.3%
9/18 日本 8月全國CPI(年增) 1.9% 2.0%
資料來源：Bloomberg， 2026/9/11
總
體
經
濟
日期 國家 事件 前期 市調
9/17 美國 利率決策會議 3.50% 3.75%
9/18 日本 利率決策會議 1.00% 1.25%

### Page 7

7
數據支持，日圓升息預期濃厚
匯市表現說明
➢ 美元指數：雖中東戰事推升油價且市場對聯準會升息預
期濃厚，但聯準會官員言論分歧，歐洲央行升息收緊利
差，以及美日進一步匯市干預的預期，美元指數下跌。
➢ WTI原油：美國與伊朗在波斯灣的軍事衝突持續升級 ，
荷姆茲海峽正常情況下承擔全球石油及天然氣約 20%貿
易，葉門胡塞武裝亦攻擊沙烏地阿拉伯能源設施 ，市場
擔憂中東局勢將干擾全球能源供應 ，推動油價快速走高。
➢ 日圓：市場猜測日本政府可能再次干預匯市 、日本央行
官員近期明確支持日圓的偏鷹派態度 、經濟數據強勁進
一步支持日銀在 9月升息預期 ，交易員預期日銀總裁 9
月會議將暗示年底前會進一步推動貨幣政策正常化。
➢ 黃金：油價上揚加劇市場對通膨的疑慮 ，提高聯準會最
快本月升息的機率，儘管黃金通常被視為對抗通膨的避
險資產，但利率上升往往會降低不孳息黃金的吸引力。
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/14
單位：%
外
匯
市
場
外匯市場回顧
-0.05
-0.13
1.70

0.04
-0.47
0.00
-0.02
-0.03
-1.83
9.37
-0.55
0.22
3.78
-0.08
0.96
0.56
0.05
2.02
-0.87
24.44
-5 0 5 10 15 20 25 30
美元指數
歐元
日圓
英鎊
澳幣
人民幣(離岸)
港幣
新台幣
黃金
WTI原油
過去一週 過去1個月

### Page 8

日銀例會在即，支持短期日圓走強
8
圖表解讀
外
匯
市
場
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/8
圖表解讀
➢ 8月底日本財務省外匯存底 1.208兆美元 ，月減6.18%，
減幅創歷來新高 ，因7/30~8/26日本財務省動用 15.4
兆日圓干預措施以及殖利率上升導致政府公債價值跌
落。近期日圓反彈 ，市場推測可能因匯率檢查 ，被市
場視為準備干預匯市的前奏。
➢ 日銀官員近日釋出鷹派訊號，Q2GDP較初估值1.1%上
修1.4%、日本7月名目現金薪資年增 4.7%，創1997年
以來最大升幅，進一步強化市場對9月例會升息預期。
高市經濟顧問會田卓司預測日銀後續將加快升息速度 ，
被解讀為鴿派立場高市政府凝聚以升息抑制貶值的共
識，9/11利率期貨市場預期 12月有67%機率再升 1碼。
➢ 此外，日本政府年金投資基金 GPIF可能增加國內資產
配置比重 ，小摩估若股債均拉高至配置上限 31%則共
有33.8兆日圓潛在買盤投入市場 。日圓干預風險猶存 、
升息預期增溫 ，短線日圓獲支撐 ，後續留意日銀利率

決策會議動向 ，預期本週日圓在 152-156間震盪走升 。
經濟具韌性，美實質利率處高檔
美日利差(L)
日圓走勢(R)
日本外匯存底(R)
*近年干預紀錄：2026年7-8月、2024年4-7月、2022年9-10月。
日本外匯干預期間% 10億美元

### Page 9

9
債市表現說明
➢ 美國公債：美國 580億美元3年期、390億美元10年期和
220億美元30年期國債招標穩健，中標殖利率低於發行前
交易水準 。然因8月核心CPI數據高於預期 、中東衝突推
升油價 ，升息預期濃厚 ，加上企業債發債的供應壓力 ，
美債市場陷入拋售潮，長天期債券跌勢較為顯著。
➢ 美國投等債：各產業債報酬普遍下跌 ，其中科技 、金融
公司產業債跌勢較輕 。目前美國投等債殖利率超過 5.5%，
其中通訊 、金融公司 、保險、科技、公用事業和能源產
業殖利率高於平均，建議逢利率回彈時分批佈局。
➢ 美國非投等債：美國各產業非投等債報酬普遍下跌 ，其
中科技 、能源、銀行產業跌勢較輕 ，目前美國整體非投
等債殖利率超過 7%，而在通訊 、運輸和科技產業殖利率
在8%以上，相對其他產業債殖利率水準較高。
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/14
債券市場回顧 單位：%
債
券
市
場
通膨與供給潮，壓抑債市表現
-0.77
-0.93
-0.90
-0.93
-0.93

-0.57
-0.54
-0.56
-0.63
-0.81
-0.57
-0.68
-1.07
-1.06
-1.05
-1.52
-0.62
-0.57
-0.88
-0.73
-0.98
0.11
-2.0 -1.5 -1.0 -0.5 0.0 0.5
全球債券
美國公債
全球投資級債
美國投資級債
歐洲投資級債
全球非投等債
美國非投等債
歐洲非投等債
新興市場非投等債
新興市場美元債
新興市場當地債
過去一週 過去1個月

### Page 10

科技投等債看增，高殖利率具吸引力
10
目前投等債信用利差仍相對窄
圖表解讀
➢ 儘管美國公債殖利率攀升 ，然企業寧可在目前偏高的
利率環境 ，趁著信用利差仍窄時發債 ，而不願在未來
債券供給將持續增加的預期下 ，承擔借貸成本更貴或
更難預測的風險 ，促使更多公司提前進行融資計畫 。
根據彭博調查，交易商預估9月美國投資級公司債發行
量將創同期新高達到 2,150至2,500億美元 ，而高盛則
預期2026年投等債發債量達2.3兆美元。
➢ AI基建題材下推動科技相關 (科技+通訊業)投等債發債
量逐年提升，今年前8月科技投等債超過去年全年發債
量。目前美國投資級公司債平均殖利率突破 5.5%，科
技、通訊投等債高於平均水準 ，建議擇優挑選資本支
出高但市場高度認可獲利能力的科技巨頭債券 ，以鎖
定高票息與穩健現金流 ，而若想均衡配置資產降低資
產波動度，亦可佈局於iShares投等債ETF(LQD)。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/9/10
債
券
市
場
科技相關投資等級債發債量看增

%
百萬美元
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
0
100000
200000
300000
2023 2024 2025 2026/1~8
科技 通訊
25
75
125
175
225
2022/1 2023/1 2024/1 2025/1 2026/1
科技 通訊 投等債

### Page 11

11
股市表現說明
➢ 標普：中東衝突升溫推高油價加深市場對通膨與聯準會
升息疑慮而下跌，美國財政部公布長天期公債回購規模
低於市場期待，高殖利率抑制股市表現，能源指數領漲。
➢ 費半指數：雖標普科技股下跌但個股表現分化 。英特爾，
傳調漲中央處理器價格最高達10%並獲券商上調投資評
等帶動市場樂觀預期 。高通與 AWS合作多世代客製化
AI晶片，並透過認股權證引入亞馬遜為潛在投資人。
➢ 韓國KOSPI：機械指數受惠AI題材領漲大盤。KB證券報
告指出，隨AI基建投資持續擴大 ，到Q3三星電子和 SK
海力士記憶體庫存已降至不到 10天，明年可能上演史
詩級斷貨。高盛重申對KOSPI目標價12,000點不變。
➢ 能源指數：美國與委內瑞拉達成石油協議 ，取得當地
17處油田約650億桶石油儲量的控制權 ，美國墨西哥灣
沿岸煉油商與油田服務業者將可望受惠。
股
票
市
場
資料來源：Bloomberg，2026/9/10
股票市場回顧 單位：%
標普下跌，能源指數撐盤
*本頁面公司名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

-0.99
-0.80
0.76
-1.06
-1.55
-0.50
-0.01
-0.83
-3.30
-2.27
-3.12
3.33
-0.79
-0.19
-1.22
2.03
-2.71
-1.83
-1.65
-4.78
-3.28
-6.84
0.51
7.29
-3.34
-1.24
-4.14
3.82
-4.17
0.82
-0.59
-3.48
4.85
-2.38
-8 -6 -4 -2 0 2 4 6 8
MSCI世界
標普500
費半指數
道瓊歐盟50
日經225
MSCI新亞
MSCI拉美
滬深300
恆生指數
印度Sensex
越南指數
南韓Kospi指數
台灣加權
標普科技指數
標普非必需消費
標普能源指數
標普原物料指數
過去一週 過去1個月

### Page 12

中國廠光模組代工產能具全球規模優勢
12
股
票
市
場
圖表解讀
➢ 高盛基於雲端公司資本開支 ，預期2026至2028年全球
光模組市場規模分別達到 677億美元、1,314億美元及
1,485億美元 ，較先前預測調高 33%、81%及115%，
顯示市場邁入高速網路與價值提升的黃金周期。
➢ 受惠於華為 、騰訊、阿里等中國本土雲端巨頭資本支
出擴張 ，加上全球的 AI資料中心光互連高度仰賴中國
模組製造 、封裝與測試能力 ，中國廠在全球市佔率領
先。機構估今年全球光模組廠商代工產能中國佔 56%，
其中以中際旭創 (300308.SZ)、新易盛 (300502.SZ)、
劍橋科技(603083.SS)等大廠即佔全球產能約46%。
➢ 近期中際旭創等多家中國光通訊業者於法說上訂單展
望已看到2027年，且預期景氣將可望持續至 2028年。
中國廠掌握全球光模組代工產能在 AI資料中心供應鏈
中具規模優勢 ，參考Invesco中國科技股 ETF(CQQQ)。
資料來源：GS, 2026/9/7、 TrendForce, 2026/8/12

高盛上調全球光模組市場規模
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
0
500
1000
1500
2000
2026 2027 2028
全球光模組市場規模(億美元)
2026年全球光模組代工製造版圖(%)
中國, 56
美國,
19
其他, 25

### Page 13

韓國廠在中系為主的電池產業殺出重圍
13
圖表解讀
➢ 韓國研究機構 SNE Research數據顯示 2026年1至7
月全球動力電池裝車總量年增 20.4%至725.2GWh，
其中韓系電池領頭羊 LG能源排名第三 ，韓國三大廠
(LG能源、SK On、三星SDI)全球市佔率13~14%。
➢ 隨韓廠事業結構多元化 ，拓展至儲能系統 、資料中
心用不斷電系統與電池備援單元等非電動車領域策
略，韓國電池三雄近期業績反彈。像三星SDI目標次
世代技術全固態電池於 2027年下半年量產 ，而擁有
硫化物基固體電解質專利與技術的美國新創廠 Solid
Power技轉SK On，並輸出材料與三星SDI合作生產。
➢ 中國電池廠擴張受美國通膨削減法案IRA與歐盟碳排
規範防堵 ，相比韓國電池廠與歐美車廠間長期合作
以及完善綠色管理體系 (與回收商建立循環供應鏈 )
而享歐美市場准入優勢 ，LG能源符合美國通膨削減
法取得先進製造生產稅額抵免等 。韓國三大電池廠
和相關企業可關注iShares MSCI南韓ETF(EWY)。

資料來源：SNE研究, 2026/9/7
股
票
市
場
韓國電池廠全球市佔率約15%
今年前7個月全球動力電池裝車量年增20%
0
100
200
300
2026/1~7全球動力電池裝車量(GWh)
0
500
1000
1500
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026/1~7
全球EV電池安裝趨勢(GWh)
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

### Page 14

記憶體價格飆，高階旗艦手機或具韌性
14
蘋果新機亮相，挹注全球摺疊機出貨增長
股
票
市
場
資料來源： IDC、科技新報, 2026/9/7
圖表解讀
➢ 蘋果秋季發表會是新任執行長 Ternus首秀，同時產品
形態也迎來十年最大變革 。亮點為首款摺疊機 iPhone
Duo登場、iPhone搭載台積電 2nm製程A20 Pro晶片、
新版Siri AI導入AirPods和Apple Watch等。
➢ 在記憶體價格飆漲壓抑終端消費需求下 ，全球智慧型
手機市場面臨挑戰 ，此次iPhone產品線進一步往高階 、
高單價移動，售價比上代漲100美元，而摺疊機瞄準高
預算、重視科技體驗 、追求品味的旗艦天花板客群 ，
預期iPhone高階旗艦機種與折疊手機表現相對具韌性 。
➢ IDC預計蘋果摺疊機上市首年出貨量將超過 1,000萬支，
助摺疊智慧手機市場擺脫下滑 ，並帶動書本式摺疊機
在全球摺疊機出貨佔比提升至 76%(去年52%)，2026
年全球摺疊手機出貨量增長12.6%至2,290萬支，2027

年增長18%至約2,700萬支且蘋果摺疊機在全球摺疊機
市佔約40%，關注蘋果和其供應鏈的後市表現。
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
摺疊iPhone供應鏈
摺疊面板和蓋
板玻璃
三星顯示、藍思科技(300433.SZ)、康寧(GLW)
軸承與結構件 新日興(3376.TW)、安費諾(APH)、富世達
(6805.TW)
光學、觸控、
生物辨識
大立光(3008.TW)、玉晶光(3406.TW)、GIS-
KY(6456.TW)、宸鴻(3673.TW)
晶片、記憶體、
組裝
台積電(2330.TW)、三星電子(005930.KS)、SK海
力士(000660.KS)、美光(MU.US)、鴻海(2317.TW)
0
1000
2000
3000
2025 2026 2027
非蘋果 蘋果
萬隻

### Page 15

AI派對尚未結束，距泡沫破滅還早
15
圖表解讀
➢ 科技巨頭普遍持續加碼投資以鞏固 AI算力優勢 ，市
場預期今明年資本支出達 9500億、1.4兆美元 ，部
分華爾街憂 AI投資獲利性與回報能力 ，且距離費半
指數6月高點仍低近20%，透露市場憂AI泡沫再起。
➢ Raymond James提出「25法則」，根據美國250年
歷史經驗 ，新技術出現 (如鐵路 、網路熱潮 )時企業
大量發債或印股票籌錢 ，當單一產業吸收相當於經
濟產出量能約 25%投向變革性技術支出 ，使資金高
度集中於單一產業 ，導致其他實體經濟因借不到錢 ，
使泡沫承受不住而崩塌 ，然在破滅後仍為經濟和社
會帶來實體和數位基礎建設。
➢ 近兩年美國投入 AI支出約2兆美元(包含2024年至今
買AI 晶片 5,000 億美元 、 晶片運作電力基礎設施
3,500億美元、資料中心建築費2,000億美元)，推估
以 目 前 擴 張 速 度 約 到2030 年 代 初 期 才 會 觸 頂，
Raymond James認為現在距離泡沫破裂還早得很。

資料來源：JPM, 2026/9/2
股
票
市
場
美國科技大廠資本支出預計持續增加
10億美元
*數據包含雲端雲端/新興AI算力運營商(亞馬遜、Google、微軟、
Meta、甲骨文、CoreWeave、Nebius、IREN和SpaceX)
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
經濟體系能消化歷史臨界點為GDP25%支出
期間 背景 美國GDP(億美元/年) 建設項目 投入支出(億美元)
1860年代 鐵路熱潮 100 建置鐵路鐵軌 25
1990年代 網路泡沫 60,000 鋪設光纖網路 15,000
2020年代 全球瘋AI 320,000* AI基礎設施 80,000
*IMF預估今年美國 GDP 規模約 32.38 兆美元，25% 的警戒線約在 8 兆美元

### Page 16

產能受損和運輸受阻，支持能源類股表現
16
圖表解讀
➢ 今年標普能源指數受到中東地緣衝突持續 ，荷姆茲
海峽與波斯灣周邊基礎設施 、油輪及航道受波及 ，
美伊戰況不時升溫 、產能受損和運輸受阻加劇全球
能源供需緊縮預期 ，市場預期高油價水準仍將延續 。
➢ 煉油巨頭瓦勒羅 (VLO)、菲利浦66(PSX)與馬拉松石
油(MPC)，在強勁市場需求與營運強勁推動提煉行
銷指數Q3盈餘分別季增逾 3倍、年增4倍，2026年
盈餘預期年增逾4倍，進而帶動提煉行銷指數今年以
來上漲幅度逾1倍，漲幅領先整體能源類股。
➢ 高油價亦有利探勘生產廠商獲利性擴張 ，短期內若
中東局勢未解 ，高油價延續則將使後續企業盈餘將
具上修空間 ，或將有利類股股價維持熱度 。相關標
的可關注SPDR標普油氣開採與生產ETF(XOP)。
資料來源：Bloomberg, 2026/9/11
股
票
市
場
今年能源指數漲幅領先標普各產業
今年能源類股獲利將創近年相對高
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦

-10
10
30
50
70
90
110
130
標普 能源指數 探勘生產 儲存運輸 提煉行銷 設備服務
年至今 季至今 月至今
%
荷姆茲海峽通行量仍低迷
0
50
100
2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
標普能源股每股盈餘(美元)
0
100
200
2026/1 2026/2 2026/3 2026/4 2026/5 2026/6 2026/7 2026/8 2026/9
荷姆茲海峽商船通行量(艘)

### Page 17

小麥供應趨緊，全球糧食危機恐迫在眉梢
17資料來源：USAD, 2026
股
票
市
場
地緣政治衝突、極端氣候壓抑小麥產銷
全球小麥市場規模持續攀升
圖表解讀
➢ 全球逾35%人口核心主食是小麥 。全球小麥出口龍頭
俄羅斯(佔全球貿易量 1/5)和黑海糧倉烏克蘭近期互襲
出口設施與商業船舶 ，地緣政治惡化致物流嚴重受阻 。
俄羅斯出口商將海運糧食改經鐵路轉往波羅的海港口
(如拉脫維亞 、愛沙尼亞)，然因年處理上限僅約 700萬
噸，無法填補黑海每年4,600萬噸的巨大缺口。
➢ 傳統小麥出口主力歐盟(尤其法國、德國)今年夏季受歷
史性高溫衝擊產量，聖嬰現象導致南半球(澳洲、巴西)
小麥產量大減 。機構預測全球今年秋冬逾 90%機率迎
來極強聖嬰現象 ，引發主食價格上漲 ，消費者轉向其
他地區種植食品 ，推高未經歷極端氣候地區產品價格 。
➢ 大宗商品諮詢機構 Expana展望2026/27年全球主要小
麥出口國的庫存消費比預估將降至 16.4%是歷史數據
中最低水平之一 。當小麥等農產品因糧食緊缺而價格

飆漲，將推升肥料 、農機到跨國糧商等供應鏈利潤 。
相關標的關注Invesco DB農業ETF(DBA)。
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
2008/09-2025/26年全球小麥出口國家份額(%)
1800
2200
2600
2025 2026 2027 2028 2029
小麥市場(億美元)

### Page 18

暑假旺季結束但頂級飯店業股票值得入住
18
圖表解讀
➢ 巴倫周刊看好頂級飯店產業 ，包含萬豪酒店 (MAR)
與希爾頓(HLT)壟斷全球酒店市場優勢未變 ，如萬豪
旗下麗思卡爾頓 、WHotels等高端品牌 ，精準鎖定
無衰退隱憂的富裕族群消費客群 ，萬豪旅享家常客
忠誠計畫近3億會員基礎，於景氣循環時具防禦力。
➢ 萬豪以特許經營模式營運授權品牌獲取加盟費和營
收管理費 ，無需籌錢購地蓋飯店或承擔房產折舊 。
全球儲備客房年增7%至62.9萬間，穩居全球飯店領
先地位，受惠全球差旅需求與飯店定價能力 ，預期
今年旗下所有可供出租房平均營收年增3至3.5%。
➢ 萬豪與摩根大通 、美國運通簽署新的長期信用卡合
作協議 ，到2028年聯名卡授權費將產生每年 1億美
元額外收入 ，先前因地緣衝突導致建築工程延遲亦
逐漸緩解 ，明年盈餘預期雙位數成長 。參考投資標
的是以科技 、醫療、消費為三大投資主軸的富邦富
裕商機多重資產基金。
資料來源：Fortune Insights, 2026/8/17

股
票
市
場
全球高端飯店常客，消費不受景氣循環影響
*本頁面公司、ETF名稱僅為列示，非代表單一個股推薦
全球高端飯店市場規模預期雙位數成長
0
100
200
300
400
萬豪旅享家 希爾頓榮譽客會 洲際酒店IHG優悅會 精選國際酒店集團會員計畫 凱悅天地
全球高端飯店會籍人數(百萬人)
0
1000
2000
3000
4000
5000
2025 2026 2034
全球高端飯店市場規模(億美元)

### Page 19

8月機會市場亮點
19
機
會
市
場
資產別 市場 亮點
股票
市場
美國 AI題材帶動長期產業需求與企業資本支出支撐大盤。今年以來標普趨勢走高，顯示市場面對消息面
震盪時具抗壓與修復能力。即便美國期中選舉帶來短期不確定性，但不確定性消彌後市場或迎反彈。
中國 中國推動科技自立自強，數據中心建設與新能源需求帶動原材料類股表現，硬體科技與AI供應鏈受
關注，成分散美股擁擠交易的替代選擇。相較歐美股市高估值，中國估值相對偏低具投資吸引力。
新亞 全球AI基礎建設帶動台、韓等半導體與供應鏈規格持續升級，帶動經濟成長預期優於成熟市場。
科技 科技巨頭持續加碼資本支出，對於AI伺服器、先進晶片需求具韌性，相關供應鏈訂單保持高檔。
Apple新品發表會題材，如新一代iPhone等重點產品可望帶動科技硬體與相關概念股買氣。
原物料
/能源
美國經濟擴張、政府加大基礎建設帶動基本金屬和建材需求，受惠於需求強勁、地緣政治造成物流
運輸受阻而支撐原物料價格表現。政府去監管政策，放寬傳統頁岩油氣、管線基礎設施環保管制。

非必須
消費
美國消費具韌性、就業市場穩健，民眾可支配所得增加，消費非必要高單價商品或娛樂餐飲帶動企
業營運。高所得族群支出不受景氣波動，企業獲利具抗震力，聚焦穩定現金流企業。
債券
市場
投等債 發債企業多為體質良好的大型企業，獲利與財務槓桿維持在健康水準，違約風險低。目前殖利率處
於5.5%相對高檔區間，提供穩固的票息保護墊。建議迴避中長天期資產，降低利率波動敏感度。
非投等債 提供相對投資級債更高的殖利率與票息，以及相對較短存續期間，為資產配置帶來實質且穩定現金
流，同時對市場利率變動敏感度較低，價格波動相對穩健。擇優佈局基本面穩健企業保持低違約率。
匯率
市場 美元 美國就業數據強勁，長天期公債殖利率飆升、融資成本惡化，不利吸引國際資金流入，加上地緣政
治與避險情緒猶存，支撐美國公債殖利率維持相對高檔，Fedwatch顯示年內具升息機會。
看好減碼 中立

### Page 20

20
資產別 市場 評論
股票
市場
歐洲 德國推出公共投資與軍事基建計畫，歐洲在AI基礎設施硬體與供應鏈以及資料中心電氣化元件具壟
斷性或高成長優勢。歐洲鄰近中東、俄烏地緣政治衝突核心，經濟易受國際大宗商品價格波動干擾。
日本 薪資溫和成長，內需動能回溫。政策扶植半導體、自動化設備等科技供應鏈。日銀推進利率正常化，
改善大型銀行利差收益。東證持續要求企業提升資本效率與股東回報，激發庫藏股買回與分紅熱潮。
健護醫療 高齡化帶動肥胖、癌症、心血管疾病等慢性病處方需求，剛性支出塑造抗週期與防禦特性。減肥藥
熱潮、AI醫療創新挹注產業盈餘爆發。醫療服務機構和醫院運營商受人員短缺和成本墊高侵蝕淨利。
地產 AI與雲端運算的硬體需求使科技巨頭大量投資AI基礎設施。人口結構改變使高齡住宅與中南部長租
別墅市場出租率居高不下。遠距與混合辦公趨勢已常態化，導致非頂級辦公大樓空置率難以改善。
工業 供應鏈回流帶動了自動化設備與工業檢測的需求。AI電力需求帶動老舊電網全面升級，挹注電器設
備電機、冷卻系統及能源管理方案供應商長期訂單。國防預算提升與航太需求復甦挹注訂單需求。

公用事業 電網、設備與融資成本上升影響資本支出回報，高利率環境下估值易被壓縮。受惠於數據中心帶動
的強勁電力需求，公用事業類股已從傳統的防禦型資產轉型為兼具穩健配息與成長潛力標的。
金融 民生用電與基礎設施需求具備剛性，提供穩定的殖利率與防禦特性。AI數據中心電力需求促使美國
電力公司規畫至2030年投入1.4兆美元基礎設施資本支出，亦可能帶來龐大的債務與融資壓力。
債券
市場
公債 美國聯邦債務突破40兆美元，開支難以削減下政府須擴大發債，聯準會高利率維持時間比預期更長。
新興市場 殖利率具吸引力，配置主權信用品質改善部位可分散投組風險，迴避低信評、具政治/匯率風險國家。
市
場
評
論
看好減碼 中立
其它市場評論

### Page 21

股市分散市場與產業配置、債市分批佈IG
總
結
貨幣 負向 中立 正向
美元 ●
歐元 ●
日圓 ●
人民幣 ●
澳幣 ●
黃金 ●
原油 ●
全球外匯&商品展望
• AI派對尚未結束，科技具長線投資價值但波動度高，
震盪中分散佈局享類股輪動機會。
• 全球長期公債殖利率飆升，擇優佈局具高殖利率且基
本面良好的投資等級債亦可配置在ETF。
• 地緣政治持續挹注避險需求，美元下方獲支撐。歐日
央行貨幣政策緊縮，與美國利差收斂。
• 美國財政部支持公債流動性，9/9-11/4提高長天期公
債回購規模，單次回購規模至少40億美元。
• 聯準會9/15-16、日銀9/17-18利率會議，聚焦利率動
向以及官員對通膨走勢態度。
• 川習會9/24登場，聚焦AI發展角力與經貿與關稅互動。
• 美光9/30發布財報，焦點在驗證AI伺服器對高頻寬記憶
體HBM剛需的超級循環。
後市觀察重點Key Notes
全球債市展望 全球股市展望 標普產業展望
債種 負向 中立 正向
美國債 ●
全球債 ●
公債 ●

投資
等級債 ●
非投資
等級債 ●
新興
市場債 ●
國家 負向 中立 正向
美國 ●
新亞 ●
日本 ●
新歐 ●
歐洲 ●
中國 ●
產業 負向 中立 正向
科技 ●
消費 ●
工業 ●
金融 ●
健護 ●
公用事業 ●
房地產 ●
原物料/
能源 ●

### Page 22

信賴該等資料做出投資決策為由，向本行主張任何權利。未經本行授權，禁止以任何形式引
用、抄襲、重製或轉寄本研究報告。
警語

---
## Document 664: 米国401(k)は投資一任をどう組み込んだのか ～制度の歴史から日本への示唆を考える～

Source PDF: all report pdf/米国401(k)は投資一任をどう組み込んだのか ～制度の歴史から日本への示唆を考える～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-18
Pages: 7
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

My Opinion

2026 年 9 月 18 日

1/7 
米国 401(k)は投資一任をどう組み込んだのか 
～制度の歴史から日本への示唆を考える～ 
 政策調査部 主席研究員  奥田 宏二

（要旨） 
○ 政府は 2026 年 7 月の「成長投資を促進するための金融戦略―資産運用立国のアップグレー
ド―」で、確定拠出年金（DC）でのロボアドバイザーサービス（投資一任契約）の取扱いを
整理する方針を示した。本稿では、米国の 401(k)で専門家に運用を一任する仕組みがどのよ
うに組み込まれてきたのか、歴史的な背景を確認し、日本のDC への示唆を考える。 
○ 米国では、401(k)が加入者自身で商品を選ぶ制度として普及した一方、1990年代には加入者
が専門家を選び、運用を一任する方法も実装された。加入者が増えるにつれ、自分で投資判
断を行うことを望まない人や、運用先を選ばない人にも対応できる仕組みが求められるよう
になった。 
○ 自動加入や適格デフォルト投資先（QDIA）が整備され、加入者に求める行動や判断は段階的
に減っていった。専門家に運用を一任する場合には、専門家が受託者責任を負う。QDIAでは、
一定の要件を満たせば事業主側の責任が限定される。個人に求める判断を減らすとともに、
誰が何について責任を負うのかを明確にしてきた。 
○ 日本のDCも制度開始から四半世紀が経過し、加入者と資産は大きく増えた。どのように運用
するか加入者自身が決めることを基本としつつ、判断を専門家に任せたい人も含め、多様な
人が適切な運用につながる仕組みを整える必要性は、制度の普及とともに高まる。投資一任
の取扱いも、その観点から考える必要があるのではないだろうか。

### Page 2

2/7 
1. はじめに 
政府は2026年7月の「成長投資を促進するための金融戦略―資産運用立国のアップグレード
―」で、確定拠出年金（DC）における投資一任契約（以下、投資一任）の取扱いを整理する方針
を示した。前稿「確定拠出年金に『ロボアド』は導入できるのか～制度設計に向けた論点～」で
は、投資一任を導入する場合の制度上の論点を整理した。現行のDC法は、加入者本人が「自己の
責任において運用の指図を行う」ことを基本的な枠組みとしており、投資一任の活用は認められ
ていない。 
前稿で触れたとおり、日本のDCを制度設計する際に参考とされたのは401(k)だ。その米国で
は、加入者が専門家に運用を一任できる。日本で投資一任を検討するうえで、米国は重要な先行
事例になる。本稿では、401(k)の成り立ちから、投資一任がどのように制度に組み込まれてきた
のか、その歴史的背景をみていく。最後に日本のDCとの違いを整理し、投資一任を考える際の論
点を検討する。

2. 401(k)の成り立ちと発展 
401(k)は1978 年に誕生し、1981年に拠出時の非課税措置が明確になったことで徐々に普及が進
んだ。当初、事業主が用意した複数の運用先から、加入者自身が商品を選ぶ方式が主だった。こ
の点は、いまの日本のDCと共通する。 
その後、加入者自身が商品を選ぶ方法に加え、専門家に運用を一任する方法も実装されていっ
た。米労働省が1992 年に定めた規則は、事業主側が指定した運用者に加入者が自身の運用を任せ
る方法を示した。加入者が運用の一任を決めれば、その後の商品選択や資産配分は加入者のリス
ク許容度などを踏まえ、運用者が判断する。1992年の時点で、 「自分で商品を選ぶ」方法と「専門
家を選んで任せる」方法の両方が示されていたことになる。ただ、この時点でも加入者が商品を
選ぶ方法が一般的だった。 
加入者が増えるにつれ、誰もが自分で適切な商品を選べるわけではないという問題が浮上して
きた。すでに制度としては専門家に運用を任せることができたものの、事業主側が専門家を選ん
で加入者に提示すると、その後の運用判断についても責任を問われるのではないかとの懸念があ
り、提供しづらかった。こうしたなか、米労働省の諮問委員会は2003年、専門家運用を取り上
げ、責任関係をより明確にすることなどを労働省に求めた（注1）。これは一定の要件を満たす場
合に事業主側の責任を限定する仕組みの整備へとつながっていく。

### Page 3

3/7 
資料 1 米国の 401(k)加入者数と主な制度拡充

（注）現役加入者の定義は 2005 年に変更。このため 2004 年から 2005 年にかけての増加には定義変更の影響が含まれる。 
（出所）米労働省（Private Pension Plan Bulletin Historical Tables and Graphs E19）、制度改正等は米労働省、IRS より第一ライフ
資産運用経済研究所作成

3. 加入者自身が専門家に運用を任せる仕組み 
401(k)の運営や資産運用に関する責任は、1974年に成立したERISA（従業員退職所得保障法）に
よって規定されている。ERISAは企業年金の運営に関わる者に受託者責任を課す一方、年金資産の
運用権限を一定の要件を満たす投資運用者に委ねることも認めている。投資運用者は、任された
運用判断について受託者責任を負う（注2）。 
こうした整理があり、401(k)では事業主側が提示した専門家を加入者が選び、運用を任せる仕
組みを利用できる。事業主側、加入者、指定投資運用者（専門家）がそれぞれ異なる判断を担
い、その判断に応じて責任や負担も分かれる（資料2）。

### Page 4

4/7 
資料 2 専門家に運用を任せる場合の判断と責任

（出所）ERISA、29 CFR 2550.404c-1、米労働省の資料より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

事業主側が判断するのは、加入者にどの専門家を提示するかだ。選定には慎重さが求められ、
提供し続けることが適切かを確認する責任を負う。加入者が判断するのは、その専門家に自分の
口座の運用を任せるかどうかだ。専門家は、任された口座の商品選択や資産配分、その後の見直
しを判断する。その運用判断についてERISA上の受託者責任を負い、義務に反する運用によって損
失を生じさせた場合には、その損失について責任を負うことがある。判断と責任を明確にし、加
入者が自らの意思で運用を専門家に任せる仕組みが整えられている。

4. 加入者が選ばなかった場合の専門家による運用 
これまでみてきたのは、401(k)の加入者が自らの意思で専門家に運用を一任する仕組みが整え
られてきた経緯だ。次の課題として、加入資格のある従業員をあらかじめ加入させ、本人が取り
やめない限り給与の一定割合を掛金として拠出する自動加入により、加入はしたものの運用先を
選ばない人への対応が浮上した。 
米内国歳入庁が1998 年に税務上の取扱いを示したことで広がった自動加入は、401(k)の加入率
を大きく引き上げた。米国の大企業1 社を対象とした研究では、本人が申し込む方式から自動加
入に切り替えたところ、入社後3～15 か月の従業員の加入率は37％から86％へ上昇した（注3）。 
ただ、自ら加入を申し込まなかった人は、運用先についても事業主が初期設定したものをその
まま利用する傾向が強かった。三つの大企業を調べた研究では、自動加入となった加入者の約8
割が初期設定された掛金率と運用先を利用し、3年後にも約半数がそのままだった（注 4）。 
課題となったのが、初期設定として何を選ぶか、そしてその判断について誰が責任を負うかで
あった。事業主側には、初期設定した運用で損失が生じた場合の責任への懸念があり、元本の安
定性を重視した商品が選ばれる傾向があった。しかし、長期の資産形成を考えると、元本の安定

### Page 5

5/7 
性を重視した商品は物価上昇に弱く、実質的な資産価値が目減りするおそれがある。何も選ばな
い加入者にも長期運用に適した選択肢を用意し、その選択について事業主側の責任を整理する必
要が高まった。 
2006 年の年金保護法と、それを受けて米労働省が2007年に定めた適格デフォルト投資先
（QDIA）の規則は、この問題に対応したものだ。QDIAは、加入者が運用先を選ばなかった場合に
使われる初期設定の運用先で、事業主側があらかじめ定めておく。実際の手続きを確認すると、
加入者にはまず、自ら運用先を選ぶ機会が与えられる。選ばなかった場合には、QDIAが運用先に
なることなどが事前に通知される。それでも加入者が運用先を指図しなかった場合、その人の資
金はQDIAで運用される。一定の要件を満たせば、責任関係の上では加入者自身が運用先を選んだ
場合と同様に扱われ、運用による損失について事業主側の責任が限定される。加入者はその後
も、自ら別の運用先を選ぶことができる（注5）。 
QDIAとして長期的に利用できる主な運用方法には、退職時期などに応じて資産配分を変えるタ
ーゲット・デート・ファンド、バランスファンド、そして専門家が加入者ごとに資産配分を決め
る投資運用サービス（投資一任）がある。前稿で触れたマネージドアカウントは、この投資運用
サービスの一例だ。

資料 3 自動加入からQDIA導入までの流れ

（出所）IRS Revenue Ruling 98-30, 2000-8、Madrian and Shea (2001)、Choi et al. (2001)、Pension Protection Act of 2006、29 CFR 
2550.404c-5 より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

自動加入によって401(k)に加入する際に必要な行動が減り、QDIAによって判断の負担も減っ
た。加入者の増加によって生じた新たな課題に対応し、より多くの加入者を長期の資産形成に適

### Page 6

6/7 
した運用につなげる仕組みを整えてきた歴史と言えよう。

5. 日本のDCとの違い 
米国では、401(k)の利用者が増えるにつれ、自ら加入しない人、運用先を選ばない人、自分で
投資判断を行うことを望まない人など、さまざまな加入者への対応が課題になった。専門家への
一任、自動加入、QDIAといった仕組みは、こうした普及の過程で生じた課題に対応する形で加わ
ってきた。 
日本の企業型DCは2001年に始まり、約10 年後の2011年 3 月末でも加入者数は約371万人だっ
た。米国で専門家運用や自動加入、初期設定の運用先が大きな課題となっていた2000年代、日本
ではDCを利用する人がまだ限られていた。こうした普及度合いの差は、自分で運用判断を行うこ
とが難しい人への対応が制度上の課題として表面化する時期にも影響した可能性がある。実際、
日本では、加入者が運用先を選ばない場合に備える「指定運用方法」が制度として導入されたの
は2018 年だ。 
もっとも、日本のDCでもターゲット・デート・ファンドやバランスファンドは投資信託として
選択できる。米国でも、QDIAとして実際に最も利用されているのはターゲット・デート・ファン
ドだ。商品内部の資産配分やリバランスを運用会社に任せるという点では、日米に共通する部分
も少なくない。米国との違いが大きいのは、加入者ごとに専門家に任せられる判断の範囲だ。 
日本のDCも制度開始から四半世紀が経過し、加入者と資産額は大きく増えている。これまでの
制度改正では、加入対象の拡大や拠出限度額の見直しなど、制度を利用できる人や拠出できる金
額を広げる取り組みが進んできた。普及が進んだ現在、加入後の運用をどう支えるかという論点
の重要性は高まっている。 
もう一つの変化がテクノロジーだ。投資一任自体は以前からあるが、ロボアドバイザーの登場
によって、加入者ごとのリスク許容度に応じた資産配分やその後の見直しを、少額の資産でも幅
広い利用者に提供しやすくなった。 
投資一任をめぐる議論で新たに問われるのは、商品選択や商品間の資産配分まで専門家に任せ
る選択肢を加えるかという点になる。

6. DCと投資一任の論点 
商品選択や資産配分まで専門家に任せる選択肢を加えるとすれば、決めるべきことは二つあ
る。どの範囲まで任せられるようにするのか。そして、任された側と事業主側がそれぞれ何につ
いて責任を負うのか。米国では、加入者に求める判断を減らす仕組みを広げるとともに、誰が何
について責任を負うのかを整理してきた。加入者が専門家に運用を任せる場合には、専門家が商
品選択や資産配分を判断し、その判断について受託者責任を負う。事業主側には、加入者に提示
する専門家を慎重に選び、その後も確認する責任が残る。QDIAでは、加入者が運用先を選ばなか
った場合の事業主側の責任について、一定の要件の下でその範囲が整理されている。 
現行のDC法では、第1条が個人による「自己の責任において運用の指図」を制度の基本的な枠

### Page 7

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
7/7 
組みとする。第25条は商品を選び、それぞれに充てる額を決めるところまでを本人の「運用の指
図」としている（注6） 。前稿では、第23条の「運用の方法」として投資一任を位置付け、加入者
が投資一任サービスを選び、そこに充てる額を決める形で現行制度と接続する可能性を示した
（注 7）。 
加入者自身が投資一任サービスを選ぶ仕組みであれば、本人が「運用の方法」を選び、配分額
を決める現在の枠組みを活用する余地がある。一方、米国のQDIAのように、加入者が何も選ばな
い場合にもマネージドアカウントを利用できる仕組みまで広げると、第1条との関係を改めて整
理する必要性が高まる。 
加入者の知識や投資への関心、運用にかけられる時間はさまざまだ。加入者自身が決めること
を基本としつつ、判断を専門家に任せたい人も含め、多様な人を適切な運用につなげる仕組みを
整える必要性は、制度の普及とともに高まる。投資一任の取扱いも、その観点から考える必要が
あるのではないだろうか。 
以 上

【注釈】 
1) 米労働省ERISA諮問委員会「確定拠出型年金における任意の専門家運用」 （2003 年11月7 日、
Q1、Q2、Q20、Recommendations）。 
2) ERISA第402条(c)(3)、第3 条(38)、29 CFR 2550.404c-1(d)(2)(iii)、同(f)(8). 
3) Madrian, B. C. and D. F. Shea, “The Power of Suggestion: Inertia in 401(k) 
Participation and Savings Behavior,” Quarterly Journal of Economics, Vol.116, No.4, 
2001. 
4) Choi, J. J., D. Laibson, B. C. Madrian and A. Metrick, “For Better or For Worse: 
Default Effects and 401(k) Savings Behavior,” NBER Working Paper No.8651, 2001.  
5) 2006 年年金保護法第624条により追加されたERISA第 404条(c)(5)、米労働省「適格デフォル
ト投資先（QDIA）規則」 （29 CFR §2550.404c-5）。 
6) 確定拠出年金法第1 条、第25条。厚生労働省の法令解釈では、加入時の投資教育について「具
体的な資産の配分が自らできること」が目的の一つとされている。 
7) 確定拠出年金法第23 条第1 項第6 号は、同項第1 号から第5号に列挙された運用方法以外に
も、政令で定める要件を満たす契約を「運用の方法」とする余地を設けている。

---
## Document 668: 米国・カナダ間で激化する貿易戦争 ～将来的に自動車関税が引き上げられる場合、日系企業にも深刻な影響～

Source PDF: all report pdf/米国・カナダ間で激化する貿易戦争 ～将来的に自動車関税が引き上げられる場合、日系企業にも深刻な影響～.pdf
Report source: DLRI
Date: 2026-09-14
Pages: 5
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

US Trends

2026 年 9 月 14 日

1/5 
米国・カナダ間で激化する貿易戦争 
～将来的に自動車関税が引き上げられる場合、日系企業にも深刻な影響～ 
 経済調査部 主席エコノミスト  前田 和馬 
（℡：050-5473-3888）

（要旨） 
○ 米国とカナダの貿易戦争が激化している。ただし、現時点における追加関税の対象は限定的
であり、両国経済への影響は小さいとみられる。仮に貿易戦争が長期化する場合、対米依存
度の高いカナダの方が影響は相対的に大きくなりやすい一方、カナダの世論調査は対米報復
措置を支持している。 
○ マクロ的な影響が限られる一方、米国の一部の州や産業に貿易戦争の影響が及ぶ場合、11月
中間選挙における接戦州の情勢が変化するかが注目される。仮に共和党の敗因として関税措
置が挙げられる場合、米国の保護貿易政策への歯止めになることが期待される。 
○ 北米に進出する日系製造業の米加貿易は自動車産業に集中している。トランプ大統領は対カ
ナダの自動車関税を2027年 1 月に現状の 25%から 50%へ引き上げる方針を示しており、両国
の貿易戦争が緩和せずにこれが実現する場合、日系製造業の大幅なコスト増へと繋がる懸念
がある。

### Page 2

2/5 
1. はじめに 
 米国とカナダの間で貿易戦争が激化している。米国とカナダのUSMCA（米国・メキシコ・カナダ
協定；現協定は2036 年に失効予定）見直し協議が難航するなか、8月 22日に米トランプ政権は約
200 億ドルの対カナダ輸入に関して50%の追加関税を発動した（1930年関税法338条に基づく措
置） 。トランプ政権は関税発動の理由として、 「カナダが自動車・同部品、乳製品、アルコールの
輸入を巡って、米国を他国よりも不利に扱っている」と指摘している。なお、こうしたカナダに
よる貿易措置の一部は、トランプ政権が2025年3月以降に対カナダ関税を引き上げたことに対す
る報復措置だ。一方、カナダのカーニー首相は9月 8日に同規模（約200億ドル）の米国輸入に
対して 15～50%の報復関税を発動した。米国はこれへの対抗措置として、9 月 15 日に追加関税の
対象品目を拡大するほか、29 日にはアルコール飲料や一部乳製品等への禁輸措置を実施するな
ど、両国の対立が激化している。 
 米国よりもカナダの方が米加貿易の依存度が大きいものの（図表1） 、現時点において追加関税
の対象は限定されており、両国経済に関する影響は限定的に留まると見込まれる。

図表 1：米加貿易の規模（25年：各国GDP比）  図表 2：米国における国別の実効関税率

出所: 米センサス局、米商務省、カナダ統計局、加イノベーション・科学経済開発省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究
所が作成

2. 米国経済への影響 
 米国にとってのカナダは、メキシコに次ぐ主要な貿易相手国である。米国の輸出総額に占めるカ
ナダの割合は15.3%（GDP対比：1.1%）、輸入総額では 11.2%（同、1.2%）にそれぞれ達する（2025
年）。対カナダ輸入を巡って、第二次トランプ政権は広範な品目への関税率を引き上げた一方、
USMCAに準拠した輸入品には適用除外措置等が採用されたため、カナダに対する関税率の上昇は限
定された（図表2）。2026年前半における実効関税率は全世界で7.4%（トランプ政権以前の24年
1.2 1.1
11.1
17.3
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
対カナダ
輸入
対カナダ
輸出
対米
輸入
対米
輸出
米国 カナダ
(GDP比%)
7.4
3.1
23.9
11.1
3.6
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
世界 カナダ 中国 日本     
24年 25年 26年前半(%)

### Page 3

3/5 
実績：2.3%） 、中国が23.9%（同、10.7%） 、日本が11.1%（1.6%）に対して、カナダは3.1%
（0.1%）と主要国でも低水準に留まっている。 
 米国による対カナダ輸入への関税発動はワインやホッケースティックなど約200億ドル分の輸
入を対象としており、これまでの関税措置のようにUSMCAに準拠した製品への免除措置はない。た
だ、対象規模は全輸入の0.6%、対カナダ輸入の5.2%にそれぞれ留まる（GDP比では0.1%未満）。こ
のため、米国の実効関税率に対する影響は全体で0.2%程度、対カナダで2.6%程度と試算されるな
ど、上昇幅は限定的だ。なお、米国はカナダへの対抗措置として対象品目を9 月 15日に拡大する
予定であるが、これと同時に一部品目を対象から除外するため、関税対象の輸入規模は小幅な変
化に留まるとみられる。加えて、新たに発表された禁輸措置は対象が更に限定される。禁輸対象
で輸入額の大きい品目にはバーボンウイスキーやワインなどのアルコール飲料が挙げられるな
ど、仮にカナダ以外の代替調達が困難となっても他産業への波及効果は小さいだろう（図表3）。 
 他方、カナダによる対米報復関税は鉄鋼や家電・家具、衣類など対象が多岐にわたる。これは
米国の対カナダ輸出を押し下げる要因となるものの、これも米国経済全体に与える影響は限定的
とみられる。中西部の一部州では輸出全体の3～4割をカナダ向けが占める一方（図表4） 、報復対
象の輸出規模は約 200億ドル（米国の輸出全体の0.9%）に留まる。カナダとの経済的結びつきが
強いメインやミシガンにおいても、悪影響を受ける輸出額は州経済規模（GDP）の0.2～0.4%と試
算される（図表5）。もっとも、特定州の一部産業に悪影響が集中する可能性は否定できず、こう
した貿易戦争が連邦上院選におけるメインやミシガン、オハイオなどの接戦州の選挙結果を左右
するかが注目される。仮に中間選挙後において、接戦州の共和党の敗因として関税措置が挙げら
れる場合、米国の保護貿易的な動きに対する政治的な歯止めとなることが期待される。

図表3：米国における品目別の対カナダ輸入額（横軸）とカナダの輸入シェア（縦軸）

（出所）米センサス局、ホワイトハウスより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所作成

### Page 4

4/5 
図表 4：輸出全体に占めるカナダ向けの割合  図表 5：追加関税対象となる対カナダ輸出

注：紫色は連邦上院選の接戦州。関税対象となる輸出規模は CBC の推計値を用いて算出。 
出所: 米センサス局、CBCより第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が作成

3. カナダ経済への影響 
 カナダ経済にとって対米貿易への依存度は非常に高い。2025年において、対米輸出は輸出全体
の 72.3%（GDP比17.3%） 、対米輸入は全体の45.9%（同、11.1%）と圧倒的なシェアを占める。ま
た、今回の貿易戦争で影響を受ける米加貿易額は400 億ドル（両国がそれぞれ200億ドル相当の
輸入品の関税を引き上げ）に達し、これはカナダGDPの 1.7%に及ぶ（米国は0.1%）。とはいえ、例
えば米国が関税を引き上げた品目の対米輸出が10%減少しようとも、GDPへの影響は0.1%未満であ
る。また、カナダ政府は米国への報復措置と同時に、国内経済への影響を緩和するための資金繰
り支援策等にも取り組むと表明している。このため、今回の貿易戦争がカナダ経済への景気後退
を招くほどの影響はないとみられる。実際、カナダ中銀のマックレム総裁は9 月政策決定会合後
の記者会見において、貿易戦争による不確実性が企業の設備投資や採用の先送りにつながるリス
クを指摘した一方、米国の関税措置が経済活動に大きな影響を及ぼす可能性を否定している。 
この間、カナダの世論調査（8 月22～23日実施）をみると、国民の76%が「対米貿易交渉の打
ち切りは正しい」と評価し、62%が「米国への報復措置は概ね妥当」と述べている。このため、貿
易戦争が続いた場合の経済的なダメージはカナダの方がより大きいとみられるものの、現時点に
おいて、カナダ側に妥協を促すような国民世論は形成されていない。

4. 日系企業への影響 
上記でみたように、現時点において米国とカナダへの影響は相対的に抑制されると見込まれ
る。最後に海外事業活動基本調査（2024年度実績）に基づき、北米に進出する日系企業への影響
を確認する。なお、カナダの計数は北米地域の集計値からアメリカを差し引くことで算出した。 
0 20 40 60 80 100
ノースダコタ
ウェストバージニア
メイン
ミシガン
オハイオ
アイオワ
ウィスコンシン
インディアナ
ケンタッキー
アラスカ
テキサス
(%)
0.0 0.2 0.4 0.6
ノースダコタ
ウェストバージニア
メイン
ミシガン
オハイオ
アイオワ
ウィスコンシン
インディアナ
ケンタッキー
アラスカ
テキサス
(GDP比%)

### Page 5

本資料は情報提供を目的として作成されたものであり、投資勧誘を目的としたものではありません。作成時点で、第一ライフ資産運用
経済研究所が信ずるに足ると判断した情報に基づき作成していますが、その正確性、完全性に対する責任は負いません。見通しは予告
なく変更されることがあります。また、記載された内容は、第一生命保険ないしはその関連会社の投資方針と常に整合的であるとは限
りません。 
5/5 
 まず、自動車を中心とした輸送機械産業において、米国法人からのカナダ向け輸出、及びカナ
ダ法人からの米国向け輸出が合計で12.2兆円に達し、これは北米法人（米国＋カナダ）における
売上高の46%を占める。これまでの自動車産業はUSMCAによる関税免除の利点を活かし、部品など
が完成車となるまでに米国・カナダや米国・メキシコの国境を複数回越えるなど、北米一帯で統
合的なサプライチェーンを構築してきた。一方、トランプ大統領は2027年 1月からカナダに対す
る自動車関税を現行の25%から 50%へ引き上げると表明しており、これが実現する場合の自動車産
業への影響は大きい。米国の対カナダ自動車輸入（HSコード87：部品等を含む）の実効関税率は
2024 年に0.2%だった一方、2026年1～7 月には9.1%へと上昇している。この背景には、通商拡大
法 232 条に基づく自動車関税により、USMCAの原産地規則を満たしていても、完成車の非米国産部
材に対して25%関税が課されることがある。仮に自動車関税が50%へと引き上げられ、実効関税率
が倍増する場合、日系企業のコスト負担は約3,900億円拡大すると試算される（=カナダ法人の対
米輸出[4.3兆円]×9.1%） 。他方、輸送機械以外の製造業は米国法人によるカナダへの輸出、及び
カナダへの進出そのものが限定的であり、企業収益への影響は限られるだろう。

図表 6：日系米国法人の売上構成  図表 7：日系カナダ法人の売上構成

出所: 経済産業省より第一ライフ資産運用経済研究所が作成

以 上 
0
20
40
60
80
100
製造業 (輸送
機械)
(輸送機
械以外)
非製造業
現地販売 カナダ向け輸出
第三国向け輸出 日本向け輸出
(兆円)
0
2
4
6
8
10
製造業 (輸送
機械)
(輸送機
械以外)
非製造業
現地販売 米国向け輸出
第三国向け輸出 日本向け輸出
(兆円)

---
## Document 669: 米国経済の見通し－ＡＩ投資主導で堅調な成長持続、インフレ鈍化が不十分なら利上げも

Source PDF: all report pdf/米国経済の見通し－ＡＩ投資主導で堅調な成長持続、インフレ鈍化が不十分なら利上げも.pdf
Report source: NLI
Date: 2026-09-09
Pages: 11
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

（図表１）

▲ 8
▲ 6
▲ 4
▲ 2
0
2
4
6
8
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
政府支出 純輸出 在庫変動 住宅投資
設備投資 個人消費 実質ＧＤＰ 民間国内最終需要
米国の実質ＧＤＰ成長率（寄与度）（前期比年率、％）
（四半期）
（注）季節調整済系列の前期比年率
（資料）BEAよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
予測
１. 米国の 26 年 4－6 月期の実質ＧＤＰ成長率（前期比年率）は+1.5％と前期の+2.1％から
低下。一方、個人消費や設備投資が堅調に推移したことで、国内需要を示す民間国内最
終需要は前期比年率+4.2％と前期の+1.7％から大幅に加速。 
２. 足元では、中東情勢を巡る不透明感が続く中、原油・ガソリン価格はイラン戦争開始前
を上回る水準で高止まりしているものの、開戦直後のピークからは大幅に低下。一方、
実質個人消費は所得の伸びを上回って堅調に推移しているほか、ＡＩ関連投資が引き続
き設備投資を牽引し、株高による資産効果も消費を下支え。 
３. 先行きは、中東情勢やトランプ政権の通商政策などを巡る不透明感が残るものの、原油
価格上昇による景気への下押しが前回想定より限定的となるほか、ＡＩ関連投資が引き
続き米国経済の重要な成長ドライバーとなることから、米国経済は堅調な成長を維持す
ると予想。実質ＧＤＰ成長率は26 年が前年比+2.1％、27 年が+2.0％を見込む。 
４. インフレ率はエネルギー価格の低下に伴い足元で鈍化しており、現時点ではＦＲＢが 26
年中政策金利を据え置くと予想。一方、ウォーシュ議長はインフレ抑制を重視する姿勢
を鮮明にしており、9 月利上げの可能性は高まっている。11 日発表の 8 月ＣＰＩでイン
フレ鈍化が不十分な場合には金融政策見通しを変更する可能性。 
５. 主なリスク要因としては、中東情勢悪化による原油価格急騰、株価調整による資産効果
の剥落、ＡＩ関連投資の減速に加え、中間選挙後の政治対立激化による政策運営の停滞
などが挙げられる。

ニッセイ基礎研究所 2026-09-09 
米国経済の見通し 
－ＡＩ 投資主導で堅調な成長持続、インフレ鈍化が
不十分なら利上げも

経済研究部 主任研究員 窪谷 浩 
(03)3512-1824  kubotani@nli-research.co.jp

### Page 2

1 計算方法などについて、詳しくは Weekly エコノミスト・レター（2026 年 8 月 24 日） 「拡大する米国の AI 関連投資－成長への寄与
と投資ブームの持続性」https://www.nli-research.co.jp/report/detail/id=86608?site=nli を参照下さい 
（図表 2）

-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2023 2024 2025 2026
AI関連分野の実質GDP成長率への寄与度
設備投資（ソフトウェア） 設備投資（データセンター）
設備投資（電力設備） 設備投資（コンピューター・周辺機器）
純輸出（コンピューター・周辺機器） 合計
（％ポイント）
（注）各項目の実質GDP成長率への寄与度。AI関連分野の範囲および寄与度の推計方法はFRBに
基づき、最新のBEAデータを用いて当研究所が試算。コンピューター・周辺機器の純輸出を
含む
（資料）FRB、BEAよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 3

一方で、富裕層を中心とする消費を支えてい
るのが株価上昇に伴う資産効果とみられる。 Ｓ
＆Ｐ500 指数、 ナスダック指数はともに4 月に
大幅に下落した後に急速に持ち直し、足元（9
月 4 日時点）では 26 年初の水準を1 割以上上
回って推移している（図表 5） 。ＡＩ関連投資
拡大への期待などを背景とした株高による資
産効果が富裕層を中心に個人消費を下支えし
ていることで、 実質所得の伸びが大幅に鈍化す
る中でも、 個人消費は底堅さを維持していると
みられる。 
もっとも、インフレ率は足元で鈍化しているものの、 依然としてＦＲＢの物価目標を上回ってお
り、金融政策面から景気への下押し圧力が強まる可能性には注意が必要である。6 月のＦＯＭＣ会
合から議長を務めるウォーシュ氏は、6 月、7 月会合では自身の金融政策の反応関数について、Ｆ
ＲＢ内部に設置したタスクフォースの検討結果を先取りしたくないなどとして明確な考えを示し
てこなかった。しかし、8 月 28 日のジャクソンホール会議での講演では、2％の物価目標は「確固
たる固定目標」 であるとしたうえで、 基調的なインフレ率が目標に向けて明確かつ十分な速さで低
下しているとの確信が持てなければ「やるべきことがある」と述べ、インフレ抑制を重視する姿勢
を鮮明にした。 
同発言を受けて金融市場では利上げ観測が急速に強まっており、9 月ＦＯＭＣ会合で0.25％ポイ
ントの利上げが実施される確率は、 講演前の3～4 割程度から足元では6 割程度まで上昇している。 
今後、 インフレ率の高止まりを背景にＦＲＢが追加利上げに踏み切る場合には、 住宅や設備投資な
ど金利感応度の高い分野を中心に景気の下押し要因となる可能性がある。

（経済見通し）成長率（前年比）は 26 年が+2.1％、27 年が+2.0％を予想 
米国経済は中東情勢やトランプ政権の通商政策などを巡る不透明感が残るものの、 個人消費を中
心とした民間需要は底堅さを維持しているほか、 ＡＩ関連投資が引き続き設備投資を牽引している。
（図表 3）

（図表 4）

（図表 5）

2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
5.5
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
原油先物価格およびガソリン価格
原油先物価格
ガソリン価格（右軸）
（ドル/ガロン）（ドル/バレル）
（注）原油価格はWTI先物価格、ガソリン価格はレギュラーガソリンの小売価格全米平均
（資料）Datastreamよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
-2
0
2
4
6
8
2023 2024 2025 2026
実質可処分所得および実質個人消費（前年同月比）
実質可処分所得 実質個人消費
（％）
（資料）BEAよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
24/01 24/04 24/07 24/10 25/01 25/04 25/07 25/10 26/01 26/04 26/07
S&P500およびナスダック指数
S&P500 ナスダック
（指数）
（注）26年年初を100として指数化
（資料）ブルームバーグよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 4

物価については、原油・ガソリン価格がピークから低下していることから、足元でインフレ率の
鈍化がみられている。また、関税による物価押し上げ圧力もピークアウトしつつある。当研究所で
はＣＰＩ総合指数 （前年比） は26 年が+3.3％と 25 年の+2.7％から加速する一方、27 年は+2.4％へ
低下すると予想する。 
金融政策については、 インフレ率が足元で鈍化していることから、 ＦＲＢは当面政策金利を3.50
～3.75％で据え置くと予想する。 一方、 ウォーシュ議長はインフレ抑制を重視する姿勢を鮮明にし
ており、 インフレ率が目標に向けて十分なペースで低下しない場合には利上げに転じる可能性があ
（図表 6）

2025年 2026年 2027年 2025年 2026年 2027年
1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12 1-3 4-6 7-9 10-12
（実） （予） （予） (実） （実） （実） （実） (実） （実） （予） （予） (予） （予） （予） （予）
実質ＧＤＰ 前期比年率、％ 2.1 2.1 2.0 ▲ 0.6 3.8 4.4 0.5 2.1 1.5 2.3 1.9 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
個人消費 前期比年率、％ 2.6 2.1 2.1 0.6 2.5 3.5 1.9 0.5 3.4 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
設備投資 前期比年率、％ 4.1 6.2 3.6 9.5 7.3 3.2 2.4 10.6 8.5 4.0 4.0 3.0 3.0 3.0 3.0
住宅投資 前期比年率、％ ▲ 2.2 ▲ 3.0 2.0 ▲ 1.0 ▲ 5.1 ▲ 7.1 ▲ 1.7 ▲ 7.8 1.3 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0 2.0
政府支出 前期比年率、％ 1.1 0.3 0.5 ▲ 1.0 ▲ 0.1 2.2 ▲ 5.6 4.4 ▲ 1.0 1.2 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5 0.5
在庫投資 寄与度 ▲ 0.1 ▲ 0.2 0.1 2.6 ▲ 3.4 ▲ 0.1 0.1 0.2 ▲ 0.7 0.5 0.2 0.2 0.0 0.0 0.0
純輸出 寄与度 ▲ 0.2 0.0 ▲ 0.3 ▲ 4.7 4.8 1.6 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 1.1 ▲ 0.6 ▲ 0.4 ▲ 0.2 ▲ 0.0 ▲ 0.0 ▲ 0.0
消費者物価（ＣＰＩ－Ｕ） 前年同期比、％ 2.7 3.3 2.4 2.7 2.4 2.9 2.7 2.7 3.9 3.3 3.2 2.9 2.2 2.3 2.3
失業率 平均、％ 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.1 4.2 4.3 4.5 4.3 4.3 4.2 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.3 4.3
ＦＦレート誘導目標 期末、上限、％ 3.75 3.75 3.75 4.50 4.50 4.25 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75 3.75
10年国債金利 平均、％ 4.3 4.5 4.4 4.4 4.4 4.2 4.1 4.2 4.4 4.7 4.6 4.5 4.4 4.3 4.3
米ドル（ユーロ） 平均、ドル/ユーロ 1.13 1.16 1.17 1.05 1.13 1.17 1.16 1.17 1.16 1.15 1.16 1.16 1.16 1.17 1.17
米ドル（対円） 平均、円/ドル 150 158 156 153 145 148 154 157 159 159 158 156 156 155 155
原油価格（WTI先物） 平均、ドル/バレル 65 83 74 71 64 65 59 72 93 84 84 80 75 72 70
（資料）BEA、BLS、ブルームバーグよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
米国経済の見通し

### Page 5

２． 実体経済の動向 
（労働市場、個人消費）労働市場は安定、個人消費は底堅さを維持 
労働市場は足元で安定した状況が続いている。非農業部門雇用者数（前月比）は、26 年入り後、
月ごとの振れが大きくなっているものの、8 月は+16.2 万人と前月の+2.1 万人から大幅に増加した
（図表 7）。6－8 月期の3 ヵ月移動平均は+7.1 万人と雇用増加ペース自体は緩やかなものの、25 年
に比べて雇用者数は安定して増加している。また、失業率も8 月は4.1％ （前月：4.1％）と低水準
を維持しており、労働市場が大幅に悪化する兆候はみられない。 
労働需要を示す求人数は25 年12 月の655 万人を底に振れを伴いながら持ち直しており、26 年7
月は 727 万人と 25 年末を 72 万人上回った（図表 8） 。失業者1 人当たりの求人数も 25 年 12 月の
0.87 件から7 月には1.05 件へ上昇した。 このため、 求人件数は22 年のピーク時に比べれば大幅に
低い水準にとどまるものの、25 年末にかけてみられた労働需要の減速には歯止めがかかり、 足元で
は緩やかな持ち直しがみられる。

個人消費は前述のように総じて底堅く推移している。雇用環境が安定しているほか、株価上昇に伴う
資産効果が高所得層を中心に消費を下支えしているとみられる。一方、消費マインドは春先の低水準か
らは持ち直しているものの、依然として力強さを欠いている。ミシガン大学消費者センチメント指数は
26 年 5 月の44.8 を底に7 月は 55.2 まで上昇した後、8 月は51.7 へ小幅に低下した（図表9） 。カンフ
（図表 7）

（図表 8）

3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
5.0
▲ 20
0
20
40
60
80
100
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
非農業部門雇用者数（前月差）
3ヵ月移動平均
失業率（右軸）
米国の雇用動向（非農業部門雇用増と失業率）（万人）
（注）25年10月の失業率は欠損値
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（％）
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
求人数および求人数/失業者数
求人数 求人数/失業数（右軸）
（注）季節調整済
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（万人） （比率）

### Page 6

（設備投資）ＡＩ関連投資主導で堅調な拡大が継続 
設備投資はＡＩ関連投資を中心に堅調な拡大が続いている。 前述の通り、実質ＧＤＰにおける設
備投資は26 年入り後、2 期連続で高い伸びを維持した。 また、 ＡＩ関連分野の実質ＧＤＰ成長率へ
の寄与度は約3 分の 1 を占めており、 ＡＩ関連分野が引き続き米国経済の主要な成長ドライバーと
なっている。 
足元の受注・出荷動向も、7－9 月期に設備投資が堅調に推移している可能性を示唆している。 設
備投資の先行指標であるコア資本財受注（除く航空機・国防、3 ヵ月移動平均の3 ヵ月前比年率）
は 7 月に+16％台まで伸びが加速したほか、コア資本財出荷も+12％程度まで伸びを高めた（図表
10） 。 いずれも25 年末以降の増加基調が鮮明となっており、 企業の設備投資需要は引き続き旺盛と
みられる。 
とりわけ、 ＡＩ関連投資については主要テック企業が積極的な設備投資計画を相次いで打ち出し
ている。 アマゾン、グーグル、メタ、マイクロソフトなど主要テック企業の設備投資額は、25 年の
4,000 億ドル強から26 年には 8,000 億ドル台半ばへ倍増する見込みである （図表11） 。 各社はＡＩ
向けデータセンターや半導体などへの需要拡大を背景に、26 年の設備投資計画を年初から相次い
で大幅に上方修正しており、ＡＩ関連投資主導の堅調な設備投資は 26 年を通じて継続する可能性
が高い。 
（図表 9）

（図表 10）

（図表 11）

0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
インフレ予想（1年後）
ミシガン大学 総合指数
カンファレンスボード 総合指数
消費者センチメントおよび家計のインフレ予想（指数）
（注）ミシガン大学は1966年1-3月期＝100、カンファレンスボードは1985年＝100。インフレ予想（1年
後）はミシガン大学調査の家計の1年後のインフレ予想。
（資料）ミシガン大学、カンファレンスボードよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
▲ 15
▲ 10
▲ 5
0
5
10
15
20
25
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
名目設備投資
コア資本財受注
コア資本財出荷
（％）
（注）コア資本財は国防・航空を除く資本財、コア資本財受注・出荷は3カ月移動平均後の3カ月前比年率
（資料）センサス局、BEAよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成。
米国製造業の耐久財受注・出荷と設備投資
（耐久財受注・出荷：月次、設備投資：四半期）
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
0
2,000
4,000
6,000
8,000
10,000
12,000
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026予 2027予
米主要テック企業の設備投資額
アマゾン グーグル
メタ マイクロソフト
その他 前年比（右軸）
（億ドル） （％）
計画・予測
（注） 設備投資は原則として各社の有形固定資産取得額。2025年までは実績、2026年は各社の
会社計画・ガイダンス等、2027年はMarketScreener掲載の市場コンセンサスに基づく。
マイクロソフト、オラクルは決算期の違いを調整し暦年換算。「その他」はオラクルとコアウィーブ。
前年比は設備投資総額の前年比。
（資料） FRB、各社決算資料、MarketScreenerより作成。

### Page 7

（住宅投資）住宅投資はプラス転換も、回復の持続性に懸念 
住宅投資は26 年 4－6 月期に前期比年率+1.3％と6 期ぶりにプラスに転じた。 もっとも、 足元の
住宅建設活動には再び弱さがみられる。住宅着工件数（3 ヵ月移動平均後の 3 ヵ月前比年率）は 7
月に▲35.6％と大幅なマイナスとなったほか、 先行指標である住宅建築許可件数もマイナス圏で推
移している （図表12） 。 このため、4－6 月期にプラス転換した住宅投資について、7－9 月期も回復
が持続するかは不透明となっている。 
また、住宅需要も軟調な状況が続いている。30 年固定住宅ローン金利は 26 年春先の 6％台前半
から上昇し、足元では 6％台後半で推移している（図表 13） 。こうした中、住宅購入目的の住宅ロ
ーン申請件数は春先をピークに低下基調が続いており、 高金利が住宅需要の重石となっていること
を示している。 
先行きについても、 住宅市場の本格的な回復は当面見込み難い。 インフレ率の高止まりやＦＲＢ
の利上げ観測などを背景に米国債金利が上昇しており、 住宅ローン金利には上昇圧力がかかってい
る。 また、 建築資材価格の上昇に伴う建設コストの増加などを背景に住宅価格も高止まりしており、
高金利と住宅価格の高止まりが家計の住宅取得能力を引き続き圧迫しよう。 このため、 住宅投資は
4－6 月期にプラス転換したものの、住宅需要の本格的な回復にはなお時間を要するとみられる。

（政府支出）財政面からの景気下支え効果は減退へ 
26 年の堅調な個人消費には、ＯＢＢＢＡに伴う減税の効果も寄与している。とりわけ26 年初に
は、 ＯＢＢＢＡによる減税を反映した税還付の増加が家計所得を押し上げ、 個人消費を下支えした
とみられる。 ブルッキングス研究所の試算では、 ＯＢＢＢＡによる実質ＧＤＰ成長率への押し上げ
効果は 26 年 1－3 月期に+0.7％ポイント程度、4－6 月期にも+0.6％ポイント程度に達した（図表
14） 。 一方、 同効果は26 年後半には+0.2～+0.4％ポイント程度へ縮小し、27 年後半には+0.1％ポイ
ント程度まで低下する見込みである。 
（図表 12）

（図表 13）

▲ 60
▲ 40
▲ 20
0
20
40
60
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
住宅着工件数
住宅建築許可件数
住宅投資（実質伸び率、右軸）
住宅着工件数と実質住宅投資の伸び率（年率）
（注）住宅着工件数、住宅建築許可件数は3カ月移動平均後の3カ月前比年率
（資料）センサス局、BEAよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成 （着工・建築許可：月次、住宅投資：四半期）
（年率）
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
110
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
住宅ローン金利および住宅購入ローン申請件数
MBA申請件数
モーゲージローン30年金利（右軸）
（指数） （％）
（注）MBA申請件数は住宅購入目的の住宅ローン申請件数を指数化（90年3月16日=100)
したもの。季節調整済み
（資料）MBA（Mortgage Bankers Association）よりニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 8

（外需）貿易赤字は再び拡大、関税政策を巡る不透明感も継続 
実質ＧＤＰにおける外需の26 年 4－6 月期の成長率寄与度は▲1.1％ポイント （前期：▲0.4％ポ
イント） と前期からマイナス幅が拡大した。 輸出が前期比年率+4.5％ （前期：+10.9％） と伸びが鈍
化した一方、輸入は+12.5％（前期：+11.8％）と伸びが加速したことから、純輸出が成長率を押し
下げた。 
月次の貿易統計をみると、財・サービスを合計した貿易収支（3 ヵ月移動平均）は25 年春以降、
赤字幅が縮小していたものの、26 年入り後は再び拡大し、7 月は785 億ドルの赤字となった（図表
15） 。 輸出が減少する一方、 輸入が増加しており、 双方が貿易赤字の拡大に寄与した。 なお、 単月で
も 7 月の輸出は前月比▲2.1％と減少した一方、輸入は同+2.8％と増加し、貿易赤字は 886 億ドル
へ拡大した。 
一方、実際の関税負担を示す実効関税率（関税収入額／財輸入額）は、25 年 10 月の12.9％をピ
ークに低下し、26 年5 月には7.0％となった後、7 月は 7.8％へ小幅に上昇した （図表16）。ＩＥＥ
ＰＡ（国際緊急経済権限法）に基づく関税措置が違憲判断を受けて撤回された後、政権はその代替
措置として通商法 122 条に基づく一律関税を導入したが、同措置も7 月 24 日に 150 日の期限を迎
えた。 
これに代わる措置として、 トランプ政権は通商法301 条の活用を進めている。 強制労働を巡って
は、 各国が強制労働によって生産された製品の輸入を十分に禁止 ・執行していないとして60 の国 ・
地域を対象に調査を実施し、7 月には10～12.5％の追加関税を導入した。日本については、対象品
目の最恵国（ＭＦＮ）税率との合計が 12.5％となるよう追加関税率が設定されている。 また、日
本、中国、ＥＵなど 16 の国・地域を対象に、 製造業の構造的な過剰生産能力・過剰生産を巡る301
条調査も継続しており、調査結果次第では新たな関税措置につながる可能性がある。 
（図表 14）

-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
25Q4 26Q1 26Q2 26Q3 26Q4 27Q1 27Q2 27Q3 27Q4
財政政策による実質GDP成長率への寄与度
OBBBA 関税 政府閉鎖 その他 財政政策全体
（％ポイント）
（注）ブルッキングス研究所のハッチンズ・センターのFiscal Impact Measureを要因分解したもの
（資料）ブルッキングス研究所よりニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 9

３． 物価・金融政策・長期金利の動向 
（物価）インフレは鈍化も、エネルギー価格やＡＩ関連投資に上振れリスク 
中東情勢の緊迫化に伴うエネルギー価格の上昇を受けて春先に再加速したインフレは、 足元で再
び鈍化している。総合ＣＰＩは前年同月比で26 年 5 月の+4.2％をピークに、6 月の+3.5％、7 月の
+3.3％へ2 ヵ月連続で伸びが鈍化した （図表17） 。 総合ＰＣＥ価格指数も5 月の+4.1％から6、7 月
は+3.7％へ低下した。一方、エネルギーを除いた基調的な物価動向を示すコア指数では、7 月のＣ
ＰＩが+2.5％、 ＰＣＥ価格指数が+3.3％となっており、 総合指数に比べて春先以降の変動は限定的
となっている。 このため、 春先のインフレ再燃には中東情勢の緊迫化に伴うエネルギー価格上昇の
影響が大きかったとみられる。

（図表 15）

（図表 16）

（図表 17）

（図表 18）

▲ 1,400
▲ 1,200
▲ 1,000
▲ 800
▲ 600
▲ 400
▲ 200
0
200
400
600
800
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
▲ 70
▲ 60
▲ 50
▲ 40
▲ 30
▲ 20
▲ 10
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
貿易収支（右軸）
輸出伸び率
輸入伸び率
（％）
（注）季節調整済、国際収支統計ベースの財およびサービス貿易の合計、3ヵ月移動平均。
輸出入伸び率は、3ヵ月移動平均、3ヵ月前比。
（資料）センサス局よりニッセイ基礎研究所作成 （月次）
貿易収支（財・サービス） （億ドル）
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1 26/4 26/7
米国の実効関税率（％）
（注）財輸入額（センサスベース）に対する関税収入の割合
（資料）米国勢調査局および米財務省よりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
24/1 24/4 24/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1 26/4 26/7
CPI、PCE価格指数（前年同月比）
CPI（総合） CPI（コア）
PCE（総合） PCE(コア）
（％）
（注）CPI、PCE価格指数のコアは食料、エネルギー除き
（資料）BLS、BEAよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
24/1 24/4 24/7 24/10 25/1 25/4 25/7 25/10 26/1 26/4 26/7
CPI内訳（前年同月比）
食料品
コア財
コアサービス（住居費）
コアサービス（除く住居費）
エネルギー（右軸）
（％）
（注）コア財は食料品、エネルギーを除く商品価格、コアサービスはエネルギーサービスを除く
サービス価格
（資料）BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成

### Page 10

（金融政策）9 月利上げの可能性が高まるも、8 月ＣＰＩを見極め 
ＦＲＢは 7 月のＦＯＭＣで政策金利を 3.50
～3.75％に据え置いた（図表19）。一方、クリ
ーブランド連銀のハマック総裁、 ミネアポリス
連銀のカシュカリ総裁、 ダラス連銀のローガン
総裁の 3 名は 0.25％の利上げを主張して反対
票を投じた。7 月会合の議事要旨では、 実際に
利上げを支持した参加者は少数にとどまった
ものの、 多数の参加者がインフレ率の低下がみ
られない場合には金融引き締めが必要になる
との見方を示すなど、ＦＯＭＣ内でインフレ上
振れへの警戒が強まっていることが示された。
なお、6 月ＦＯＭＣで示された参加者の26 年末の政策金利見通しは、 利上げを見込む参加者が据え
置きを見込む参加者を上回っており、ＦＯＭＣ参加者の政策金利見通しも利上げ方向に傾いている
（図表 19）。 
こうした中、6 月会合で議長として初めてＦＯＭＣに臨んだウォーシュ議長の金融政策スタンス
にも変化がみられる。 同議長は就任後、 金融政策の枠組みなどを検討する5 つのタスクフォースを
設置する一方、その検討結果を先取りすべきでないとの姿勢から、6 月、7 月会合では自身が望ま
しいと考える金融政策の方向性を明確にすることを避けてきた。 しかし、 金融政策に対する自身の
考え方をより明確に示すべきとの指摘がみられる中、8 月 28 日のジャクソンホール会議での講演
（図表 19）

0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027 2028
PCE価格、失業率、政策金利およびFOMC参加者見通し
政策金利 PCE価格指数（前年同月比）
PCEコア価格指数（前年同月比） PCE(FOMC参加者見通し）
PCEコア（FOMC参加者見通し） 政策金利（FOMC参加者見通し、右軸）
失業率（右軸） 失業率（FOMC参加者見通し、右軸）
（注）政策金利はレンジの上限。FOMC参加者の見通しは26年6月予想
（資料）FRB、BEA、BLSよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成
（％）
物価目標
（％）

### Page 11

（長期金利）当面は高止まりも、その後は緩やかに低下 
米国の長期金利（10 年金利）は、26 年春先
に 4％程度まで低下した後、足元では4％台後
半まで上昇している （図表20） 。 インフレ率が
ＦＲＢの物価目標を上回る状況が続く中、 堅調
な景気や労働市場を背景に政策金利が高水準
で維持されるとの見方が長期金利を押し上げ
ている。 
今後については、 インフレ率が緩やかに低下
する中で長期金利も低下基調に転じると予想
する。 当研究所では、 前述の通り現時点で政策
金利は 26 年中据え置かれると予想しており、
長期金利は26 年 10－12 月期の 4％台後半をピークに、その後は緩やかに低下し、予測期間末には
4％台前半となると見込んでいる。 
もっとも、インフレ率の低下が想定以上に遅れ、ＦＲＢが利上げに転じる場合には、長期金利も
当研究所の予想を上振れる可能性がある。 また、 足元では金融市場が世界的に財政リスクに敏感に
なっており、 米国でも財政赤字の高止まりや国債発行の増加に伴う国債需給の悪化が長期金利の上
昇リスクとなろう。 
（図表 20）

本資料記載のデータは各種の情報源から入手・加工したものであり、その正確性と完全性を保証するものではありません。 
また、本資料は情報提供が目的であり、記載の意見や予測は、いかなる契約の締結や解約を勧誘するものではありません。 
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
7.0
2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026 2027
米国金利見通し（％）
（注）政策金利はフェデラルファンドレート（上限レート）。見通しは4半期平均。
（資料）データストリームよりニッセイ基礎研究所作成 （月次、予測期は四半期）
予測
長期金利（10年）
政策金利

---
## Document 721: 贝森特从华尔街挖人，“卖方策略首席”进入美国财政部，此前曾候选美联储主席

Source PDF: all report pdf/贝森特从华尔街挖人，“卖方策略首席”进入美国财政部，此前曾候选美联储主席.pdf
Report source: WallstreetCN (Global)
Date: 2026-09-29
Pages: 2
Extraction status: ok

### Page 1

美国财政部在⼈⼿动荡之际出奇兵，曾被列⼊美联储主席候选名单的华尔街资深策略师
David Zervos ，即⽇起以顾问⾝份加盟，这是 Zervos 第三度进⼊政府任职。⽬前 10 年期美
债收益率已破 5% ，美联储意外加息，⻉森特引⼊这位兼具央⾏履历与市场公信⼒的 " 怪
才 " ，既为争议政策背书，更向市场发出稳定信号。
摘要：
美国财政部在⼈员动荡之际迎来⼀位重量级华尔街⽼将。
财政部⻓斯科特 · ⻉森特周⼆宣布，在杰富瑞（ Jefferies ）担任⾸席市场策略师逾⼗五年的资深
经济学家 David Zervos 将出任财政部顾问，即⽇⽣效。这⼀任命不仅填补了财政部的⼈才缺⼝，
更因 Zervos 此前曾被列为美联储主席候选⼈⽽备受市场关注。
Zervos 将以 " 特别政府雇员 " ⾝份任职，据 CNBC 报道，他本⼈已向客⼾发送邮件，预计任期将
于 2027 年 4 ⽉结束。该⾝份豁免了部分财务披露和资产出售义务，且⽆需参议院确认。Zervos
公开⽀持⻉森特推⾏的⻓期国债回购计划，并持续呼吁美联储降息—— 这两项⽴场与当前财政

部的政策取向⾼度契合。
此次任命发⽣在美国国债市场承压的敏感时刻。 10 年期美债收益率已升破 5% ，为 2007 年以来⾸
次，美联储本⽉亦时隔两年⾸度加息，令特朗普政府内部部分经济学家感到不满。 Zervos 的加
⼊，被外界视为⻉森特在政策智识层⾯寻求更强⽀撑的信号。
Zervos 其⼈：三度⼊仕的华尔街 " 怪才 "
David Zervos 拥有罗切斯特⼤学经济学博⼠学位，职业⽣涯横跨学术、监管与市场三个领域，此
次是他第三度进⼊政府任职。
其政府履历可追溯⾄ 1990 年代。他最初在美联储从事利率研究与技术经济学⼯作，此后转赴私
营部⻔，先后在 Brevan Howard 和 UBS O'Connor 担任全球宏观组合经理，积累了丰富的交易与
研究经验。 2008 年⾦融危机爆发后，他于 2009 年重返美联储，在华盛顿联邦储备委员会货币事
务部担任访问顾问。
2010 年， Zervos 加⼊杰富瑞，此后在该⾏担任⾸席市场策略师⻓达约⼗五年。在此期间，他覆
盖固定收益、股票及投资银⾏等多条业务线的客⼾，频繁出席⾦融市场会议并接受媒体采访，

逐渐成为华尔街颇具影响⼒的卖⽅声⾳。他同时担任 Leucadia Asset Management LLC （ LAM ）
全球宏观部⻔负责⼈，定期向杰富瑞客⼾及付费订阅者提供全球宏观经济与⾦融趋势研判。
Zervos 此番⼊职财政部，距他与美联储主席⼀职擦肩⽽过不过数⽉。据报道，特朗普在遴选美
联储主席⼈选时曾将 Zervos 列⼊考量，但最终于今年 1 ⽉选定 Kevin Warsh 出任该职。值得⼀提
的是， Warsh 在 2009 年 Zervos 重返美联储时正担任美联储理事，两⼈彼时是否有直接交集尚不
明确。
未能执掌美联储， Zervos 转⽽以顾问⾝份进⼊财政部，外界普遍认为这是他在政策圈延续影响
⼒的另⼀条路径。他在接受 CNBC 采访时⾃称 " 华尔街怪才 " ，并对这次政府任职表⽰期待。
政策⽴场：⼒挺回购、主张降息
Zervos 的政策主张与⻉森特的施政⽅向⾼度吻合，这或许正是他获得这⼀职位的重要原因。
⾸⻚ 资讯 快讯 ⾏情 ⽇历 APP VIP 会员 ⼤师课 ⽣活家 搜索

### Page 2

⻛险提⽰及免责条款
市场有⻛险，投资需谨慎。本⽂不构成个⼈投资建议，也未考虑到个别⽤⼾特殊的投资⽬标、财务状况或需要。⽤⼾应考虑本⽂
中的任何意⻅、观点或结论是否符合其特定状况。据此投资，责任⾃负。
72 收藏 分享到 :
写评论
图⽚
在国债市场政策上， Zervos 公开为⻉森特的⻓期国债回购计划背书。该计划旨在通过回购⻓期
国债来压制收益率上⾏，但在华尔街内部引发争议，批评者认为其效果存疑。 Zervos 的公开⽀
持，为这⼀饱受质疑的政策提供了来⾃市场资深⼈⼠的背书。
在货币政策⽴场上， Zervos 持续呼吁美联储降低利率。美联储本⽉加息的决定已令特朗普政府
内部部分⼈⼠感到不满，⽽ Zervos 的加⼊，意味着财政部在与美联储的政策博弈中多了⼀位具
有央⾏⼯作经历、同时倾向宽松⽴场的声⾳。
Zervos 的到来，也折射出财政部近期⼈事层⾯的持续动荡。据 CNBC 报道，截⾄ 8 ⽉中旬，财政
部 16 名需经参议院确认的官员中已有 7 ⼈离职，⻉森特⾃ 2025 年 1 ⽉就任以来已先后更换三位幕

僚⻓。此前担任顾问⼀职的华尔街经济学家 Joseph Lavorgna 于今年 3 ⽉离职，此次 Zervos 正是
接替这⼀空缺。
在国债收益率⾼企、美联储政策转向加息、内部⼈员流失加剧的多重压⼒下，⻉森特选择从华
尔街引⼊⼀位兼具市场公信⼒与政府经验的⽼将，其⽤意不难理解 —— 既是为财政部的政策⽴
场提供智识⽀撑，也是向市场传递稳定信号。
限免
请发表您的评论
表情 发布评论
