===== Page 1 =====

ss

Radhika Rao 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee - violetleeyh@dbs.com

Global oil benchmarks whipsawed sharply this 
week, book-ended by an initial rally in Brent 
crude to ~$120bbl before correcting sharply 
below $90bbl (see chart). Pullback was driven 
by indications from the US administration that 
the conflict in Iran might end soon, and that 
efforts are underway to step up oil supplies 
through waiver of selected sanctions, plans to 
dip into emergency stockpiles, and navy 
support for vessels through the Strait of 
Hormuz, amongst others. At the time of writing 
there was lack of clarity on the direction 
ahead, amidst mixed messages on the 
duration and intensity of the conflict.

DBS Group Research                                                                                                                  March 11, 2026

30 
Economics 
DBS Flash 
India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict 
Economics/Growth

• Oil prices have soared in recent weeks

• We see three channels of impact for 
India – risk sentiment, energy  pricing, 
and economic activity.

• VIX is off highs but  still elevated by 
historical comparisons.

• Along with crude oil, energy dependency 
extends to natural gas and LPG supplies 
from the region.

• We present scenarios on the economic 
impact, with the severity of the fallout to 
be dictated by duration of the conflict.

• Implications for markets: We expect 
weak risk uptake to weigh on the rupee.

• RBI will prefer to stay on a prolonged 
pause.

•


===== Page 2 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 2

Degrees of impact from the ongoing conflict

We covered the impact on the economy from 
the current geopolitical risks here, here and 
here. There are three channels of impact for 
India – risk sentiment, energy pricing, and 
economic activity, from a prolonged war in the 
Middle East, with the intensity of fallout to be 
guided by the duration of the conflict and 
extent of resultant supply shocks.

Risk sentiments

India’s VIX gauge remains at elevated levels, 
even if off highs (see chart), underscoring weak 
underlying risk sentiments. Domestic f inancial 
markets, including equity price action , bonds 
and rupee have f elt the heat from the o ngoing 
hostilities in the Middle East region. The 
currency had depreciated to a fresh low against 
the dollar, besides a tentative stabilisation in 
the benchmark equity indices after a sharp sell-
off. After a reprieve in February, foreign flows 
have reversed out in March in midst of fr esh 
geopolitical tensions (see chart).

To cap yields, the RBI conducted debt purchases 
via open market operations (OMO) worth INR 
500bn on 9-Mar helping to stabilise the bond 
markets and has scheduled another INR500bn 
for 12-Mar, ahead of heavy seasonal advance 
tax as well as GST related outflows due in the 
coming weeks. This infusion will also ease the 
drain from strong FX intervention and maturing 
FX forwards. Authorities have also been active 
participants in the secondary markets in 
February, pre -dating the conflict,  to rein in 
yields. The cumulative and sizeable scale of 
purchases have amounted to nearly three -
fourth of net borrowings for the year. In midst 
of broader risk dislocations, markets had begun 
to price in tighter interest rate conditions in the 
year ahead, though are likely to correct in the 
near-term.

We expect the central bank to stay on a 
prolonged pause on policy rates, while 
undertaking specific steps to ease market 
tensions. Outside of the geopolitical tensions, 
we continue to expect the rupee to 
underperform the regional pack, even as the 
broader dollar might stabilise.


===== Page 3 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 3

Energy pricing

For a start, India’s direct trade with Iran (led by 
food, pharma, animal feed exports  and 
petroleum product imports) has diminished in 
the past five years owing to the long -standing 
US sanctions (see chart).

Amongst key investment commitments, India 
was a major partner in the development and 
operation of the Chabahar Port on Iran’s 
southeastern coast, particularly to operate the 
Shahid Beheshti Terminal . While this 
investment is more strategic by nature rather 
than commercial, the exposure has faced the 
strain of sanctions by the West.

Trade linkages to the broader Middle East 
region remains more significant and 
important. Total trade with the GCC countries 
remains material (~15% of total trade) led by 
energy, machinery, gems & jewellery etc .  A 
tenth of overseas Indians live in the UAE; ~38% 
of remittances. Add to this, Indians make up a 
big chunk of merchant shipping crew.

Escalation in the Middle East tensions will pose 
supply risks to the broader hydrocarbon trade 
for the country, including exposure to crude 
oil, LNG and LPG markets. India is the third 
largest oil consumer globally, with a heavy 
reliance on crude imports. The country imports 
more than 85% of crude oil supplies, of which 
more than 55 -57% is from the Middle East 
countries (see chart) . Around h alf of crude 
supplies, which amounts to 2.5 -2.7mn/ day , 
travels through the Strait of Hormuz, largely 
from Iraq, Saudi Arabia, the UAE and Kuwait.


===== Page 4 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 4

Additionally, more than 50% of the LNG is 
imported (see chart), two-third of which comes 
from the Middle east, key amongst which are 
supplies from Qatar. Notably, India is the 
world's fourth -largest buyer of LNG , with the 
current share of gas in the overall energy mix at 
a modest 6.2% (plan to increase to 15% within 
this decade).

Lastly, two -third of LPG requirements are 
imported, which are in turn predominantly 
utilised by retail consumers (primarily cooking). 
With bulk of these resources passing by the 
Strait of Hormuz, indications that the vessel 
movements have grind to a near h alt will 
intensify worries over the extent of stockpiles 
and backup inventories (LNG is most difficult to 
store).

On the heels of the price volatility and looming 
supply shortages, measures are underway  
domestically to balance the available stock , 
including prioritising household gas use while 
industrial consumers face potential delays/ 
disruptions. Several gas-related industries have 
also recently announced force majeure, 
especially those heavily reliant on imported gas 
volumes, including for ins tance petrochemical 
companies and refineries.  Shortage in LPG 
supplies will largely impact retail consumers, 
with signs that the government has 20 -25 days 
of inventory. India’s emergency strategic 
petroleum reserves, managed by the state-run 
ISPRL, currently stands at ~ 30mn tonnes, 
according to officials cited by reports, with the


===== Page 5 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 5

storage is around 75-80% filled. Meanwhile, the 
government has reportedly no plans to join the 
International Energy Agency (IEA) initiative to 
release strategic oil reserves.  To backstop 
supplies, the US had reportedly  provided a 30 -
day waiver to India refiners to receive cargoes 
from Russia, of which oil is in afloat vessels. 
Indian authorities have, meanwhile, begun to 
seek alternate suppliers, for instance from Asia 
and Africa.

Economic/ macro channel – scenario analysis

The persistence and sustainability of high oil 
prices will play a key role in shaping the scale of 
the economic impact on countries. Earlier, oil 
markets had downplayed these risks, but they 
have now intensified as reports surface about 
infrastructure damage and delays in production 
in the Middle East.

Baseline forecasts for FY27 : Outside of the 
geopolitical developments, positive high 
frequency indicators, revised GDP numbers and 
the court ruling on tariffs which had lowered 
the effective tariff on India prompt ed us to 
revise up FY27 real GDP growth to 7% (from 
6.5% earlier). CPI inflation stands at 4% and 
current account deficit is expected to widen 
from an estimated -1.0% of GDP to -1.3% of GDP 
in FY27, factoring in moderation in service trade 
receipts. Encouragingly, the economy’s oil 
intensity has reduced from the past, as signaled 
by the moderation in the net oil imports. As it 
stands, net oil imports stood at $123bn ( ~3.1% 
of GDP) in FY25.

Sensitivities: As a start, crude oil prices at $80 -
$85bbl will be manageable, while the economic 
impact will be most acute if prices average 
north of $100bbl for the coming months. 
Baseline assumption in the RBI’s monetary 
policy report in Oct25 stood at $70bbl in second 
half of FY26, as g lobal crude oil prices had 
exhibited a declining trend easing from $77bbl 
in early -Apr25 to $68bbl in Sep25. Official 
estimates are that a 10% increase in crude oil 
prices vs the baseline, and assuming full pass -
through to  domestic product prices, CPI 
inflation could turn out to be higher by ~30 bps 
and growth may be lower by around 15 bps. Fo 
the CAD, a $10bl increase could push by the 
shortfall by 0.35% of GDP.

Scenario analysis
Oil price US$80/bbl US$90/bbl US$100/bbl
GDP (change, ppt) -0.15 -0.25 -0.40
CPI (change, % ppt) +0.25 +0.35 +0.5
Current account/GDP 
(change, % ppt) -0.35 -0.50 -0.60
Source: RBI, press, DBS; estimates vs FY27 baseline assumptions


===== Page 6 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 6

The extent of impact on inflation will be 
dictated by who picks the incremental cost 
burden. India had undertaken measures to 
reform its fuel sector by deregulating petrol and 
diesel prices, allowing them to align with 
market rates to reduce fiscal deficits and losses 
of the upstream oil marketing companies. This 
helped to lower the fiscal burden on the 
government’s books, with total subsidies 
accounting to 1.2 -1.3% of GDP, of which 
petroleum is almost negligible at l ess than 3% 
of the total. However, in th e event of a sharp 
rise in global fuel prices, authorities are likely to 
be cautious about fully passing on higher costs 
to consumers. The need to protect household 
purchasing power and support businesses as 
well as a packed state election calendar in 1H26 
may prompt a more measured approach to 
retail fuel price adjustments, with the initial rise 
likely to be absorbed by the oil marketing 
companies (could lower dividend contribution). 
As an alternate to raising retail prices, excise 
duty cuts might be consi dered (for instance 
INR3/l reduction will amount to ~0.1% of GDP).

BOP dynamics : As highlighted above, the 
current account balance is likely to face a wider 
energy bill, pushing up the goods import bill. 
Concurrently, with the region making up ~40% 
of total remittances, inflows under this segment 
faces a second order impact  if the conflict 
prolongs. As it stands, prior to the geopolitical 
tensions, financing flows for the current 
account gap were a bigger concern than the 
scale of the trade balance shortfall, with this 
likely to remain as a key flashpoint. A 
concurrent red uction in portfolio flows, 
narrowing net FDI and offshore borrowings 
crimped by a rise in costs/ hedging costs could 
keep the overall BOP in red in FY27.

Conclusion

Geopolitical developments are fluid at this 
juncture, with the economic impact on India to 
be dictated by how the long the conflict lasts 
and which countries in the Middle East are 
engulfed in these hostilities. A lift in Strait of 
Hormuz blockages might h elp to restore 
supplies but with a significant lag time.


===== Page 7 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 7


===== Page 8 =====

India: Assessing the impact from the Middle East conflict March 11, 2026

f   Page 8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .


===== Page 9 =====

ss

Chua Han Teng, CFA 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

Geopolitical risks have intensified significantly 
in March amid the ongoing escalation of Middle 
East tensions sparked by US -Israeli military 
strikes on Iran. Global oil and gas prices have 
surged on the back of the Iran-centred conflict, 
which is already disrupt ing energy shipments 
through the Straits of Hormuz  - the world’s 
most critical energy chokepoint , with ~20% of 
global oil and gas flows transiting through it.  
Singapore will be negatively impacted from 
the wider Middle East disruption. W e assess 
the impact to be felt more through the 
inflation channel, given Singapore’s position as 
a price taker that is highly dependent on 
energy imports.  Nonetheless, the economy is 
confronting this uncertainty from a relatively 
strong position, amid solid growth momentum 
buoyed by global artificial intelligence -related 
tailwinds, still-low inflation , healthy external 
metrics, and ample policy space in early 2026.

DBS Group Research                           March 10, 2026 
30 
Economics & Strategy 
DBS Flash 
Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation 
Economics/GDP/Inflation

• Singapore’s economy is confronting the 
Middle East uncertainty from a 
relatively strong position.

• It is exposed to the global energy shock 
due to its status as a price taker and its 
high import dependency, although risks 
are partly mitigated by diversified 
supply.

• Direct goods exports exposure to the 
Middle East is limited.

• Oil price s remaining at ~USD100/bbl 
would likely lift inflation more than they 
would depress economic growth.

• Policy space  is ample to tackle this 
shock.


===== Page 10 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 2

Energy supply and trade exposure 
Singapore is exposed to the current global 
energy shock due to its high import 
dependency, although risks are partly 
mitigated by diversified supply. It relies heavily 
on natural gas for electricity generation, 
accounting for >90% of the energy mix , with 
costs tied to oil prices by commercial contracts.

Singapore’s liquified natural gas (LNG) import 
mix is well distributed . A lthough Qatar 
accounted for ~25% share in volume terms as of 
2024 (with some news sources citing >40% 
share in 2025) , other key supply sources 
included Australia, Mozambique, and the US . 
Pipeline natural gas supplies from Indonesia 
and Malaysia , which together accounted for 
43% of overall natural gas imports  in 202 5, 
provide an additional buffer. However, crude oil 
imports are more exposed to the Middle East, 
with ~50% in total coming from the UAE, Qatar, 
and Saudi Arabia in 2024, although the US was 
also another notable supplier.

Singapore’s direct goods exports exposure to 
the Middle East is limited, accounting for ~1.5% 
of the total in 2025 . This suggests that a 
demand shock in the Middle East is unlikely to 
place significant downside pressure on exports.


===== Page 11 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 3

Macroeconomic implications 
The global energy price shock  in an event  of a 
protracted Middle East conflict  would likely 
raise Singapore’s inflation  more than it would 
depress economic growth, in our view . If Brent 
crude oil price remains at around USD100/bbl  
for the rest of the year, we estimate that 
Singapore’s headline inflation could rise by 
around 1.5 percentage points (pp), while real 
GDP growth could be lower ed by 0.4 pp (see 
‘Macro Insights Weekly: Asia’s vulnerability to 
the Iran crisis’  for additional analysis for other 
Asian economies). 
Singapore’s consumers and export -oriented 
firms will have to brace for higher electricity, 
transport-fuel, and shipping costs arising from 
the increase in global energy prices and supply 
chain disruptions from the Middle East conflict. 
We estimate around 7+% of the overall CPI 
basket would likely be directly impacted by 
higher energy prices.  Manufacturers are 
already facing capacity and supply chain 
constraints, as reflected in the sharper 
contraction in the supplier deliveries sub -index 
of the February manufacturing purchasing 
managers’ index at 49.6 – the lowest in about 
two years since early 2024.  The escalation in 
geopolitical tensions only heightens the risks of 
further disruptions that could dampen factory 
and trade growth.  
However, Singapore’s energy intensity per  unit 
of GDP has been declining over the years due to 
improvements in energy efficiency. Considering 
Singapore’s net oil and gas trade position, a 
potentially higher oil and gas import bill from 
the price spike could be offset by increased 
export revenues amid improved refining 
margins, even though the chemical sector faces 
disruptions.

Policy implications 
Singapore has ample policy space to tackle the 
external shock  from Middle East geopolitical 
uncertainty. On fiscal policy,  we think the 
government has significant room to deploy 
targeted cost-of-living support measures,  
should energy-driven inflation place meaningful 
pressures on households  over the coming 
months, consistent with its response in past 
high inflation periods in 2022 and 2023 . Fiscal 
space is supported by its healthy public 
finances, having budgeted an overall fiscal 
surplus of 1.0% of GDP in FY2026, distinguishing 
Singapore from more fiscally constrained 
ASEAN economies.  
On monetary policy, i mported price pressures 
should continue to be dampened by the 
ongoing appreciation of the Singapore dollar 
nominal effective exchange rate  (SGD NEER) , 
following the Monetary Authority of Singapore 
(MAS)’s decisions to maintain the policy band’s 
appreciation in January 2026, as well as October 
and July 202 5. However, t he recent spike in 
global energy prices is starting to complicate 
the MAS’s policy bias towards earlier 
tightening.


===== Page 12 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 4


===== Page 13 =====

Singapore: Assessing the risks from Middle East escalation March 10, 2026

Page 5

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability. 18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .

Sources: Data for all charts and tables are from CEIC, Bloomberg and DBS Group Research (forecasts and 
transformations)


===== Page 14 =====

Ma Tieying, CFA
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to Violet Lee 
+65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

The ongoing conflict involving Iran and the 
US/Israel has immediately impacted global 
energy markets and maritime trade. Roughly 
20–30% of the world’s crude oil and liquefied 
natural gas (LNG) passes through the Strait of 
Hormuz, and disruptions there have  reduced 
the flow of Middle Eastern oil and LNG. Markets 
have responded, pushing Brent crude and other 
benchmarks higher. Meanwhile, insurers have 
withdrawn war -risk coverage, and major 
carriers have suspended Gulf transits, creating 
vessel backlogs and hi gher freight costs. 
Alternative routes around Africa increase 
transit time and costs, although shipping and 
logistics are gradually adjusting to these 
challenges.

Energy exposure

Taiwan is highly exposed to  oil price shock s 
due to its energy structure . The island relies 
heavily on thermal power , which accounts for 
around 85% of electricity generation. Although 
renewable capacity has expanded in recent 
years, much of the increase has offset the 
phase-down of nuclear power rather than 
materially reducing fossil fuel dependence.

Nearly all thermal fuel inputs are imported . 
Net fuel imports accounted for around 4% of 
nominal GDP in 2025, among the highest ratios 
in Asia, leaving the economy sensitive to 
sustained increases in global energy prices and 
shipping costs. 
Group Research  
30 
March 5, 2026 
Economics & Strategy  
DBS Flash 
Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks 
Economics/growth/monetary 
• Taiwan is highly exposed to oil price 
shocks amid the Iran conflict , with heavy 
reliance on thermal power, almost entirely 
imported, and a large share of crude oil and 
LNG sourced from the Middle East.

• Direct export exposure to the Middle East 
is minimal, while structural technology 
trends continue to support Taiwan’s 
exports.

• An oil price shock would pressure 
Taiwan’s “Goldilocks” mix of strong growth 
and contained inflation, but is far from 
causing stagflation.

• The central bank retains monetary policy 
flexibility.

• Forecast implications:  We maintain our 
2026 GDP growth forecast of 7.0%, while 
seeing upside risks to our inflation forecast 
of 1.5%.


===== Page 15 =====

Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks                                                                                            March 5, 2026

Page 2

Taiwan sources roughly 70% of its crude oil 
from the Middle East —particularly Saudi 
Arabia, Kuwait, and the UAE —and about 30% 
of its LNG from Qatar . A prolonged disruption 
in Hormuz would tighten supply and raise costs, 
although strategic reserves and diversified 
suppliers reduce the risk of severe shortages.

Higher input costs would raise electricity tariffs 
and production costs, particularly for energy -
intensive sectors such as petrochemicals, steel, 
and semiconductor fabrication. Households 
would face higher energy bills, although 
government subsidies and ongoing wage 
growth should help cushion the impact.

Trade exposure

Taiwan’s direct export exposure to the Middle 
East is minimal, accounting for less than 1% of 
total exports in 2025. Europe accounts for 
around 6%, suggesting that shipping disruptions 
in the Red Sea or Suez Canal would have only a 
limited first-round impact on trade volumes. 
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Coal Oil Natural gas
Hydro Nuclear Renewable
Taiwan: Electricity supply 
Sources: CEIC, DBS
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
CN HK IN ID JP SG SK TW
%
Asia: Net fuel imports/nominal GDP (2025)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Saudi 
Arabia, 
28.9
Kuwait, 
13.6
US, 28.3
Oman, 7.9
Iraq, 1.3 UAE, 11.9
Qatar, 6.0 Others, 
2.1
Taiwan: Crude oil imports by source (2025)
Sources: CEIC, DBS
Qatar, 
33.7
Indonesia, 
2.0Papua 
New 
Guinea, 
7.9Brunei, 2.8
Australia, 
33.5
Russia, 
1.8
US, 9.9 Others, 
8.5
Taiwan: LNG imports by source (2025)
Sources: CEIC, DBS


===== Page 16 =====

Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks                                                                                            March 5, 2026

Page 3

The larger risk comes from second -order 
effects of higher global energy costs . Elevated 
oil prices act as a tax on consumption, reducing 
household purchasing power in key markets 
such as the US and Europe. This could dampen 
demand for consumer electronics, PCs, and 
smartphones. However, structural technology 
trends continue to support Taiwan’s exports . 
AI-related investment, data centers, and 
industrial policy -driven growth provide a 
cushion, helping offset a slowdown in 
traditional electronics exports.

Macro implications

An oil price shock would weigh on Taiwan’s 
“Goldilocks” mix of strong growth and 
contained inflation, but it is far from triggering 
stagflation. If oil stabilizes around US$80/bbl, 
GDP growth could slow by roughly 0.3ppt, with 
CPI rising about 0.4ppt. If oil reaches 
US$100/bbl and remains at that level for the 
rest of the year, GDP growth could decline by 
about 0.9ppt, and inflation could rise aro und 
1.3ppt. These estimates exclude additional drag 
from weaker global demand, which could 
further affect exports and GDP.

The central bank retains flexibility . With a 
base-case GDP growth forecast of 7% and CPI at 
1.5%, the risk of inflation exceeding 2% may 
initially outweigh the risk of growth falling 
below potential (~3%), supporting a bias toward 
tightening. If external demand weakens and 
export momentum sl ows, policymakers can 
pivot toward easing to stabilize growth.

Market implications

Financial markets remain another channel of 
adjustment. Taiwan’s equity valuations are 
high, with total market capitalization of the 
TWSE exceeding 300% of nominal GDP. 
Heightened geopolitical risks may prompt 
global investors to reduce exposure to high -
beta markets. Still, strong corporate earnings 
and techn ology sector growth provide 
resilience, helping the market absorb shocks 
without destabilizing the broader economy.

Related reports:

Taiwan: Asia’s growth champion 
Taiwan: A historic trade deal 
Taiwan: Semiconductor tariffs come into effect 
Taiwan 2026 outlook: Betting on AI

0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025
Asia North America
Central America South America
Europe Middle East
Taiwan: Exports by market
Sources: CEIC, DBS


===== Page 17 =====

Taiwan: Navigating oil price shocks                                                                                            March 5, 2026

Page 4


===== Page 18 =====

Page 5

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability.  18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .


===== Page 19 =====

Chua Han Teng, CFA        
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

Group Research  
30 
  February 19, 2026 
Economics 
Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook 
Economics/Growth/Inflation/Monetary 
• Thai real GDP growth rose to 2.5% yoy in 4Q25 due to improved domestic demand . 
Nonetheless, full-year growth eased to 2.4% in 2025.  
• Private and government consumption w ere boosted by stimulus in 4Q25, but household 
spending will likely be constrained by income challenges and high debt in 2026.  
• Good exports, while strong, eased in 4Q25, and will face headwinds from the lagged impact 
of US tariffs in 2026. The recovery in foreign tourism will likely be gradual. 
• High likelihood of policy continuity after the Bhumjaithai Party’s decisive electoral victory.  
• We expect the dovish BOT to cut its policy rate by 25bps to 1.00% in 2026, but will likely hold 
in February to preserve policy space after the better-than-expected 4Q25 growth.  
• Forecast implications:  We maintain our 2026 forecasts for real GDP growth and headline 
inflation at 1.6% and 0.5%, respectively.


===== Page 20 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 2

Real GDP growth 
External demand growth in 4Q25 eased further 
for the third consecutive quarter . Goods 
exports, while strong, decelerated, and services 
exports remained in contraction.

Real GDP growth rose to 2.5% yoy in 4Q25, up 
from 1.2% yoy in 3Q . However, growth for full-
year 2025 eased to 2.4% . W e maintain our 
forecast for slower growth of 1.6% in 2026, 
given various challenges.

Overall growth  was boosted by improved 
domestic demand in 4Q25. Private consumption 
and government consumption were lifted by 
temporary stimulus support. Investment growth 
surged to the highest in 10 years.

The pick-up in economic expansion was driven 
by a rebound in the industrial and services 
sectors in 4Q25 . The agriculture sector was 
negatively impacted by weather disruptions.


===== Page 21 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 3

Goods exports 
Thai electronics exports have been supported 
by global artificial intelligence (AI) -related 
external tailwinds . While these tailwinds 
remain supportive, there are risks of excessive 
exuberance.

Regional goods exports performed well in 2025 
despite the US tariff roller coaster. However, 
strong Thai export growth eased over the course 
of 2025 . Thai shipments  will face headwinds 
from the lagged impact of US tariffs in 2026.

Thai goods exports benefitted from accelerating 
momentum to the US  in 2025 , but this trend 
looks unsustainable in 2026.

Sentiment among Thai industries more exposed 
to exports remain s cautious despite strong 
export growth, like ly due to the still -uncertain 
global trade policy landscape.


===== Page 22 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 4

Investment 
Quarterly investment growth in 4Q25 
accelerated to a 10 -year high, driven by both 
public and private sectors . We will have to 
watch if the strong momentum can be sustained 
in 2026.

Private investment was mainly supported by an 
increase in machinery and equipment at the end 
of 2025 . However, an uncertain domestic and 
external landscape could dampen i nvestor 
sentiment.

# Policies Description # Policies Description
1
Small & Low-Income 
Support (Small 
Business & Welfare 
Plus)
Support for small businesses and low-income 
households through reforms to the state welfare 
card, continued co-payment (Half-Price Plus) 
scheme, electricity subsidies (capped at 3 THB per 
unit for the first 200 units), government savings 
bonds and savings incentives, and fast debt 
consolidation to reduce financial burdens.
6 Green Economy Plus
Supporting environmentally friendly economic 
activity, clean energy (e.g., solar and EV sectors), a 
carbon market, and incentives for green businesses 
to promote sustainable growth.
2 Made in Thailand 
SMEs Plus
Strengthening Thai SMEs with capital injections, 
easier loan guarantees, improved market access, and 
support to help locally-made goods succeed 
domestically and abroad.
7 Digital & AI Plus
Expanding access to AI and digital tools to improve 
productivity, income opportunities, and new job 
creation.
3 Investment Plus
Boosting investment (targeting around 30 % of GDP 
within four years), including public-private co-
investment and incentives to attract both domestic 
and foreign investment, especially in future 
industries.
8 Equal Education 
Plus
Genuine free education with built-in pathways to 
employment — including online platforms, skills 
training, and job linkage programs.
4 Produce & Sell Plus
Enhancing production of the right goods and 
ensuring they meet consumer demand, along with 
support for local production tailored to market 
needs.
9 Senior Citizens Plus
Policies to enhance employment, income, care, and 
tax benefits for senior citizens (e.g., tax deductions 
for hiring seniors, incentives for elderly employment, 
community caregiver programs, and development of 
senior care centers).
5 Trade Plus
Promoting smart, high-value trade, upgrading the 
production base, and expanding Thai exports via 
mutually beneficial international partnerships.
10
Thailand Plus 
(Regulatory & 
Governance 
Reform)
Streamlining regulations, accelerating approvals, and 
creating a more investment-friendly environment to 
support a “new economy” and increase Thailand’s 
competitiveness.
The Bhumjaithai Party's Economy 10 Plus Policies
Source: News, DBS compilation
The Bhumjaithai Party looks likely to lead the new coalition government after  its decisive victory 
during the elections on 8 February. We see increased likelihood of political stability with a 
technocratic government to implement its proposed economic policies, but execution remains key.


===== Page 23 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 5

Tourism and Private consumption 
Consumer confidence recovered slightly in 
4Q25 due to government stimulus, but will 
likely be  cautious in early 2026 amid income 
challenges due to economic uncertainty.

Thailand’s foreign tourism is starting 2026 on a 
soft note , following the gradual increase in 
4Q25. The outlook is for a modest improvement 
in 2026, but a strong baht could pose 
competitiveness challenges.

The kingdom  faces challenges in attracting 
Chinese tourists , having been impacted by 
safety concerns, and is also losing them to 
regional destinations . The recovery in Chinese 
tourists will likely be gradual.

Private consumption was temporarily boosted 
by durable goods , notably vehicle sales . 
However, purchasing power remains fragile 
amid cautious consumer sentiment , and high 
household debt.


===== Page 24 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 6

Inflation and Monetary policy 
While we think the Bank of Thailand (BOT) will 
cut its policy interest rate again in 2026  to 
support growth , we see little urgency to  ease 
monetary policy in February after the stronger-
than-expected growth rebound in 4Q25.

Headline inflation remains negative for the 10 th 
consecutive month as of January 2026. This was 
due to supply -side factors, although demand -
pull pressures were also weak. We maintain our 
forecast of 0.5% for 2026.

Lower energy prices, including fuel and electric 
tariffs, are the key supply -side factor 
dampening headline inflation . Food prices face 
some upside pressure from weather disruptions. 
Core CPI is only edging up gradually.

Real policy interest rates in Thailand are not low, 
even as the BOT has eased monetary policy by 
125bps since October 2024. There is still room 
for rate cuts, although policy space is 
diminishing.


===== Page 25 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 7


===== Page 26 =====

Thailand chartbook: Firmer 4Q25 growth, Cautious outlook February 19, 2025

Page 8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, 
the “Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not 
make any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness 
for any particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for 
general circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, 
financial situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the 
information of addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution for the exercise of judgement by addressees, who 
should obtain separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals 
connected with the group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential,  incidental damages or any 
other loss or damages of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or 
misstatement herein, negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other 
person has been advised of the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a 
solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any 
investment advice or services. The Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have 
positions or other interests in, and may effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek 
to perform broking, investment banking an d other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information 
herein is not directed to, or intended for distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or 
located in any locality, state, country, or other jurisdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United 
States of America) where such distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The 
information is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not 
limited to the United States of America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability. 18th Floor, The Center, 
99 Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection 
regime does not a pply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before 
engaging in such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .     
Sources: Data for all charts and tables are from CEIC, Bloomberg and DBS Group Research (forecasts and 
transformations)


===== Page 27 =====

ss

Chua Han Teng, CFA 
Senior Economist

Please direct distribution queries to  
Violet Lee +65 68785281 violetleeyh@dbs.com

We view Budget 2026 as a strategic, forward -
looking plan that sharpens Singapore’s 
economic competitiveness and strengthens 
the social compact under the Forward 
Singapore agenda, underpinned by fiscal 
discipline. By laying out the policy toolkit to 
advance the long -term direction and 
recommendations in the Economic Strategy 
Review (ESR) Mid -term Update, it positions 
Singapore to b etter navigate an increasingly 
complex and fractured global landscape amid 
domestic constraints . At the same time, 
continued social support aims to strengthen 
inclusion. We highlight six key takeaways. 
1) Leveraging artificial intelligence (AI) 
AI, featured prominently within the seven 
recommendations of the ESR Mid-term Update, 
is a major focus in Budget 2026 . Key policies in 
the budget aim  to leverage technology to 
power Singapore’s next phase of economic 
growth. We believe  harnessing AI effectively 
across the economy will boost productivity – a 
crucial driver of competitiveness and growth 
over the next decade – as Singapore’s mature 
economy faces increasingly binding land and 
labour constraints. 
Co-ordinated efforts, including the formation of 
a National AI Council chaired by the Prime 
Minister, new national AI Missions across four 
strategic sectors, and the establishment of an AI 
park, aim to position Singapore strategically as 
a global AI leader, driving innovation while 
enabling effective and targeted deployment of 
AI at greater scale  and speed . A notable 
enhancement is expanding the Productivity 
 DBS Group Research                        February 13, 2026 
30 
Economics 
DBS Focus 
Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies 
Economics/GDP/Fiscal 
• Budget 2026 is pragmatic and forward -
looking, sharpening economic 
competitiveness and strengthening the 
social compact.

• Strategic plans to harness AI, spur 
internationalisation, and boost 
enterprise funding aligned with the 
Economic Strategy Review are 
encouraging.

• Social support  is reinforced with 
continued assurances and targeted aid.

• Fiscal discipline is reaffirmed with an 
overall surplus for the third consecutive 
year in FY2026.

• The government projects an overall 
fiscal surplus of SGD8.5bn (1.0% of GDP) 
in FY2026, compared to SGD15.1bn 
(1.9% of GDP) in FY2025.


===== Page 28 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 2

Solutions Grant (PSG) , which has been key in 
helping small and medium -sized enterprises 
(SMEs) implement digital and automation 
solutions to raise productivity over the years.  
Expanding the PSG to allow firms of any size to 
access AI -enabled tools will help to defray AI 
adoption costs and therefore incentivise 
enterprise-wide adoption, particularly among 
SMEs, which have lagged large corporates.

Building an AI-ready workforce will also be a key 
ingredient for broad-based AI utilisation across 
the economy . To encourage wide -spread 
learning, familiarity , and usage of AI, 
Singaporeans who undergo selected training 
courses will receive six months of free access to 
premium AI tools , supported by  a redesigned 
SkillsFuture website to help learners better 
identify suitable AI courses . The expansion of 
TechSkills Accelerator  for mid -career workers 
will gradually  diffuse AI capabilities into non -
tech sectors , starting with accountancy and 
legal professions before extending to other 
fields.

2) Spurring internationalisation and increasing 
capital availability 
Strengthening connectivity and aggressively 
supporting internationalisation is another key 
recommendation in the ESR Mid -term Update. 
Enhanced internationalisation schemes, such as 
the Market Readiness Assistance Grant and the 
Double Tax Deduction for Internationalisation 
scheme, will support the ambitions of 
Singapore enterprises , as they aim to expand 
into new overseas markets and diversify 
revenue streams for greater growth, as well as 
build resilience amid global uncertainty and a 
limited domestic market. This 
internationalisation momentum is evident, 
with around eight in 10 SMEs planning 
overseas expansion in 2026, according to a 
recent DBS Business Pulse Check survey. 
The ESR Mid -term Update also recommends 
sustaining a vibrant startup ecosystem  through 
increased enterprise capital availability. Various 
enhancements and top -ups to the Startup SG 
Equity Scheme  (SGD1.0bn), the Anchor Fund  
(SGD1.5bn), and the Financial  Sector 
Development Fund (FSDF) (SGD1.5bn) broaden 
access to funding from private to public 
markets, supporting companies’ growth 
ambitions. Boosting the Equity Market 
Development Programme (EQDP) via the FSDF 
will add impetus to the ongoing revival of the 
public equities market. 
3) Committed to green transition 
Budget 2026 reaffirms Singapore’s steadfast 
commitment to the green transition  and 
sustainability. The city continues to make 
progress towards its long -term target for net 
zero emissions by 2050.  The government is 
therefore raising the 2030 solar deployment 
target to 3 gigawatt-peak, after reaching the


===== Page 29 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 3

target of 2 g igawatt-peak well ahead of 
schedule. It also reiterated its goal of achieving 
100% cleaner energy vehicles by 2040 . The 
extension of the Energy Efficiency Grant and 
green loans support under the Enterprise 
Financing Scheme will provide business es with 
key financial support to adopt green solutions.  
Singapore will press on with increasing the 
carbon tax to spur decarbonisation  from the 
current SGD45/tonne. Yet, Budget 2026 signals 
that the carbon tax may be positioned at the 
lower end of its projected SGD50 -80/tonne 
range by 2030, giving businesses greater clarity 
for planning future carbon costs. 
4) Alleviating business cashflows and costs 
With economic resilience still possibly  likely to 
be tested this year amid external uncertainty , 
the government will provide a slightly reduced 
corporate income tax rebate , which we expect  
to continue supporting firms’ cashflow needs.  
Companies are also likely to be prudent on cost 
management, particularly manpower -related 
expenses. In this regard, 
enhancements/extensions to various schemes, 
such as  the Progressive Wage Credit Scheme , 
the Senior Employment Credit , and the CPF 
Transition Offset, will help shoulder wage costs, 
amid efforts to uplift lower-wage workers and 
encourage the continued employment of senior 
workers. 
5) Strengthen social compact 
Government efforts to strengthen the social 
compact by mitigating inequality and 
strengthening inclusion are evident in the 
budget policies . Key initiatives include raising 
the Local Qualifying Salary to uplift the incomes 
of lower-wage workers, increasing the monthly 
household income threshold for pre-school 
education subsidies, and  enhancing the 
ComLink+ Progress Packages for families. The 
latest round of targeted assistance, including 
cash payments, U -Save rebates, and CDC 
vouchers, builds on earlier support frameworks 
and provides timely cushion and relief to 
households facing ongoing cost pressures. 
6) Strong fiscal position 
Budget 2026, the first fiscal plan of the new 
term of government, strikes a balance 
between calibrated, targeted policy support 
and fiscal discipline.  The government’s 
budgeted overall fiscal surplus of SGD8.5bn 
(1.0% of GDP) for FY2026 marks the third 
consecutive year of surplus, extending the 
positive public financial performance of recent 
years, even amid increased focus on various 
spending priorities . The fiscal impulse is 
assessed to be mildly expansionary in FY2026.

Based on outcomes from FY2021 to FY2024 and 
higher revised surplus of SGD15.1bn for 
FY2025, we estimate that the government is 
poised to cumulatively accumulate a strong 
overall positive fiscal position of SGD22.3bn 
over its previous term. This reflects Singapore’s 
robust and resilient economic performance 
despite global turbulence.


===== Page 30 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 4

Healthy public finances and fiscal strength 
remain a key competitive advantage, 
providing the crucial policy space to deliver 
bold, strategic plans to navigate the significant 
shifts in an increasingly complex global 
environment. 
As a share of GDP, t otal revenues (comprising 
operating revenue and Net Investment Returns 
Contribution, NIRC) will remain strong , and 
continue outstrip ping total spending 
(comprising total expenditure and special 
transfers) of 18.9% , despite falling slightly  to 
19.4% in FY2026  from 19.7% in FY2025. 
Corporate income tax revenues will remain the 
largest revenue contributor, sustaining at 
above 4% of GDP for the fourth consecutive 
fiscal year . The government expects higher 
corporate tax collections in FY2027 with the 
implementation of the Top-up Tax under Pillar 
Two of BEPS . Total revenues will also be 
bolstered by the NIRC at a stable 3.4% of GDP.

However, the government’s spending needs 
will rise over time to meet top priorities in areas 
such as defence, healthcare, education, and the 
economy. Amid an unstable world due to rising 
geopolitical uncertainty, Singapore will increase 
its defence spending to 3.0% of GDP in FY2026. 
It expects security -related expenditures to rise 
in the coming years to keep Singapore safe and 
secure, and is prepared to allocate more if 
needed. Healthcare spending will rise to 2.7% of 
GDP in FY2026 from around 2.4-2.5% of GDP in 
the preceding four years, and is also poised to 
face upward pressures as Singapore tackles 
demographic challenges from a rapidly aging 
population.

Special transfers  will decline for the third 
consecutive year to 2.6% of GDP in FY2026, but 
the government continues to make strategic 
top-ups and investments to support long -term 
economic strategies and priorities . These 
include additional allocations to the Changi 
Airport Development Fund  (SGD6bn) to boost 
air connectivity, as well as the National 
Productivity Fund  (SGD6bn) and National 
Research Fund (SGD5bn) to drive research and 
development as well as innovation.


===== Page 31 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 5

Singapore's overall fiscal position
Actual Budgeted
FY2024 FY2026
SGD bn SGD bn SGD bn SGD bn % change
Operating revenue 115.5 130.9 134.8 3.9 3.0
Less:
Total expenditure 112.3 124.5 137.3 12.9 10.3
Operating expenditure 88.9 97.5 103.3 5.8 6.0
Developmental expenditure 23.4 27.0 34.0 7.1 26.1
Primary surplus/deficit 3.2 6.4 -2.6
Less:
Special transfers 25.0 23.4 21.7 -1.6 -7.0
Special transfers excluding top-ups to 
endownment and trust funds 3.0 3.8 2.8
Basic surplus/deficit 0.3 2.6 -5.4
Top-ups to endownment & trust 22.1 19.6 18.9
Add:
Net investment returns contribution 24.1 27.5 28.5 0.9 3.4
Overall budget surplus/deficit 2.3 10.6 4.2
Add:
Capitalisation of nationally significant 
infrastructure 4.2 5.0 5.0
Less:
SINGA interest costs & loan expenses 0.4 0.5 0.7
Overall fiscal position 6.1 15.1 8.5
Overall balance as % of GDP 0.8 1.9 1.0
Source: MOF
Revised 
FY2025
Change over
Revised FY2025


===== Page 32 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 6

# Recommendations Details
1 Extend our lead and establish global 
leadership in key growth sectors
• Harness Al, automation and sustainable technologies to 
transform advanced manufacturing
• Tap on our reputation to grow a trust industry
• Capture higher-value jobs and new opportunities for 
Singaporeans
2
Boldly pursue emerging opportunities to 
create new engines that can push the 
growth frontier of our economy
• Invest in areas such as quantum and space tech
• Attract and nurture globally-leading enterprises
• Sustain a vibrant start-up ecosystem and entrepreneurial 
culture, with more support for high-potential start-ups
3 Establish Singapore as an AI leader with an 
AI-empowered economy
• Position Singapore as a place to develop, test, deploy and 
scale impactful Al solutions
• Drive Al adoption across the economy to lift productivity
• Support firms and SMEs to transform and benefit from Al
4
Strengthen connectivity and linkages to 
global markets, and more aggressively 
support firms to internationalise
• Invest in transport hubs and networks for new supply chain 
opportunities
• Strengthen trade cooperation
• Help firms venture overseas and bring value back to 
Singapore through higher-value jobs and additional revenue 
5 Broaden the range of good jobs in our 
economy
• Uplift and transform jobs in sectors that can better 
withstand global shifts 
• Including jobs in skilled trades and care and social services
• Nurture a new generation of founders to build the next 
wave of enterprises and jobs
6
Make lifelong learning a practical reality 
and empower every worker to take charge 
of their career
• Make lifelong learning a practical reality by blending training 
with work
• Build Al literacy across the workforce 
• Strengthen career transition support via better career 
guidance, job matching and placement services
7 Enable our businesses to proactively 
navigate transitions
• Help firms better understand and shift to more viable 
opportunities as the economy restructures
• Review tools and resources available to business leaders
Economic Strategy Review (ESR) Mid-term Update
Source: Singapore government


===== Page 33 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 7


===== Page 34 =====

Singapore Budget 2026: Future-focused strategies February 13, 2026

Page 8

The information herein is published by DBS Bank Ltd and/or DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (each and/or collectively, the 
“Company”). It is based on information obtained from sources believed to be reliable, but the Company does not make 
any representation or  warranty, express or implied, as to its accuracy, completeness, timeliness or correctness for any 
particular purpose. Opinions expressed are subject to change without notice. This research is prepared for general 
circulation.  Any recommendation contained herein does not have regard to the specific investment objectives, financial 
situation and the particular needs of any specific addressee. The information herein is published for the information of 
addressees only and is not to be taken in substitution fo r the exercise of judgement by addressees, who should obtain 
separate legal or financial advice. The Company, or any of its related companies or any individuals connected with the 
group accepts no liability for any direct, special, indirect, consequential, incidental damages or any other loss or damages 
of any kind arising from any use of the information herein (including any error, omission or misstatement herein, 
negligent or otherwise) or further communication thereof, even if the Company or any other person has been advised of 
the possibility thereof. The information herein is not to be construed as an offer or a solicitation of an offer to buy or sell 
any securities, futures, options or other financial instruments or to provide any investment advice or services. The 
Company and its associates, their directors, officers and/or employees may have positions or other interests in, and may 
effect transactions in securities mentioned herein and may also perform or seek to perform broking, investment banking 
and other banking or financial services for these companies.  The information herein is not directed to, or intended for 
distribution to or use by, any person or entity that is a citizen or resident of or located in any locality, state, country, or 
other jur isdiction (including but not limited to citizens or residents of the United States of America) where such 
distribution, publication, availability or use would be contrary to law or regulation.  The information is not an offer to sell 
or the solicitation of  an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction (including but not limited to the United States of 
America) where such an offer or solicitation would be contrary to law or regulation.

[#for Distribution in Singapore] This report is distributed in Singapore by DBS Bank Ltd (Company Regn. No. 196800306E) 
which is Exempt Financial Advisers as defined in the Financial Advisers Act and regulated by the Monetary Authority of 
Singapore. DBS Ba nk Ltd may distribute reports produced by its respective foreign entities, affiliates or other foreign 
research houses pursuant to an arrangement under Regulation 32C of the Financial Advisers Regulations. Where the 
report is distributed in Singapore to a person who is not an Accredited Investor, Expert Investor or an Institutional 
Investor, DBS Bank Ltd accepts legal responsibility for the contents of the report to such persons only to the extent 
required by law. Singapore recipients should contact DBS Ban k Ltd at 65 -6878-8888 for matters arising from, or in 
connection with the report.

DBS Bank Ltd., 12 Marina Boulevard, Marina Bay Financial Centre Tower 3, Singapore 018982. Tel: 65 -6878-8888. 
Company Registration No. 196800306E.

DBS Bank Ltd., Hong Kong Branch, a company incorporated in Singapore with limited liability. 18th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

DBS Bank (Hong Kong) Limited, a company incorporated in Hong Kong with limited liability.  11th Floor, The Center, 99 
Queen’s Road Central, Central, Hong Kong SAR.

Virtual currencies are highly speculative digital "virtual commodities", and are not currencies. It is not a financial product 
approved by the Taiwan Financial Supervisory Commission, and the safeguards of the existing investor protection regime 
does not apply.  The prices of virtual currencies may fluctuate greatly, and the investment risk is high. Before engaging in 
such transactions, the investor should carefully assess the risks, and seek its own independent advice .

Sources: Data for all charts and tables are from CEIC, Bloomberg and DBS Group Research (forecasts and 
transformations)
