===== Page 1 =====




===== Page 2 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 2 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
Macro news and views

US Japan 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We raised our Dec 2026 headline/core PCE inflation 
forecasts to 3.4%/2.6% yoy (from 3.1%/2.5%) given the 
even higher oil prices we now expect. 
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• Iran war; longer energy supply disruptions that result in 
even higher gasoline prices would likely lead to a larger 
drag on consumer spending. 
• Fed Chair transition; we don’t expect a major reduction in 
the Fed’s balance sheet under Kevin Warsh as Fed Chair. 
• US labor market, which we expect to soften this year due 
to weaker growth, higher energy costs, and modestly 
greater reluctance to hire for jobs that can be done by AI. 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We lowered our 2026 Japan real GDP growth forecast to 
0.3% (from 0.4%) and raised our 2027 core CPI forecast to 
2.3% (from 2.1%) given the higher oil prices we now expect. 
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• Iran war; even with sufficient oil reserves, we think Japan 
faces potentially significant indirect oil supply constraints as 
shortages abroad impact global supply chains. 
• BoJ policy; we continue to expect the next rate hike in July, 
though uncertainty about the timing remains high. 
• Shunto spring wage negotiations show a marginally softer 
base pay rise from 2025, but still high in the mid-3% range.  
• Japanese consumer confidence, which deteriorated sharply. 
US: higher gasoline prices bite consumers  
Effective change in real PCE spending vs. GS baseline in 2026 
Japan: potential oil shortage impacts 
Production cutbacks by risk scenario, % 
under higher gasoline price scenarios by income quintile, %

Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. Source: OECD, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Europe  Emerging Markets (EM) 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We raised our 1Q26 UK GDP growth forecast after better-
than-expected February GDP data, bringing our full-year 
2026 growth forecast to 1.0% (Q4/Q4, vs. 0.6% before).  
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• Iran war; we think the impact of the current energy price 
shock on European manufacturing should be notably 
smaller and less persistent than the 2022/23 energy crisis. 
• ECB policy; we expect the ECB to hike rates in June and 
September but view whether the ECB hikes twice or 
remains on hold this year as a close call. 
• UK employment growth, which remains weak.  
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We raised our 2026/27 China PPI forecasts to 1.2%/0.9% 
(from 1%/0.6%) given the higher oil prices we now expect. 
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on  
• Iran war; we now largely expect lower growth and higher 
inflation across Asia-Pacific from the energy shock, but the 
impact on inflation should be less persistent than in 2022. 
• China growth and activity, which has generally been better 
than expected this year, implying little urgency for large 
near-term policy stimulus and adding conviction to our low 
expectations for stimulus at the April Politburo meeting.    
• Hungary elections; opposition party Tisza’s decisive win in 
the parliamentary elections should strengthen EU-Hungary 
relations and could pave the way for Euro membership. 
Euro area: a less painful energy shock than 2022 
Monthly change in price-related surveys, std. dev. 
Asia-Pacific: energy shock weighs on growth 
Net change in GS 2026 real GDP forecasts, past 60 days, pp

*Normalized for size of the change in equally-weighted avg. of oil and gas prices.  
Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs GIR. Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. 
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
Bottom Second Third Fourth Top Overall
Income quintile
Brent at $100/bbl in 4Q26
Brent at $115/bbl in 4Q26
-10.0-7.5-5.0-2.50.0
Tail risk: Crude oil and LNG supply
from UAE and Saudi Arabia
decreases (oil reserves are depleted
in all countries including Japan)
Risk: Crude oil and LNG supply from
UAE and Saudi Arabia decreases (oil
reserves are depleted in all countries
except Japan)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
EU Comm.
consumer
1y-ahead
expect.
EU Comm.
industry
selling
price
expect.
EU Comm.
retail
selling
price
expect.
EU Comm.
services
selling
price
expect.
Composite
PMI
input
prices
Composite
PMI
output
prices
March 2022* March 2026
-2.0
-1.5
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
South Korea
Mainland China
Japan
Australia
Taiwan
Indonesia
Malaysia
Hong Kong
Vietnam
India
Thailand
Philippines
Singapore
We provide a brief snapshot on the most important economies for the global markets


===== Page 3 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 3 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
After over a decade of rapid growth and relative calm, the 
private credit market has come under pressure as several high-
profile defaults, concerns about potentially inflated valuations, 
and especially substantial exposure to a software industry 
vulnerable to AI disruption have fueled a surge in redemption 
requests (see pg. 16)— drawing some comparisons to the setup 
heading into the Global Financial Crisis (GFC). So, could these 
private credit stresses trigger a systemic crisis? And even if not, 
could they meaningfully impair the outlook for a market that has 
become a key source of financing for companies and an 
increasingly important allocation for investors?  
We ask several long-time industry watchers for their 
perspectives: Howard Marks, Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of 
Oaktree Capital Management, Michael Arougheti, Co-Founder 
and CEO of Ares Management, Bruce Richards, CEO, 
Chairman, and Co-Founder of Marathon Asset Management, 
and Amanda Lynam, GS Chief Credit Strategist.  
Arougheti and Lynam argue that the concerns around private 
credit stresses seem overdone as they are concentrated in non-
traded business development companies (BDCs)—the p rimary 
direct lending investment vehicle for retail investors (see pg. 
8)—which c omprise only a modest portion of the private credit 
market. And they explain that despite the current worries about 
elevated redemption requests, the limited liquidity of non-traded 
BDCs (which Lynam describes as a “feature, not a bug”, 
though Marks finds some retail investors’ apparent 
disappointment in this feature problematic) substantially 
reduces the likelihood of crisis-inducing fire sales.  
This, combined with the lack of leverage in private credit funds, 
well-secured and substantially-protected bank exposure to 
private credit (see pg. 19 for GS Head of the Financials Group 
Richard Ramsden’s deep-dive into the evolving intersection 
between banks and private credit), and GS US Economist 
Manuel Abecasis’ finding that even a sharp rise in private credit 
default rates would only moderately impact the flow of new 
lending to the private sector, all agree: the current private credit 
stresses don’t pose systemic risk, with comparisons between 
these stresses and the lead-up to the GFC unwarranted. 
But even if private credit doesn’t pose meaningful risk to the 
financial system or the economy, will the industry itself still 
experience significant pain? Arougheti and Lynam don’t think 
so. Arougheti sees no indication of a turn in the credit cycle in 
private or bank credit portfolios or credit card charge-off data, 
and doesn’t view last fall’s attention-grabbing defaults as 
particular cause for worry because they were relatively small 
exposures and, importantly, mainly funded by bank-led asset-
based facilities rather than private credit managers.  
Lynam also points out that underlying credit fundamentals 
appear relatively healthy and expects them to remain so as long 
as economic growth holds up, which GS Senior Global Credit 
Strategist Shamshad Ali finds is consistent with the signals 
from the micro signposts he’s watching (namely, what tends to 
happen to loans flagged as “PIK-at-restructuring” and the size 
and profile of loans coming due).  
But even if underlying fundamentals appear healthy today, will 
that remain the case given direct lending’s significant exposure 
to the software industry, which is ripe for AI disruption? 
Arougheti, Lynam, and Marks aren’t particularly concerned, with 
Arougheti explaining that the software loans in private credit 
portfolios are senior secured, high up in the capital structure, 
and extended to large, cash-generative firms, Lynam noting that 
software exposures are not a uniquely private credit problem 
and that managers have long underwritten AI disruption risk into 
their investment criteria, and Marks arguing that even 
significant losses on software loans wouldn’t be “existential” 
for most senior lenders.  
Richards, however, is very worried about software risk. He 
points out that 23% of the private credit market is software 
loans, which he says is an excessive figure by any standard, 
with leverage at the fund level and especially the company level 
further magnifying the risk from this exposure. And he doesn’t 
take comfort from private lenders’ high position in the capital 
structure given that a significant part of the cushion that sits 
below these lenders has already been eaten through. So, he 
expects “incredibly high software sector default rates in 2027, 
2028, and 2029, with peak defaults of 15% and double-digit 
default rates in each of those years” and software loan loss 
rates in the 70-100% range. Lynam, for her part, takes a more 
nuanced view as she thinks software exposure is more likely to 
drive performance dispersion among managers than broad-
based deterioration in the fundamental outlook, and, absent a 
sharp downturn in economic growth—which is not GS 
economists’ base case—doesn’t expect private credit realized 
losses to rise materially above the longer-term average.    
So, the distribution of views on private credit’s near-to-medium 
outlook is wide. But perhaps the bigger question is whether the 
recent developments will dent the longer-term growth outlook 
for private credit, which has become a key financing tool for 
many firms and growing share of investors’ portfolios. Perhaps 
surprisingly, Richards doesn’t think so. While he expects the 
coming software correction to be painful, he expects direct 
lending—the largest segment of private credit (see pg. 9) —to 
emerge from it “bigger and stronger than ever” as the 
correction results in the return of manager discipline.   
Arougheti and Lynam are also relatively optimistic, arguing that 
the current stresses will likely shift market share within private 
credit rather than slow the industry’s overall growth. In 
particular, they expect capital to shift from retail-focused 
strategies to institutional strategies like opportunistic credit, 
which GS US Financials analysts Alexander Blostein and 
Anthony Corbin argue should benefit alternative asset 
managers, though they expect dispersion among them 
depending on their exposure to the wealth channel.  
But Marks is somewhat more cautious, expecting retail 
investors to be more deliberate and circumspect “now that the 
tide may have begun to go out on private asset vehicles sold to 
the public and some of their flaws have been exposed.” That 
said, he also believes that experiencing a full credit cycle may  
ultimately lead to the emergence of a healthier investment 
environment for direct lending and private credit more broadly.        
Allison Nathan, Editor  
Email: allison.nathan@gs.com     
Tel: 212-357-7504   
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC

Cracks in private credit


===== Page 4 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 4
Top of Mind Issue 148
Howard Marks is Co-Founder and Co-Chairman of Oaktree Capital Management. Below, he
argues that while nothing is inherently wrong with direct lending, structural aspects of direct
lending investment vehicles can be problematic for some investors, but don’t pose systemic risk.
The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.

Allison Nathan: You’ve
characterized the rapid expansion
of direct lending as a “gold rush.”
What precipitated that, and is the
rapid growth a cause for concern?
Howard Marks: Direct lending—
private loans made by non-bank
lenders for mid-size private equity
deals—has become an integral aspect
of the private equity business, which runs on using borrowed
money to lever up equity returns on the purchase of
companies. As post-Global Financial Crisis (GFC) regulations

curtailed banks’ ability to lend for levered transactions in an
effort to make banks less risky, private lenders stepped in to fill
the void. And because only a few private lenders existed and
many private equity firms wanted to borrow money, private
lenders were able to demand high interest rates and safety
through strong covenants.
But, as in any gold rush, this success led to a flood of new
entrants. Available capital increased relative to demand for it,

which meant that lenders couldn’t demand as much interest or
safety, so the lender's advantage was somewhat competed
away. But because demand for private equity was growing,
demand for financing from private lenders to lever up
transactions was also increasing, allowing private lenders to
substantially grow their assets under management and
generate sizable fees. So, everyone was motivated to hang up
a shingle as a direct lender. The result was rapid growth in the

direct lending market, which didn't exist in its current form
before 2011 and is approaching $2tn today, with the vast
majority of firms engaged in direct lending today not in
business 20 years ago. And, as in every upsurge in financial
activity that brings heated competition, some participants may
have engaged in risky behavior to get in on the gold rush.
Allison Nathan: Is direct lending inherently problematic?
Howard Marks: There’s nothing inherently wrong with lending

money. But lending can be done well or poorly. Lending
carefully to the right companies at an interest rate that
appropriately compensates for the default risk can be a
profitable and prudent activity. But the opposite is also true. In
1978, I was fortunate to participate in the start of the high yield
(HY) bond market. Prior to 1977, a company rated below
investment grade (IG) could not issue bonds. The innovation of
the time was the concept that a non-IG company should be

able to issue bonds if it offered enough interest to compensate
for the risk of default. Most people considered this imprudent,
calling them “junk” bonds. But, as with early direct lending,
because few investors were eager to lend to these companies,
those that did could demand high interest rates and strong
safety. We have now been in the business of lending money to
non-IG companies for 48 years and have produced good returns
with manageable risk. So, there’s nothing inherently safe or

risky about making a loan, even a non-IG loan.
Allison Nathan: But are there inherent flaws in direct
lending investment vehicles?
Howard Marks: The structure of such vehicles introduces
serious concerns around pricing and liquidity. On pricing, if
investors choose to take their money out of a non-traded
business development company (BDC)—the vehicle for retail
participation in direct lending—they are  paid at the fund’s net
asset value (NAV), which third parties estimate periodically. But

is the NAV accurate? Is it fair? A perception exists that NAVs
for private assets—both equity and credit — may be overvalued,
which would align with most participants’ incentive to show
good performance. But since these loans don’t trade, it’s
difficult to determine their fair price. This is problematic
because if the NAV is too high, investors that leave are paid too
much at the expense of the remaining investors. And if the
NAV is too low, investors that leave are penalized unfairly.

It’s important to recognize that the whole concept of
determining a fair and accurate price is more complicated than
many appreciate. For example, should a loan be valued at its
“fundamental value”—which is hard to estimate—or at the
price an investor could sell it for today, or at the price they
could get a month from now after prospective buyers have had
the opportunity to conduct due diligence, or at the price an
investor would have to pay to buy an equivalent loan? Along the

same lines, should a $1bn loan be valued at the price an
investor could get for the whole $1bn, or for the first $10mn?
Those prices might differ. The point is that an asset does not
“have a price”, which is true even for traded assets; it depends
on market conditions and the size of the trade.
So, valuing assets fairly is a hornet's nest, and especially so for
private assets that have no reference point. Private asset
investors must therefore accept that there is no correct

answer, and no one answer, when it comes to a loan’s fair
value. The only way to avoid the inherent unfairness that the
uncertainty around NAVs introduces would be to pay investors
leaving the fund the proceeds the manager receives when they
sell off the departing investor’s share of the assets. But that’s
not how these vehicles are structured.
Allison Nathan: You also mentioned that liquidity of direct
lending vehicles is a concern. Why?
Howard Marks: To avoid managers having to sell assets at

unrealistically low prices that would be injurious to their
investors and potentially to their business, private credit
vehicles are designed either to prohibit investors from taking
back their capital, as is the case with traded BDCs, or to allow
them to take back only a certain percentage—typically 5% of
NAV— per quarter, as is the case with non-traded BDCs. This
has recently proven problematic because redemption requests
for some non-traded BDC funds have exceeded the 5% cap.

Interview with Howard Marks


===== Page 5 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 5
Top of Mind Issue 148
You can imagine how it feels to invest in something and then
not be able to get your money back. It can be a problem when
a vehicle that invests in private assets promises liquidity.
Allison Nathan: But isn’t the limited liquidity of non-traded
BDCs a feature—not a flaw —given that such liquidity
constraints are embedded in the vehicle’s design?
Howard Marks: It’s absolutely true that investors participating

in a fund that limits redemptions shouldn’t be surprised when
full liquidity isn’t available. But “should” is one of the most
interesting words in the English language. If people shouldn’t
expect liquidity, why are they disappointed when they don't
have it? The answer is either that they weren’t adequately
informed, or they were well informed but didn’t understand or
take cognizance of the terms. The risk of either of these is
highest for retail investors, raising the question of whether

these vehicles are suitable for the retail base. But there’s
nothing inherently wrong with retail investor participation if they
know what they’re buying.
Allison Nathan: A key concern around private lending is the
potential for large redemption requests to force fire sales.
But don’t the liquidity constraints of non-traded BDCs—
well understood or not—prevent that?
Howard Marks: Forced sales are indeed a common cause of
crises; I've been around long enough to see several of them.

But the redemption limits on non-traded BDCs should prevent
such a crash in this market. When people say non-traded BDCs’
liquidity limitations are doing their job, that's what they mean.
But those limitations are still unpleasant for investors.
Allison Nathan: So, you don’t see similarities between
what’s happening in direct lending today and the GFC?
Howard Marks: No, for three reasons. First, the GFC occurred
largely because too much money was invested in highly

levered residential mortgage-backed securities (RMBS) that
were built out of subprime mortgages, which ultimately had no
substance. A great deal of money went into such mortgages
because structuring RMBS produced a lot of fees; thus,
mortgage brokers were paid to make loans, but not necessarily
good loans. Nobody seemed to wonder about the wisdom of
lending money to unsuitable borrowers. Today, no inherent lack
of substance exists in direct loans to creditworthy companies.

Second, another key contributor to the GFC was banks’ high
leverage. Structuring RMBS from subprime mortgages was so
profitable that the institutions making and securitizing the loans
had incentive to keep doing so. But that required somebody to
take the riskiest tranche, which often ended up being the
institution itself. So, highly levered financial institutions—
namely, banks, which were levered up to 32x—held the riskiest
tranches. And a 3% decline in the value of the portfolio at an

institution that is 32x levered could render it insolvent.
Conversely, private credit funds are not highly levered. Some
are unlevered, and some are slightly levered— up to perhaps 2x
at most. So, they don’t face the same type of meltdown risk.
Third, private credit funds aren’t interdependent. The years
leading up to the GFC saw substantial use of derivatives and
hedges contracted in with other institutions—one example is
credit default swaps—that created what we called

“counterparty risk”, setting up for cascading losses if one
institution failed. That type of interconnectedness doesn’t exist
among private credit funds. So, I don’t see the same systemic
exposure here as was the case in the run-up to the GFC.
Allison Nathan: Even if there’s no systemic risk, are
concerns about direct lending’s exposure to software firms
that are vulnerable to AI disruption warranted, especially
since many of these firms were levered up in buyouts?

Howard Marks: It’s cause for concern for the funds that
loaned money for those buyouts. But the downside is probably
manageable in most cases because, if a first-lien loan is made
to a software company, the value of the company must decline
enough to wipe out the equity as well as the junior lenders
before that loan is jeopardized. That type of value destruction is
not impossible, but it shouldn’t be assumed. And even if the
first-lien lender lost half their money in such a case, that

wouldn’t be too bad in a diversified portfolio. If a quarter of the
investments are in software and they all incur such losses, then
the lender would lose half their money in a quarter of their
investments, or 12.5% of the portfolio. And even if they’re
levered 1:1, that would amount to a 25% loss, which still isn’t
existential. There's an old saying that in times of crisis, all
correlations go to one. In other words, everybody panics and
sees all outcomes as equally probable and equally bad. But

losing a quarter of your capital because the software industry
loses most of its value isn’t abysmal. It's just bad for the fund’s
investors. And it doesn't jeopardize the financial system.
Allison Nathan: But what could default rates look like?
Howard Marks: I don't make economic predictions. So, I can't
say how high default rates could climb. And it’s important to
note that in private credit, what constitutes a default—or even
whether lenders will report defaults—is unclear. Lenders have

an incentive to grant the borrower an extension rather than
report a default, and nobody may be enforcing the reporting of
defaults. Particularly for that reason, I wouldn’t put much stock
in estimated default rates.
Allison Nathan: Given everything we’ve discussed, how do
you expect the direct lending market to evolve from here?
Howard Marks: It’s important to first note that the growth of
the private equity industry, which is the main borrower, has

slowed. So, the growth in demand for these loans will also
likely slow. And, as Warren Buffett famously said, it’s only
when the tide goes out that you find out who's been swimming
naked. Now that the tide may have begun to go out on private
asset vehicles sold to the public, and some of their flaws have
been exposed, I would expect retail investors to be a bit more
deliberate and circumspect. In a recent memo, I ended with a
quote from Bob O'Leary, Oaktree’s co-CEO, who says direct

lending will be okay, but it might take a credit cycle to get
there. Only after investors have experienced a full cycle in
which it swings from being too easy to borrow money to being
too hard are they likely to really achieve the understanding of
both the positives and the negatives that enables them to make
better investment decisions the next time around. That’s
ultimately a healthier investment environment, and it may be
what lies ahead for direct lending and private credit more

broadly. But learning that lesson isn’t always pleasant.


===== Page 6 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 6
Top of Mind Issue 148
Michael Arougheti is Co-Founder and CEO of Ares Management. Below, he discusses the
evolution of private credit and his perspective on the recent concerns around it.
The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.
Allison Nathan: First, what is
private credit, and how has it
evolved?
Michael Arougheti: Private credit is

self-originated loans that institutional
money managers make to private
companies, asset owners, and
portfolios of assets and cash flows.
The largest segment of private credit
is direct lending to small- and medium-sized businesses largely
owned by private equity sponsors. It also includes asset-based
credit, real estate and infrastructure lending, opportunistic
credit, and credit secondaries, where investors trade existing
private credit interests. These strategies are generally funded in

the sub-investment grade (IG) market. Over the past decade, IG
private credit has also grown as insurers have merged with
institutional asset managers. So, private credit is a diverse
market spanning many strategies, sectors, and geographies.
While there is a perception that the private credit market
developed largely in response to post-Global Financial Crisis
(GFC) regulation, its origins actually trace back to the 1980s,
when the advent of the high yield (HY) market revealed a whole

swath of sub-IG borrowers whose funding needs banks and
public markets were not meeting. Since then, several structural
and capital innovations have expanded the market, including
the growth of business development companies (BDCs)—
closed-end investment vehicles that lend to small- and mid-
sized private companies—increased insurer participation post
the GFC, and, most recently, the rise of retail investment. So,
private credit has experienced a decades-long evolution.

Allison Nathan: The growth in private credit in recent years
seems to be a source of worry. Should it be?
Michael Arougheti: No. Private markets have grown because
banks and public markets have shrunk, leaving them
increasingly unable to meet firms’ capital needs. The number of
US banks has fallen by roughly half over the last 25 years. The
share of bank balance sheet assets that represent commercial
and industrial (C&I) loans—a proxy for loans made in private

credit portfolios—has also declined from ~ 30% in the 1980s to
<15% today. At the same time, the US has half as many
publicly traded companies today as 25 years ago, with only
~2,100 firms listed on the NYSE and 3,400 on the NASDAQ, a
tiny fraction of the 18 million companies in the US today.
Private credit growth also hasn’t been extraordinary. Private
market AUM has grown at a 13% compound annual growth
rate (CAGR) over the past decade, comparable to private

credit’s 14% CAGR, with private credit growing only slightly
faster than the overall private market over the last three years
as the Silicon Valley Bank (SVB) crisis disrupted private equity
flows and capital shifted toward opportunistic credit. Capital
raised in institutional private credit has also declined for the last
four years. And direct lending dry power remains modest
relative to private equity dry powder, at roughly $300-400bn vs.
over $1tn. More broadly, leveraged credit—non -IG private

credit, bank C&I loans, and HY and leveraged loans— as a share
of US nominal GDP has remained steady at around 23% since
2015. So, private credit growth hasn’t been excessive, and
many parts of the market still don’t have enough capital to
meet demand.
Allison Nathan: Even if the growth doesn’t warrant worry,
aren’t private credit markets taking risks that banks won’t?
Michael Arougheti: No. Private markets are taking credit risks
that banks can’t. It’s underappreciated that banks are 10-15:1

leveraged while private credit funds are only 0-1:1 leveraged.
Leverage amplifies returns but also risks. Banks’ inherent
asset-liability mismatch and regulatory capital frameworks
mean that whole swaths of loans don’t make sense for banks
to extend. Private credit hasn’t created demand for credit that
otherwise didn’t exist. It’s simply an alternate capital provider.
Allison Nathan: That said, are the worries about several
high-profile defaults warranted, or overblown?

Michael Arougheti: They’re overblown. Downturns in credit
cycles are a normal part of the business. But the last two
cycles—which spanned the GFC and the pandemic —were
super cycles dotted with a series of mini cycles around the
2013 Taper Tantrum, 2022 Gilt Crisis, and 2023 SVB collapse.
So, even some long-time investors have never experienced a
credit cycle downturn and so are reacting strongly to defaults
even though fundamentals remain generally solid. Looking at

private and bank credit portfolios and credit card charge-off
data, nothing indicates a turn in the credit cycle. While defaults
will inevitably rise as the cycle matures and some managers
will underperform, that doesn’t mean the entire credit market
will tip over, despite a handful of attention-grabbing defaults
last fall that were relatively small exposures and, notably,
mainly funded by bank-led asset-based facilities.
Allison Nathan: Could the increased use of payment-in-kind

(PIK) features—which allow borrowers to preserve cash by
shifting interest payments to the loan’s principal balance—
be masking deteriorating credit quality?
Michael Arougheti: To answer this, PIK should be thought
about in three baskets. First is “PIK at the outset”, where the
instrument is underwritten with PIK because the lender wants
to earn a higher return and the borrower wants more flexibility
in deploying their cash. That’s a structural choice, not a distress

measure. Second is “good PIK”, where a performing company
wants to divert cash from debt service to growth. This is
attractive to institutional investors because the borrower is
willing to pay the lender more, driven by a belief that the return
from redeploying cash into the business exceeds the cost of
capital. Third is “bad PIK”, where a company can’t service its
debt because operations are deteriorating. Bad PIK is rising,
which warrants watching. But not all PIK is bad PIK.

Allison Nathan: How concerning is private credit exposure
to the software industry amid worries about AI disruption?
Interview with Michael Arougheti


===== Page 7 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 7
Top of Mind Issue 148
Michael Arougheti: Some concern may be warranted, but the
fears around software exposure also seem overdone. Software
names in private credit portfolios are typically the biggest US
private software companies, which are largely institutionally
equity-backed. These loans are senior secured, high up in the
capital structure, and extended to firms with high free cash
flow. For context, at Ares, software is ~9% of our private credit

portfolio. These are large businesses, with average EBITDA of
~$350mn. The average loan-to-value is ~38%, meaning 62% of
the capital structure sits below us, owned by brand-name
private equity sponsors. So, the bulk of the risk is in the private
equity market. These firms are also generally growing at low
double-digit rates. And the loans typically have around 3.5 years
of remaining maturity, which aligns with the timeframe of
expected revenues. These structural mitigants provide

meaningful downside protection. That’s not to say some
software firms won’t be disrupted and losses won’t occur. But
for every firm AI disrupts, another will likely benefit.
Allison Nathan: Fueling these concerns is a perception that
private credit lacks transparency. What’s your response?
Michael Arougheti: The question is, transparency to whom?
Institutional investors in private credit funds have perfect
transparency into what they own and how it’s performing on a

party firms also evaluate and value institutionally-managed
private credit portfolios, and public accounting firms review
that. The banks providing leverage to private credit portfolios
also frequently review the underlying credit exposures. It’s true
that the Fed doesn’t have perfect transparency into private
credit portfolios because they aren’t bank-chartered or highly
leveraged. Even so, the Fed meets with us regularly and sees
our portfolios through the regulation of our bank partners. So, I

struggle with the idea that private credit isn’t transparent.
Allison Nathan: How concerning is the recent surge in
redemption requests, and could they trigger fire sales?
Michael Arougheti: It’s not particularly concerning owing to
the structure of non-traded BDCs, which is where redemption
requests are concentrated. Key aspects of these structures are
often misunderstood. First, so-called “redemption gates” aren’t
actually gates. Before non-traded BDCs existed, investors could

either have daily liquidity in a traded BDC or illiquidity in a 10-12
year private commingled fund. The innovation of non-traded
BDCs was to allow investors to own illiquid assets while
providing a structured path to liquidity of 5% of net asset value
per quarter or 20% per year, with the structure self-amortizing
so investors could be made whole without forced asset
liquidations. The 5%/20% limits weren’t pulled out of thin air
but rather designed to track the weighted average life of the

underlying loan portfolio. So, meeting the contractual 5%/20%
is exactly what these structures were designed to do.
Second, no “asset-liability mismatch” or “run on the bank”
dynamic exists in non-traded BDCs. Unlike a bank with short-
term deposits and long-term assets, these funds align liquidity
with the five-year amortization profile of their loans. They also
typically hold 20-30% of assets in liquid securities like loans,
bonds, or high-grade investments that can be sold to generate

cash, and managers can draw on loan facilities to meet
redemption requests. Those features exist precisely to avoid
having to liquidate private assets below their intrinsic value.
Third, scale matters. The non-traded BDC market is ~$300bn,
representing less than 10% of the nearly $4tn private credit
market. Even if every non-traded BDC met its maximum
redemption limit, that would amount to ~$5bn of loan sales out
of their tradable bucket every quarter, which is small relative to

the ~$85bn of loans that trade quarterly in the syndicated loan
market. More broadly, adequate dry powder exists in the
market to resolve private credit portfolios in an orderly fashion
without any disruption to pricing.
Lastly, the current volatility in non-traded BDCs is a technical,
not fundamental, issue driven by narrative and positioning.
Case in point: our non-traded BDC fund saw no credit
underperformance and zero non-accruals as of 4Q2025, and

over 95% of the investors didn’t request their money back in
the most recent redemption period. That said, some managers
have and may continue selling assets to demonstrate
confidence in their marks to the retail base, which may benefit
their franchise but not necessarily be in stakeholders’ best
interest. So, unwinds could occur. But that would play out over
years and in an orderly fashion.
Allison Nathan: What do you make of comparisons
between private credit worries and the lead-up to the GFC?

Michael Arougheti: The setups differ dramatically. First, while
the Iran conflict has generated significant uncertainty, the US
economy remains relatively strong. Second, credit today is
owned by a much broader swath of investors and with much
less asset-liability mismatch, leading to a significant decline in
volatility in the traded credit markets. If anything, private credit
has become a buffer to market volatility and risk as opposed to
a conduit for them. Third, banks’ exposure to BDCs and private

credit today is ~0.8% compared to their nearly 20% exposure
to subprime mortgages in the lead-up to the GFC. The assets
themselves are also fundamentally less risky. A CLO security
rated single-A or higher—which is where banks typically
invest—has never defaulted. And as r egulators seek more
transparency, they will discover that banks have offloaded risk
and now hold only the safest loans. Lastly, regulators have
much more transparency into the financial system today than in

the lead-up to the GFC, when off-balance sheet structures and
subprime loan portfolios weren’t visible to them.
Allison Nathan: Will recent developments impact the
growth outlook for private credit?
Michael Arougheti: The recent developments will likely shift
market share within private credit rather than slow growth
overall. The current narrative is creating noise, but also
opportunity for those able to cut through that noise. In practice,
that likely means slower growth in non-traded BDCs, with

capital reallocating toward strategies like opportunistic credit,
credit secondaries, and direct lending. Over time, as investors
see how these structures actually performed, capital will likely
flow back. In the meantime, private credit will continue to find
ways to fund the markets’ needs, creating significant
opportunity for managers who are structured the right way.


===== Page 8 =====

hEl  
Goldman Sachs Global 
 Investment  
Research  
 8 
Top of Mind 
 Issue 148

Private credit, explained  
WHAT IS PRIVATE CREDIT?
Private credit refers to debt financing provided by non-bank financial institutions directly to companies. The rise of private credit was largely 
fueled by stricter regulatory frameworks following the Global Financial Crisis, including Dodd-Frank and Basel III, that forced traditional banks to 
tighten lending standards and reduce risk. This created a funding gap that non-bank lenders stepped in to fill. Private credit’s growth was further 
accelerated by a prolonged period of low interest rates, which encouraged both institutional and retail investors to seek thehigher yields and 
illiquidity premiums available through private debt.
Investors in private credit funds include institutional 
investors like pension funds, family offices, 
endowments, insurance companies, as well as retail 
investors (see pg. 9 for a more detailed ownership 
breakdown).
Who are the key 
players in the private 
credit ecosystem?
Borrowers
Borrowers in the private credit space tend to be 
small and mid-sized businesses, although the 
borrower profile has evolved from a niche group of 
small businesses into a broad spectrum of 
corporates and entities. Borrowers can also be the 
portfolio companies of private equity sponsors who 
borrow funds to finance acquisitions or buyouts.
Lenders
The major non-bank lenders in the private credit 
space include alternative asset managers (many 
of which also participate in private equity), 
specialized credit funds, business development 
companies (BDCs)—which are SEC-regulated 
investment vehicles—and occasionally large 
individual investors.
Banks
Banks have increasingly become involved in the private 
credit ecosystem in recent years, largely as indirect 
participants, with banks acting as key capital providers to 
private credit funds. Banks also provide leverage to 
private credit funds through subscription lines and fund 
financing. Some banks have also increasingly taken a 
more proactive role in the market by establishing their 
own internal private credit capabilities.
Investors
What types of private credit strategies exist?
Direct Lending
Direct lending is the most 
common (and ‘traditional’) form 
of private credit. Private lenders 
provide financing directly to 
corporate borrowers. Such loans 
are typically secured and involve 
corporate recourse, offering 
borrowers flexible solutions 
tailored to their specific 
financial needs.
Asset-Based Finance (ABF) 
Asset-based private credit refers to 
a type of private credit in which 
lending is backed by specific 
collateral such as real estate, 
equipment, or financial assets. The 
loan amount depends on the value 
of the pledged assets, which can 
reduce credit risk for lenders. ABF is 
common among businesses with 
strong asset bases but limited cash 
flow or short-term financing needs.
Mezzanine, Second-Lien 
Debt, and Preferred Equity 
These three forms of credit, known 
as junior capital, provide borrowers 
with subordinated debt. These 
instruments are not secured by 
assets and rank below senior loans 
for repayment in the event of a 
default or bankruptcy. Junior capital 
often comes with equity “kickers” 
like warrants. Borrowers use 
mezzanine financing to fund growth 
or acquisitions when senior debt 
alone isn’t sufficient, and investors 
accept higher risk in exchange for 
higher returns.
Distressed and 
Opportunistic Credit
These are investments in companies 
under financial stress or those that 
target market dislocations. 
Distressed debt refers to loans or 
bonds from companies experiencing 
financial difficulties or facing 
bankruptcy. Private credit investors 
in this space seek to profit by 
purchasing the debt at a discount 
and working toward a turnaround or 
restructuring that increases its 
value.
How can investors access private credit?
BDCs are one way investors, particularly retail investors, can access private credit strategies. They are investment vehicles that invest in small and mid-sized 
private businesses. They generate income mainly through interest payments and distribute income to shareholders, typically inthe form of dividends. The 
BDC market is comprised of three main structures that offer a different level of accessibility to investors.
Private BDCs (drawdown funds) are closed-
end investment vehicles where investors 
commit a capital amount upfront but provide 
the cash only when the fund manager calls for 
it to fund specific loans.These funds generate 
returns through income and capital 
appreciation, with profits distributed to 
investors as the fund matures. Capital is 
locked up for the life of the fund, and access is 
restricted to accredited investors and 
institutions. 
1 2 3 4
Publicly traded BDCs trade daily 
on major exchanges and are 
available to any investor with a 
brokerage account. 
Non-traded BDCs (perpetual/evergreen funds) are often sold through 
RIAs/broker-dealers and don’t trade on an exchange. Instead, they 
provide liquidity through periodic share repurchase programs. Most non-
traded BDCs limit total repurchases to 5% of net asset value (NAV) per 
quarter, though the cap is discretionary. If redemption requests exceed 
5%, the fund has the ability torepurchase shares on a pro-rata basis.  
Source: Federal Reserve, Blackstone, Carlyle, KKR, various news sources,  Goldman Sachs GIR.


===== Page 9 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 9 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
The private credit market has grown significantly since 2007 to 
around $3.5tn in assets under management (AUM) today, with 
direct lending accounting for the largest slice of the market   
Global private lending AUM by strategy, $bn

Despite this growth, the private credit market is modest in size 
relative to other North American corporate financing markets... 
Amt outstanding across various N. American lending markets, $tn

Source: PitchBook LCD, Preqin , LSEG Data and Analytics, BDC Collateral,  
Goldman Sachs GIR.

Source: Preqin, Cliffwater, Federal Reserve Board, Haver, Bloomberg, PitchBook 
LCD, Morningstar/LSTA, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
...and the European private credit market is relatively tiny 
Amt outstanding across various Euro area lending markets, €tn

Source: Preqin, ECB, Haver, Bloomberg, PitchBook LCD, Morningstar, GS GIR.

While retail investors are playing a growing role in the private credit 
market, institutional investors continue to dominate... 
Global private credit AUM by investor channel, $bn

Source: PitchBook LCD, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
...with the ownership structure of private credit funds largely 
skewed toward liquidity-agnostic investors 
Investor type for private debt, %

Source: Preqin, Goldman Sachs GIR.

At nearly a quarter of loans, the technology sector accounts for the 
largest part of the US direct lending market 
Industry comp of Cliffwater Direct Lending Index as of YE25, %

Source: Cliffwater, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
Special thanks to GS Credit Research team (Amanda Lynam and Shamshad Ali) and Asset Managers Equity Research team (Alexander Blostein and 
Anthony Corbin) for data. Exhibit 1 originally appeared in Alexander Blostein’s October 19, 2025 Americas Asset Managers note. Exhibits 2-6 
appeared in the Credit team’s April 13, 2026 and July 29, 2025 Private Credit Monitors (see latest Monitor for more details on chart calculations).   
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
3,500
4,000
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Private IG/ABF
Infra Debt
RE Debt
BDCs
Venture Debt
Distressed Debt
Special Situations
Mezzanine
Direct Lending
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
North
American
Private Credit
North
American
Private
Equity
Commercial
& Industrial
(C&I) lending
by US banks
USD High
Yield (HY)
USD
Investment
Grade (IG)
USD
Leveraged
Loans
Private markets Bank lending Syndicated markets
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
European
Private
Credit
European
Private
Equity
Non-financial
corporate
lending by
European
banks
EUR
High
Yield
 (HY)
EUR
Investment
Grade (IG)
EUR
Leveraged
Loans
Private markets Bank lending Syndicated markets
0
500
1,000
1,500
2,000
2,500
3,000
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Institutional Retail Insurance estimate
Private sector 
pension fund, 
19%
Foundation, 
16%
Other, 7%
Public pension 
fund, 11%
Family office, 
13%
Endowment 
plan, 8%
Insurance 
company, 
8%
Bank/investment 
bank, 7%
Asset manager, 6%
Wealth manager, 
5%
Investment company/trust, 2%
0% 5% 10% 15% 20% 25%
Energy
Real Estate
Utilities
Other
Materials
Food, Beverage, Staples
Media & Telecom
Consumer & Retail Discretionary
Financial Services
Business Services
Industrials
Healthcare
Technology
Sizing the private credit market


===== Page 10 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 10
Top of Mind Issue 148
Amanda Lynam is Chief Credit Strategist at Goldman Sachs. Below, she explains the role of
private credit in the financial system and why many concerns about the space are misplaced.
Jenny Grimberg: What role does
private credit play in the financial
system, and how has that evolved?
Amanda Lynam: Private credit is one
of the three core pillars of the
financing continuum alongside the

bank lending and public debt markets.
While the private credit market was
initially reserved for smaller companies
that lacked access to the public debt markets, it has
significantly expanded since the Global Financial Crisis (GFC),
and especially since the pandemic, to include borrowers who
could otherwise access public debt markets or, in many cases,
have already done so and are refinancing their debt into the
private credit market. So, over time, the boundaries between

the three markets have become increasingly fluid.
Jenny Grimberg: So, it’s not the case that companies who
use the private credit market do so simply because they
lack alternatives?
Amanda Lynam: No; that’s a common misperception. Firms
with access to public markets could still opt for private credit
for several reasons. First and foremost is certainty of execution,
especially during periods of market volatility when public
markets may be less accessible. For example, amid recession

fears in 2022-2023, the leveraged loan and high yield (HY) bond
markets weren’t widely available for lower-rated borrowers due
to lower risk appetite and structural constraints. In particular,
the predominant buyers in the leveraged loan market are
Collateralized Loan Obligations (CLOs), rating-sensitive vehicles
that can only hold a small amount of triple-C rated debt, which
restricts their lending to lower-rated firms in times of economic
uncertainty. Private credit doesn’t face such constraints,

making it a more reliable source of capital in choppy markets.
Second is the availability of customized and bespoke financing
solutions. Public markets tend to work best for borrowers that
fit neatly within standardized credit frameworks. For unique
companies— like those in early growth stages, with high
customer concentration risk, or with binary success
outcomes—private credit can offer tailored solutions the public
markets may not be comfortable providing. And third is higher

barriers to entry in the public markets. As companies stay
private for longer, public market deal sizes have become
extraordinarily large. The average deal size in the HY market
today is well above $700mn. This makes public issuance less
practical for firms seeking relatively modest amounts of capital.
Jenny Grimberg: Is private credit riskier than public credit?
Amanda Lynam: Not necessarily. The additional spread that
private market financing commands over public market

financing—known as the illiquidity premium— is often
mischaracterized as purely a reflection of higher risk. In many
instances, it just reflects compensation for the fact that private
credit lenders commit to owning a loan for the entirety of its
life. Borrowers are also paying extra for the customization and
greater certainty of execution that private credit offers. And
while private credit tends to serve smaller or less mature
companies than public debt markets, lenders manage this risk

through thorough due diligence, the use of covenants, and
active oversight, including the ability to renegotiate deal terms
early if a borrower’s financial health deteriorates.
Jenny Grimberg: The current worries about private credit
are focused on non-traded business development
companies (BDCs). What are these structures, and how
important is their role within private credit?
Amanda Lynam: Non-traded, or evergreen, BDCs are vehicles
for retail investors to access private credit strategies. They offer

a faster path to investment with lower minimum denominations
and more simplified tax reporting than institutional private credit
vehicles. Non-traded BDCs represent ~15% of “traditional”
private credit AUM (per PitchBook LCD), which doesn’t include
asset-based finance or investment grade (IG) private credit. So,
despite the significant focus on them, non-traded BDCs
comprise only a small fraction of the private credit universe.
The vast majority of private credit AUM is institutional capital

that is locked up in long-term vehicles with fundamentally
different structures.
Jenny Grimberg: So, are the concerns around the surge in
non-traded BDC redemption requests overdone?
Amanda Lynam: Let me first say that despite the attention-
grabbing headlines about major private credit firms capping
redemptions at 5% of net asset value (NAV) per quarter, these
redemption “gates” aren’t new, even if some investors
seemed previously unaware of them, and are a feature, not a

bug, of these structures. Such features are designed to
safeguard investors’ capital by preventing managers from being
forced to sell assets at depressed prices to meet short-term
liquidity demands. The current stresses in these retail vehicles
don’t exist in the institutional market, because institutional
credit vehicles were never structured to offer redemptions in
the first place. So, concerns about these redemptions, and
potential for spillover to other vehicles, seems misplaced.

Jenny Grimberg: Are recent defaults in the space cause for
concern?
Amanda Lynam: While private credit default rates have risen
somewhat, these statistics can paint a misleading picture of
fundamental health. Some people compare defaults in private
credit to defaults in public credit, but they are not actually
comparable. Maintenance covenants—periodic financial metrics
borrowers must meet—are much more common in private
credit than in the broadly syndicated leveraged loan market.

Because of that, a covenant breach in private credit can be
classified as a covenant default, which counts in the default
statistics. By contrast, roughly 92% of the broadly syndicated
leveraged loan market is “covenant-lite”, meaning the loans
don’t have regular maintenance covenants. Consequently, the
first sign of default is often a distressed exchange or a missed
payment, which can quickly translate into a monetary loss.
Interview with Amanda Lynam


===== Page 11 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 11
Top of Mind Issue 148
For that reason, realized losses are a better gauge of the health
of the market than default rates. As of end-2025—the latest
available data—realized losses in private credit, which we track
through the Cliffwater Direct Lending Index that comprises
over 20k US middle-market loans representing $550bn in AUM,
were around 65bp, below the long-term average of 100bp and
generally in line with the public credit markets. And the yield on

that index is 9.9%, so the income is more than offsetting the
losses. So, underlying market fundamentals appear relatively
healthy, and we expect that to remain the case as long as the
economic backdrop remains resilient.
Jenny Grimberg: Concerns have also grown about the use
of payment-in-kind (PIK), which allows borrowers to defer
cash interest payments, and non-accrual loans, which are
delinquent in payment. What are you actually observing,
and how worrying is it?

Amanda Lynam: PIK is another metric that requires nuance
because not all PIK is created equal. “Good” PIK is PIK
embedded at loan origination, often for high-growth borrowers
seeking to preserve liquidity for investment or acquisitions and
comes with guardrails around duration and magnitude. “Bad”
PIK is PIK introduced after origination when a borrower is
experiencing financial stress. “Bad” PIK modestly rose after
the Fed embarked on its hiking cycle, but not to outsized levels.

And total PIK has remained around 7–8% of BDC total income
over the past several quarters, well below the 2020 peak.
Non-accrual rates have also remained in a tight range over that
period. So, directional indicators of potential credit deterioration
aren’t sending concerning signals right now.
Jenny Grimberg: How concerned should investors really be
about private credit’s software exposure?
Amanda Lynam: It’s something to watch, but software
exposures aren’t uniquely a private credit problem—while

software is the largest sector in private credit, it’s also the
largest in the broadly syndicated leveraged loan market. So, if
AI does disintermediate a significant share of software firms,
both the public and private markets would be impacted. In such
an environment, private credit could actually be well-positioned
to deploy dry power because the public markets would likely be
choppy, and opportunistic credit strategies could see capital
inflows. AI disruption risks have also long been on many private

credit managers’ radars even if the pace of disruption may be
occurring faster than they anticipated. So, their investments
have focused on software firms with moats like proprietary
data or deeply embedded customer relationships. I largely view
the software exposure in both private and liquid markets as a
catalyst for additional dispersion, not widespread market
disruption.
Jenny Grimberg: Given all that, how likely is private credit
to pose a systemic risk?

Amanda Lynam: Very unlikely, in my view. While there is
absolutely potential for performance dispersion and losses at
the manager and fund levels, the tentacles through which
those losses could amplify stress across the broader financial
system seem largely contained. A key feature of private credit
is asset-liability matching. Most capital is locked up, and even in
retail-focused structures, liquidity is limited by design. That
significantly reduces the risk of a “run on the bank.” Leverage

at the fund level is also modest, particularly compared to the
banking system, and the private credit market is small relative
to other parts of the financial ecosystem. In the US, the
Bloomberg USD IG Corporate Bond Index is roughly $8tn in
size while private equity is six times larger than private credit.
More broadly, unlike during the GFC—when hidden correlations
and excessive leverage in structured securities triggered a
domino effect— losses in private credit would largely be borne

by the investors in those funds. While that would undoubtedly
be painful, it wouldn’t be systemic.
It’s also worth mentioning that rather than being a source of
systemic risk, private credit has the potential to help stabilize
markets in times of stress. For example, during the 2023 US
regional banking crisis, private lenders stepped in to fill some of
the financing void when banks and public debt markets stepped
back. As a result, corporate default rates didn’t rise nearly as

much as they otherwise could have during that period.
Jenny Grimberg: But couldn’t the interconnectedness
between private credit firms and banks act as a
transmission channel for systemic shocks?
Amanda Lynam: Loans to non-depository financial institutions
comprise 15% of overall bank lending, much less than other
types of loans, and private credit accounts for only around a
quarter of that, with the loans largely held by large banks with
over $10bn in assets. A recent Federal Reserve report found

that bank loans to private credit vehicles have low loss rates.
So, the interconnectedness isn’t a particular concern.
Jenny Grimberg: Conversely, could upcoming regulatory
changes like Basel III Endgame boost lending capacity in
the banking system and slow the growth of private credit?
Amanda Lynam: A regulatory rollback is unlikely to materially
dampen private credit’s growth given the size of the
addressable market. And for banks with excess capital, it is not

obvious to us that it would be redeployed into middle-market
lending given the many competing uses for capital, including
shareholder returns, M&A, market-making activities, or lending
to private credit firms themselves. So, banks and private credit
firms will likely remain strategic partners, with banks providing
the origination networks and leverage, while private credit firms
serve as the ultimate holders of the loans and associated risk.
Jenny Grimberg: More broadly, will the current stresses in

private credit dent its growth?
Amanda Lynam: Noise will likely persist over the near term,
which may slow growth in some areas of the market,
particularly retail-focused strategies. However, over the longer
term, these challenges will likely prompt private credit to
deploy capital in areas beyond traditional direct lending, such as
opportunistic credit, mezzanine financing, and private asset-
based finance. And the North American private credit market is

far from saturated, especially given the ongoing AI-driven capex
buildout. Private credit also has significant room to capture a
larger share of overall lending in Europe and Asia, where
financing remains relatively bank-dependent. So, while growth
is unlikely to be linear, the scope for private credit to continue
expanding over the longer term remains very much intact.


===== Page 12 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 12 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
Bruce Richards is CEO, Chairman, and Co-Founder of Marathon Asset Management. Below, 
he argues that private credit is meaningfully overexposed to the software sector, which he 
expects will result in significant defaults and losses, though not a systemic crisis. 
The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.
Allison Nathan: Are the concerns 
around software exposure in 
private credit portfolios justified, or 
overblown? 
Bruce Richards: Let's put perspective 
on software exposure within private 
credit by focusing on three key 
numbers: 3, 13, and 23. 3% of the 
high yield bond market is software 
loans versus 13% of the broadly syndicated loan market and a 
whopping 23% of the private credit market. For the top 10 
private lenders, that number climbs to 26%. Given the roughly 
20 investable industry sectors that exist, exposing 26% of a 
portfolio to software is excessive, especially considering that 
software is just a subset of the Technology, Telecom, and 
Media (TMT) sector. So, it’s hard to argue that there isn’t too 
much software risk in direct lending.

Allison Nathan: But concerns about technology 
concentration risk are nothing new and are as much a 
feature of the public equity market as the private market. 
So, why the particular concern here? 
Bruce Richards: Comparing portfolio exposure to market cap 
weight is a mischaracterization of how portfolio managers 
manage risk, whether it be in a bank lending, asset-based or 
direct lending program. The cardinal rules of risk management 
for any lender running a diversified portfolio are to limit the 
maximum amount of exposure to any one company and 
industry. And software companies with anywhere from $10 to 
$100mn of revenues represent only around 1% of all private 
companies in the US. That number is around 7% across the 
public markets, whether in the NASDAQ, S&P 500, or Russell 
2000. So, software exposure is outsized any way you sIice it.  
Allison Nathan: But many of these software companies are 
well-established and profitable. And while agentic AI 
technology may disrupt some of them, it may enhance 
others. Does that give you comfort that some wins will 
offset some losses? 
Bruce Richards: There will be tremendous wins. I'm 
somewhat constructive on software in the public markets 
because public companies have, net of cash, half of one turn of 
leverage or debt to EBITDA of 0.5. Many companies have 
strong margins, solid earnings, and substantial free cash flow, 
which will allow them to make the operating investment 
required to reposition themselves as AI-first software firms. 
But many companies are not in that position, with leverage of 8 
to 10 times debt to EBITDA. Those elevated leverage levels are 
my primary concern because they leave companies with very 
little to no free cash flow after debt service. In fact, many 
companies are actually burning cash on an operating basis after 
debt service. Without adequate free cashflow, these highly 
leveraged software companies will have little ability to make 
the upfront investment necessary to transition into AI-first firms. 
Allison Nathan: Some have argued that private credit 
concerns are overdone because these funds aren’t highly 
leveraged. What is that argument missing? 
Bruce Richards: Let me explain with a simple example. $1bn 
of capital with one turn of leverage on the balance sheet 
amounts to $2bn of assets. $2bn of assets with 26% of the 
portfolio in software means that the software exposure on 
$1bn of investor capital is $520mn—or 5 2% of the capital. So, 
the only one turn of leverage that private credit funds or 
business development companies (BDCs) have still amounts to 
exceptionally high software exposure. At the same time, the 
underlying software firms typically have upwards of 8 to 10 
turns of leverage in the direct lending business and a minimum 
of 4 to 5 turns of leverage in the broadly syndicated loan 
market. So, it’s important to distinguish between the leverage 
of the fund versus the amount of debt on the specific company 
the fund is lending to. Both metrics are important to fully 
understand the risk.

The only one turn of leverage that private 
credit funds or BDCs have still amounts to 
exceptionally high software exposure. At the 
same time, the underlying software firms 
typically have upwards of 8 to 10 turns of 
leverage in the direct lending business.”   
Allison Nathan: Some have also argued that even if 
software companies are disrupted, private lenders’ 
position in the capital structure protects them relatively 
well. What’s your view?   
Bruce Richards: It’s true that private—and public — equity 
investors have more downside exposure. But they also have all 
of the upside exposure. There will be winners and losers, and 
even the best software investors in the private equity space 
will undoubtedly see some zeros in the 2020-2025 investment 
vintages. But they'll also see some companies with higher 
multiples than their original underwriting assumed as AI 
adoption drives valuations higher. So, it’s possible that some 
equity investors will end up doing quite well overall across 
those vintages, even in the event of elevated defaults. 
Conversely, lenders can't afford the zeros because they only 
make par back; they don't have the upside that the private and 
public equity markets do.  
At the same time, a substantial part of the cushion that sits 
below private credit in the capital structure has already been 
eaten through given the collapse in software valuations across 
Interview with Bruce Richards


===== Page 13 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 13 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
public and private markets. Valuations for mid-sized software 
companies are generally down 50% or more from peak levels.  
And when a software company goes bankrupt, even senior 
loans will take a sizable hit. It’s important to understand that 
software bankruptcies look different than bankruptcies in other 
industries because enterprise customers won't tolerate 
uncertainty. A CTO or CIO needs to know that their firm’s 
software is reliable and can’t gamble with operational or 
reputational issues that arise in a bankruptcy process. So, 
keeping a software business intact through a bankruptcy 
process is exceptionally challenging. As a result, while defaults 
in other industries typically result in recovery rates for high yield 
bonds, broadly syndicated loans, and direct lending of 60 to 80 
cents on the dollar, recovery rates will likely prove considerably 
worse in software bankruptcies. Given the collapse in 
valuations, heavy debt loads, and substantial uncertainty about 
which software companies will be successful amid the AI 
transition—a s well as likely limited capital availability until that 
becomes clearer—software default recovery r ates will likely be 
in the 0 to 30 cent on the dollar range for direct lenders. 
Allison Nathan: So, what do you expect for software 
default and loss rates? 
Bruce Richards: I expect incredibly high software sector 
default rates in 2027, 2028, and 2029, with peak defaults of 
15% and double-digit default rates in each of those years given 
the valuation reset this year and likely reluctance of the broadly 
syndicated loan and direct lending markets to extend new 
credit to highly leveraged, below-investment grade software 
companies. Direct lending recovery rates of 0 to 30 cents 
would amount to 70-100% losses on those loans.

I expect incredibly high software sector 
default rates in 2027, 2028, and 2029, with 
peak defaults of 15%... Direct lending 
recovery rates of 0 to 30 cents would amount 
to 70-100% losses on those loans.”

Allison Nathan: Is there a historical analogue for such an 
industry-specific default cycle? 
Bruce Richards: The energy sector’s huge technological 
transformation in 2013-2014 owing to the rise of horizontal 
drilling and hydraulic fracking, which caused a significant shift in 
the price structure for energy, comes to mind. Energy had been 
the number one sector for the high yield bond and broadly 
syndicated loan markets, with capital rushing in. But the 
technological shift led to the collapse of several companies, 
leaving creditors with substantial losses. Debtor-in-possession 
(DIP) financing came in senior to broadly syndicated loans in the 
restructuring process, and default rates for these loans hit 15 to 
20% at their peak and remained at double digits for three 
successive years.  
While Oil & Gas and Software are very different industries, the 
common thread between the two periods is a technological 
transformation driving a change in pricing structure that highly 
leveraged companies are unable to sustain, leading to 
exceptionally high default rates and low recovery rates. Very 
little capital was available in the Oil & Gas sector in the ensuing 
years to refinance debt other than the new capital that came in 
senior to existing debt during the bankruptcy process. I believe 
the software sector will see the same lack of capital in the 
coming years, especially given the elevated leverage levels 
already in the sector today. 
Allison Nathan: Could the losses in the software sector 
that you expect pose systemic risk? 
Bruce Richards: No. During the Global Financial Crisis (GFC), 
banks became ensnared given their exposure to collapsing 
home prices. And consumers were highly exposed both at the 
high end, given that the majority of high-income households’ 
net worth resided in housing, and at the low end, given the loss 
of over 10mn jobs. So, banks failed, businesses were wiped 
out, and consumers were punished. 
Today, banks are stronger than they've ever been. So, there is 
no systemic risk in the financial system. And there is no 
systemic risk stemming from consumers because consumers 
don't pay for software, companies do. Consumer net worth 
today is $180tn— an over-threefold increase from the GFC— and 
consumers are benefitting from near-maximum employment, 
high housing prices, and record-high equity levels and 
valuations. And, while the AI transformation will undoubtedly 
result in software winners and losers, as we discussed, the 
sector represents only around $300bn of capital on a $31tn 
economy. So, I am not at all concerned that the troubles I 
foresee for the software sector will lead to a broader crisis.

Ultimately, while I am very concerned 
about the coming wave of software defaults 
and losses, I am very constructive on direct 
lending.”   
Allison Nathan: Even if you don’t expect a broader crisis, 
could software losses dent private credit’s growth outlook? 
Bruce Richards: No. Direct lending is a critical business for 
capital formation that will emerge from this correction bigger 
and stronger than ever. It’s worth noting that private credit has 
grown 18-fold over 18 years to $1.8tn today and has never 
experienced a correction until now. This reset will result in the 
return of manager discipline with respect to maximum 
exposure levels to any one company or industry, tighter 
documentation, and stricter covenants. So, the next vintage will 
likely be very strong. And European direct lending carries 
materially less of the software exposure I am concerned about 
than its US counterpart, given that software constitutes a far 
larger share of both the US economy and US private equity 
activity than it does in Europe. Ultimately, while I am very 
concerned about the coming wave of software defaults and 
losses, I am very constructive on direct lending, which has 
become an essential financing solution for many companies 
and an integral and invaluable part of our financial system that 
will only continue to grow.


===== Page 14 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 14 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
Shamshad Ali finds that BDC portfolio 
fundamentals and signposts of future 
portfolio health look less concerning than 
public BDC equity prices suggest    
Since the fall of 2025, business development companies 
(BDCs) have become a key barometer of private credit health 
and sentiment as retail participation in middle-market lending 
has grown. Concerns about software exposure in private credit 
funds and a surge in non-traded BDC redemption requests on 
the back of worries about forward returns, underwriting 
standards, and broader secular disruption from AI drove a 
significant selloff in public BDC equities since June 2025. While 
they have bounced off their March lows, public BDCs still trade 
at a nearly 20% discount to their net asset value (NAV), raising 
a key question: is the NAV right, or is the price?        
Current BDC portfolios show some signs of deterioration in 
credit quality at the margin, but little evidence of broad-based 
distress. As such, the fundamentals don’t seem to justify the 
price. But fundamentals are backward-looking. Prices, which 
are forward-looking, may be reflecting signs of trouble ahead 
that aren’t yet baked into portfolio loan values, which tend to 
adjust with a lag going into credit distress. That said, while the 
macro outlook will hold the key to how BDC loans ultimately 
perform, we don’t think the current signposts validate the 
extent of concerns embedded in the price.  
BDCs are trading at a nearly 20% discount to their NAV                                  
BDC share price/NAV per share, ratio

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Loan valuations tend to adjust with a lag going into credit distress 
Cumulative change in loan price going into non-accrual, %

Source: PitchBook LCD, company filings, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Little sign of broad-based stress in portfolio fundamentals... 
BDC portfolio fundamentals generally remained healthy through 
4Q25. The share of first- and second-lien loans trading below 
$80, an important indicator of credit portfolio health as a senior 
secured loan trading below $80 signals credit distress, has 
remained relatively flat over the past few quarters, while other 
common measures of delinquency have moved modestly higher.  
The use of payment-in-kind (PIK), which allows borrowers to 
defer interest payments by adding them onto the loan’s 
principal balance rather than paying them in cash, is one such 
measure. PIK can be baked in at origination (“PIK-at-
origination”), often when lending to growing businesses with 
long ramps to profitability, or structured into an existing loan if a 
borrower has difficulty making interest payments in cash (“PIK-
at-restructuring”). While the latter is more concerning, both 
types of PIK have risen in recent quarters, suggesting 
borrowers are seeking greater flexibility.  
Non-accrual loans— loans where a lender has stopped recording 
interest income as it’s earned because it’s doubtful that the 
interest will be collected— is another such measure. The share 
of such loans has risen to just below 1% of fair value, still 
comfortably below historical averages. Taken together, these 
metrics suggest incremental deterioration in BDC fundamentals, 
not broad-based impairment. 
The share of BDC loans trading <$80 has remained relatively flat                                
Share of BDC loans trading below $80, %

Source: PitchBook LCD, company filings, Goldman Sachs GIR.

While the share of PIK has risen, over half is at origination, and 
non-accruals remain below historical averages                                       
PIK and non-accrual by fair value, %

Source: PitchBook LCD, company filings, Goldman Sachs GIR.

0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
-50
-45
-40
-35
-30
-25
-20
-15
-10
-5
0
-8 -7 -6 -5 -4 -3 -2 -1 0 1 2
Quarters into non-accrual
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
PIK-at-origination (lhs)
PIK-at-restructuring (lhs)
Non-accrual (rhs)
BDCs: NAVs vs. prices


===== Page 15 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 15 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
...and the current signposts aren’t particularly concerning  
But even if fundamentals don’t look concerning today, could 
they in the future? While the macro outlook ultimately remains 
the main driver of loan health, two signposts leave us generally 
constructive.    
Although investors often treat loans that are flagged as PIK-at-
restructuring or non-accrual as reliable markers of future credit 
impairment, in practice the outcomes are more mixed than that 
characterization implies. Looking at over 3,000 loans tagged as 
PIK-at-restructuring, we find that 53% experienced negative 
outcomes, including principal writedowns, lower prices, or 
transition into non-accrual status, four quarters later. But over a 
third improved, either by exiting PIK status or increasing in 
price. So, while less favorable outcomes are more likely, 
negative outcomes aren’t a certainty. 
Loans tagged as PIK-at-restructuring tend to see negative 
outcomes, but not always                                                                              
Outcomes for PIK-at-restructuring one year on*

*“Exit” refers to positions that left the portfolio before the four quarters and prior 
to their maturity month. We use the values prior to exit to categorize these loans. 
“Other” refers to loans which left portfolios immediately after the PIK toggle.  
Source: PitchBook LCD, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Given the prospect of non-performing loans, we also consider 
the size and profile of loans coming due, known as the maturity 
wall. In our view, refinancing risk is relatively benign. Near-term 
maturities are relatively manageable, with loans maturing by 
2027 accounting for only 10% of the total loan balance, and the 
loans coming due generally having higher weighted average 
coupons, which improves refinancing incentives given lower 
prevailing yields—in the absolute or relative to later maturities .  
Another concern is redeployment risk—the risk that managers 
may not be able to reinvest the proceeds from maturing loans 
into new loans with comparable risk-return profiles. However, 
we see no indication that near-term loans are healthier than 
longer-maturity loans when looking at prices or delinquency 
status, with upcoming maturities also fairly well diversified by 
origination vintage.  
So, while a prolonged slowdown in investment activity remains 
a key concern for the viability of BDCs and capital access for 
middle-market companies, the maturity wall does not strike us 
as an immediate source of stress. We also see potential for 
expanded deployment opportunities over the medium- to long-
term, especially outside of traditional direct lending.  
Taken together, we think that NAVs could be optimistic, but not 
overly so. We would continue to flag that dispersion across 
BDCs will likely increase as underwriting remains in focus.  
The maturity wall is not elevated over the near term, and loans 
coming due generally have higher weighted average coupons                                                               
BDC maturity wall, $bn (lhs), % (rhs)*

*Includes first- and second-lien and subordinated loans.  
Source: PitchBook LCD, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Look to credit spreads 
Looking ahead, we view BDC credit spreads as a better 
barometer for NAV risk than BDC equity prices, as equity prices 
will likely continue to reflect an elevated liquidity premium 
following the recent redemption surge and lower future 
dividend prospects for floating rate lending. BDC credit spreads 
appear to have turned a corner. Despite continued headline risk 
and a recent credit rating downgrade, secondary spreads have 
tightened by 60bp from their local wides in March and primary 
market activity has resumed. While we think the fundamentals 
should provide a level of support for senior capital in BDCs, we 
would be cautious of some of the recent exuberance. Since 
mid-March, the most distressed BDCs have seen their credit 
spreads narrow the most, by 93bp vs. only 44bp for the median 
bond spread. As a result, while we see value in BDC spreads at 
current levels, especially for investors comparing spreads to BB 
bonds, we think manager selection will be critical.  
BDC credit spreads have tightened by 60bp since mid-March                  
BDC/index spread ratios, bp (lhs), ratio (rhs)

Source: iBoxx, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Shamshad Ali, Senior Global Credit Strategist     
Email: shamshad.ali@gs.com Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Tel:  212-902-6712 
Non-
accrual
7%
Price decline
18%
Principal 
writedown
14%
Price higher
17%
Leave PIK
9%Exit - non-
accrual
5%
Exit - principal 
writedown
4%
Exit - price 
decline
6%
Exit - price 
higher
6%
Exit - leave PIK
2% Other
12%
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
2026 2027 2028 2029 2030 2031 2032+
Notional (lhs) WAC (rhs)
0.8
1.0
1.2
1.4
1.6
1.8
2.0
2.2
2.4
2.6
120
140
160
180
200
220
240
260
280
300
320
Jan-24 May-24 Sep-24 Jan-25 May-25 Sep-25 Jan-26
BDC bonds (lhs)
BDC/BB (rhs)
BDC/BBB (rhs)


===== Page 16 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 16 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
Recent private credit concerns have prompted a rise in retail 
investor redemption requests…  
Evergreen/non-traded BDC private credit fund redemption 
request rates, %

Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs GIR.

…as well as a sharp reduction in gross flows into retail private 
credit products in recent months 
Semi-liquid private credit monthly gross flows ex. dividend 
reinvestment plans, $bn (lhs), % (rhs)

*Percent of prior NAV, annualized. 
Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
BDCs are trading at a substantial discount to their net asset 
value (NAV)…  
BDC share price/NAV per share, ratio

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.

…and the  share of underperforming private credit loans 
increased slightly in 2H2025 
Share of underperforming private credit loans, %

Source: Company data, LSEG Data & Analytics, BDC Collateral , GS GIR. 
Payment-in-kind (PIK) usage, which can be linked to financial 
stress of a borrower, rose last year but not to outsized levels  
Share of PIK by fair value, %

Note: Includes first- and second-lien loans in BDC portfolios. Captures data 
through December 31, 2025. 
Source: PitchBook LCD, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Non-accrual rates increased only slightly and are not signaling 
broad-based impairment in the BDC complex 
Non-accrual rates by fair value, %

Note: Includes first- and second-lien loans in BDC portfolios. Captures data 
through December 31, 2025. 
Source: PitchBook LCD, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Special thanks to GS Global Credit Strategist Shamshad Ali and US Financials Equity Research Analyst Anthony Corbin for charts.  
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
16%
1Q21
2Q21
3Q21
4Q21
1Q22
2Q22
3Q22
4Q22
1Q23
2Q23
3Q23
4Q23
1Q24
2Q24
3Q24
4Q24
1Q25
2Q25
3Q25
4Q25
1Q26
Weighted average
Simple average
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
Oct-24
Nov-24
Dec-24
Jan-25
Feb-25
Mar-25
Apr-25
May-25
Jun-25
Jul-25
Aug-25
Sep-25
Oct-25
Nov-25
Dec-25
Jan-26
Feb-26
Mar-26
All other Ares Strategic Income Fund
Apollo Debt Solutions Blue Owl Credit Income Corp.
Cliffwater Corp. Lending Fund Blackstone Private Credit Fund
Same store sales (lhs)*
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9
1.0
1.1
1.2
2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4 Q1 Q2 Q3 Q4
2023 2024 2025
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
PIK at origination PIK at restructuring
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
Private credit concerns, in pics


===== Page 17 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 17 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
Manuel Abecasis argues that private credit 
stress will generate limited macro spillovers 
Recent private credit concerns have driven a pickup in retail 
investor redemptions as well as growing worries about broader 
risks to financial stability and the economy given private credit’s 
increased interconnectedness with other financial institutions 
(see pg. 19) as well as its significant software exposure.  
Despite the worries, we think that private credit stress is 
unlikely to generate large macroeconomic spillovers, for a few 
reasons. First, private credit remains a relatively small part of 
the financial system, with direct lending accounting for only 
around 4% of all credit to the private non-financial sector (or 
roughly $1.7tn) compared to the 45% and 30% that residential 
and securitized mortgages comprised in the run-up to the 
Global Financial Crisis (GFC), respectively. While the modest 
size of direct lending doesn’t imply that broader contagion is 
impossible, it raises the bar for private credit stress to become 
macroeconomically significant.  
Second, private credit faces less of a funding mismatch than 
other financial institutions like banks. Third, leverage at private 
credit funds remains modest. And fourth, while banks’ 
exposure to private credit has risen in recent years, it remains 
modest overall, is senior to private credit fund investors’ 
stakes, and the banking system is well-capitalized. As a result, 
we estimate that private credit stress will likely lead to only 
small GDP losses, even in relatively extreme default scenarios. 
Limited economic losses from private credit  
To gauge how higher losses in the private credit sector might 
affect economywide lending, we estimate the economic 
impacts under several potential loss scenarios
1. For each loss 
scenario, we consider three cases: (1) losses are proportional 
across all funds but don’t spill over into banks; (2) losses are 
concentrated in a small number of funds and spill over into the 
banks that lend to them; and (3) these concentrated losses see 
lower recovery rates than even our conservative baseline 
assumption (30% vs. our assumption of 40%), to capture the 
potential risks from lower recoveries on software loans.  
A scenario in which private credit default rates rise from around 
1% in 2025 to 3-4% (the lower end of the range for leveraged 
loans in prior credit cycles) would result in around $45bn in 
additional defaults, which would generate a small drag of 0.2% 
or less on the stock of loans, or roughly 1.5% or less of the 
gross flow of new lending, even after accounting for a pullback 
in lending from other financial institutions. That, in turn, would 
result in a small GDP drag of around 0.1%. 
A more severe scenario in which private credit default rates rise 
to 10% (the top of the historical range for leveraged loans) in a 
concentrated shock would result in around $150bn in additional 
defaults, leading to a 5-6% pullback in the gross flow of new 
lending to the private sector. That would translate to a GDP 
drag of 0.4-0.5%. So, even if defaults rose sharply, the 
macroeconomic impact would be moderate and much smaller 
than the pullback in new lending in both the 1990 and 2008 
recessions (of around 30% and 55%, respectively).

These scenarios focus only on spillovers from stress that is 
specific to the private credit sector. A broader tightening in 
financial conditions or a deterioration in corporate balance 
sheets and the macroeconomic backdrop would pose larger 
risks than those we estimate here. 
Private credit stress will likely lead to only small GDP losses  
Estimated GDP effects of downside stress scenarios for private credit, %

Source: Goldman Sachs GIR.  
A supportive macro backdrop 
While private credit lending will likely tighten in coming months, 
corporate balance sheets are very healthy, bank lending to 
businesses has picked up significantly over the last year, and 
increased AI-related investment demand will likely act as a 
tailwind to credit growth over the next several quarters. Taken 
together, this should further limit the impact of a pullback in 
private credit on the broader economy. 
Corporate balance sheets are healthy…  
Nonfinancial corporate financial balance, % of GDP

… and bank lending has accelerated recently 
Bank commercial and industrial loans, % chg., year ago

Source: Federal Reserve, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
Manuel Abecasis, US Economist 
Email: manuel.abecasis@gs.com  Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Tel:  212-902-8357

1 These estimates leverage our representation of the financial system’s architecture based on Fed data and insights from our equity analysts.  
3.5% default rate 5% default rate 7.5% default rate 10% default rate
(2008 scenario)
-0.7
-0.6
-0.5
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
Diffuse shock (loss flows to equity but not debt holders)
Concentrated shock (loss flows proportionally to all holders)
Concentrated shock, lower recovery rate from software
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
Direct fiscal support from Covid programs
Financial balance
-30
-20
-10
0
10
20
30
40
1990 1995 2000 2005 2010 2015 2020 2025
Private credit: limited macro spillovers


===== Page 18 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 18 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
Alexander Blostein and Anthony Corbin assess 
the implications of private credit concerns for 
Alternative Asset Managers 
Private credit has been a significant driver of management fee 
growth for Alternative Asset Managers, accounting for roughly 
50% of the growth from 2023-2025. Accordingly, mounting 
concerns about private credit have weighed heavily on the 
group, with stocks down over 25% YTD and valuations now 
20% below historical averages at 18x NTM P/E. In particular, 
headlines around redemption requests in retail vehicles have 
sparked worries about the durability of the wealth channel, 
which contributed nearly 30% of the group’s management fee 
growth over 2023-25. While we think concerns about the 
wealth channel are largely overblown, we expect its growth to 
moderate and a widening dispersion across firms based on 
their exposure to the wealth channel. However, beyond wealth, 
private credit opportunities remain compelling, and we expect 
accelerated institutional deployment to support healthy 
management fee growth for the group. 
Headwinds in the evergreen credit channel 
While investors largely expected slower growth from evergreen 
credit funds— also known as non-traded business development 
companies (BDCs)—heading into this year given lower base 
rates/returns, intense media scrutiny has amplified investor 
anxiety and driven a surge in redemption requests from the 
retail investor base. These requests reached 12% in 1Q26 
(~50% annualized), while gross flows into BDCs in March were 
over 50% lower than their 2025 monthly run-rate, resulting in a 
4% (16% annualized) gross inflow rate (compared to ~50% last 
year). In response, most asset managers have capped 
redemptions at 5% of net asset value (NAV) per quarter.  
We expect net outflows in retail credit products in 2026  
Net flows into public alt manager retail credit products, $bn

Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
We expect these dynamics to persist, with outflows from 
evergreen funds likely to continue for some time as the 
industry works through redemption queues. Based on March’s 
gross inflow run-rate and a 20% maximum annual redemption 
rate, we estimate a 4% annualized pace of net outflows, or 
approximately $5bn of outflows across the public alt managers 
in 2026 before flows turn marginally positive in 2027. We 
expect a wide dispersion among managers based on underlying

credit quality and vintage, with weaker-performing or later-
vintage vehicles facing more acute outflow pressure. This will 
likely remain a drag on growth for several firms, but we 
ultimately do not expect retail redemption requests to trigger a 
“run on the bank” dynamic that would lead to fire sales. 
Other compelling private credit growth opportunities  
While retail private credit vehicles face near-term headwinds, 
the institutional channel offers significant growth opportunities. 
Indeed, despite the recent focus on the wealth channel, over 
80% of alts managers’ private credit-related management fees 
are derived from institutional sources compared to the roughly 
7% of fees-related revenues from evergreen credit vehicles 
(though BX, OWL, and HLNE are relatively more skewed 
toward the wealth channel). And though institutional 
fundraising has declined in recent years largely owing to tighter 
credit spreads and faster deployment from non-traded BDCs, 
we expect faster institutional deployment supported by 
significant institutional available capital ($419bn in direct 
lending/opportunistic unlevered available capital) as wealth pulls 
back and spreads widen. Substantial loan maturities through 
2028 should further boost institutional fundraising and 
investment activity, particularly for opportunistic, mezzanine, 
and special situations strategies, which have been relatively 
dormant in recent years. 
We expect Alt managers’ management fees to grow at a healthy 
15% CAGR through 2028 on average  
Historical average management fee growth (organic, ex. catch-up fees, lhs) vs. 
management fee growth estimates (2025-28E CAGR, lhs), %


===== Page 19 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 19 
Top of Mind Issue 148 
Richard Ramsden discusses the evolving 
intersection between banks and private credit  
The rapid expansion of the private credit industry over the past 
two decades has reshaped the lending landscape. The post-
Global Financial Crisis (GFC) regulatory environment made it 
increasingly difficult for banks to compete in certain lending 
categories, and regulatory constraints around lending to 
corporates above specified leverage thresholds have pushed 
some borrowers toward non-bank financing providers that can 
offer greater flexibility on structure and terms, including 
covenant-lite and payment-in-kind (PIK) features (see pgs. 10-
11).  
But while banks have ceded share to the private credit industry, 
particularly in commercial lending, they have also benefitted 
from the industry’s growth and have become increasingly 
interconnected with it, providing direct financing opportunities 
to private credit funds and partnering with private credit firms 
to serve customers whose financing needs are beyond banks’ 
risk or balance sheet constraints. Amid the current stresses in 
private credit, this interconnectedness has raised concerns 
about systemic risk, which we view as overdone.    
Meaningful linkages…  
Currently, banks provide financing to private credit managers in 
the form of working capital facilities and fund-level leverage. 
These facilities are typically secured by diversified loan 
portfolios, which generally have relatively conservative advance 
rates or loan-to-value ratios (LTVs). Based on disclosures from 
large banks, advance rates are generally in the 60-70% range, 
suggesting that defaults would need to rise materially before 
banks would incur losses. Banks are typically insulated from 
first-loss risk within their private credit exposure through both 
underlying operating company equity and a meaningful layer of 
fund investor capital. Banks also actively monitor collateral 
values and, in some cases, have reduced the leverage they 
provide private credit funds over the last six months. As a 
result, loss rates on banks’ private credit portfolios haven’t 
materially risen, and we expect risk-adjusted returns to remain 
healthy in the near term.  
Lending to private credit firms has also become an important 
source of lending growth for the banking industry, though it 
remains a relatively small portion of bank balance sheets. Loans 
to private credit currently account for 3% of bank loan 
portfolios, having grown at double-digit compound annual 
growth rates (CAGRs) over the last five years. This exposure 
sits within the broader non-depository financial institution 
(NDFI) lending category that represents around 15% of total 
bank lending. However, as private credit firms experience net 
outflows, the demand for these working capital loans will likely 
decline, leading to slower growth—or even some contraction—
in bank lending to private credit.

Loans to private credit account for 3% of total bank loans…                                   
Bank private credit exposure ($bn, rhs) and as share of loans (%, lhs)

...with broader NDFI lending accounting for 15%                              
Bank NDFI exposure ($bn, rhs) and as share of loans (%, lhs)

Note: WFC, USB, and PNC as of 1Q26, others as of 4Q25; chart excludes MS.  
Source: Company data, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
Banks have also increasingly partnered with private credit firms 
to serve customers whose financing needs may fall outside a 
bank's risk appetite or balance sheet constraints. These 
partnerships enable banks to distribute risk, helping diversify 
portfolio exposure while allowing banks to offer clients a 
broader range of lending options than they could provide on a 
standalone basis, as they can now sell and offload loans that do 
not fit their underwriting criteria. So, while a pullback in private 
credit may allow banks to regain some share in loan origination, 
it could also reduce the range of lending options banks can 
offer clients, particularly in situations where banks are unwilling 
to hold the loans on their own balance sheet. 
…but limited systemic risk  
Taken together, banks’ exposure to private credit is real but 
structurally buffered, with direct exposures generally secured, 
conservatively leveraged, and protected by substantial first-loss 
capital. As a result, while ongoing monitoring is warranted, 
particularly if private credit stresses continue, private credit 
seems unlikely to pose a risk to the traditional financial system.     
Richard Ramsden, Head of the Financials Group     
Email: richard.ramsden@gs.com Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Tel:  212-357-9981 
1.7%
1.9%
2.8%
2.9% 3.0%
3.3%
3.7%
20
7
25
22
12
50
36
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
0.0%
0.5%
1.0%
1.5%
2.0%
2.5%
3.0%
3.5%
4.0%
BAC PNC Avg. C USB JPM WFC
% of loans (lhs)
Amount of exposure (rhs)
10.7%
12.5%
15.2% 15.6% 15.7%
19.6% 20.2%
160
50
180
129
118
193
73
0
50
100
150
200
250
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
JPM USB BAC Avg. C WFC PNC
% of loans (lhs)
Amount of exposure (rhs)
Banks and private credit: the intersection


===== Page 20 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 20 
Top of Mind Issue 148

Summary of our key forecasts


===== Page 21 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 21
Top of Mind Issue 148
Current Activity Indicator (CAI)
GS CAIs measure the growth signal in a broad range of weekly and monthly indicators, offering an alternative to Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). GDP is an imperfect guide to current activity: In most countries, it is only available quarterly and is
released with a substantial delay, and its initial estimates are often heavily revised. GDP also ignores important measures of real

activity, such as employment and the purchasing managers’ indexes (PMIs). All of these problems reduce the effectiveness of
GDP for investment and policy decisions. Our CAIs aim to address GDP’s shortcomings and provide a timelier read on the pace
of growth.
For more, see our CAI page and Global Economics Comment: Technical Updates to Our Global CAIs.
Dynamic Equilibrium Exchange Rates (DEER)
The GSDEER framework establishes an equilibrium (or “fair”) value of the real exchange rate based on relative productivity and

terms-of-trade differentials.
For more, see our GSDEER page, Global Economics Paper No. 227: Finding Fair Value in EM FX, 26 January 2016, and Global
Markets Analyst: A Look at Valuation Across G10 FX, 29 June 2017.
Financial Conditions Index (FCI)
GS FCIs gauge the “looseness” or “tightness” of financial conditions across the world’s major economies, incorporating
variables that directly affect spending on domestically produced goods and services. FCIs can provide valuable information

about the economic growth outlook and the direct and indirect effects of monetary policy on real economic activity.
FCIs for the G10 economies are calculated as a weighted average of a policy rate, a long-term risk-free bond yield, a corporate
credit spread, an equity price variable, and a trade-weighted exchange rate; the Euro area FCI also includes a sovereign credit
spread. The weights mirror the effects of the financial variables on real GDP growth in our models over a one-year horizon. FCIs

for emerging markets are calculated as a weighted average of a short-term interest rate, a long-term swap rate, a CDS spread,
an equity price variable, a trade-weighted exchange rate, and—in economies with large foreign- currency-denominated debt
stocks— a debt-weighted exchange rate index.
For more, see our FCI page, Global Economics Analyst: Our New G10 Financial Conditions Indices, 20 April 2017, and Global
Economics Analyst: Tracking EM Financial Conditions – Our New FCIs, 6 October 2017.

Goldman Sachs Analyst Index (GSAI)
The US GSAI is based on a monthly survey of GS equity analysts to obtain their assessments of business conditions in the
industries they follow. The results provide timely “bottom-up” information about US economic activity to supplement and cross-
check our analysis of “top-down” data. Based on analysts’ responses, we create a diffusion index for economic activity
comparable to the ISM’s indexes for activity in the manufacturing and nonmanufacturing sectors.

Macro-Data Assessment Platform (MAP)
GS MAP scores facilitate rapid interpretation of new data releases for economic indicators worldwide. MAP summarizes the
importance of a specific data release (i.e., its historical correlation with GDP) and the degree of surprise relative to the
consensus forecast. The sign on the degree of surprise characterizes underperformance with a negative number and
outperformance with a positive number. Each of these two components is ranked on a scale from 0 to 5, with the MAP score

being the product of the two, i.e., from -25 to +25. For example, a MAP score of +20 (5;+4) would indicate that the data has a
very high correlation to GDP (5) and that it came out well above consensus expectations (+4), for a total MAP value of +20.
Glossary of GS proprietary indices


===== Page 22 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 22 
Top of Mind Issue 148

Issue 147 
Iran conflict: how long, and how bad? 
March 20, 2026  
Issue 132 
Post-election economic policies 
October 21, 2024

Issue 146 
Will AI eat software? 
March 12, 2026  
Issue 131 
Is the Fed behind the curve? 
September 3, 2024

Issue 145 
Americas First 
January 26, 2026  
Issue 130 
How investable is Europe? 
August 1, 2024

Special Issue 
2025: 4 themes in charts 
December 15, 2025  
Issue 129 
Gen AI: too much spend, too little benefit? 
June 25, 2024

Issue 144 
The US-China tech race 
December 4, 2025  
Issue 128 
Central bank divergence room to run? 
May 21, 2024

Issue 143 
AI: in a bubble? 
October 22, 2025  
Issue 127 
Weighing the GLP-1 market 
April 12, 2024

Issue 142 
Data (un)reliability 
September 11, 2025  
Issue 126 
Global transit & trade: in rough waters 
March 12, 2024

Issue 141 
Stablecoin summer 
August 19, 2025  
Issue 125 
2024: The year of elections 
February 1, 2024

Issue 140 
US fiscal worries: Is this time different? 
June 12, 2025  
Issue 124 
Middle East risks 
December 5, 2023

Issue 139 
Fed independence: how concerning? 
May 15, 2025  
Issue 123 
US outperformance: at a turning point? 
October 30, 2023

Issue 138 
Tariff-induced recession risk 
April 17, 2025  
Issue 122 
Commercial real estate risks 
October 9, 2023

Issue 137 
Europe’s shifting security landscape 
March 13, 2025  
Issue 121 
Corporate credit concerns 
August 10, 2023

Issue 136 
Trump tariffs: mostly talk, or big action? 
February 26, 2025  
Issue 120 
Generative AI: hype, or truly transformative? 
July 5, 2023

Issue 135 
High bond yields: here to stay? 
February 5, 2025  
Issue 119 
Daunting debt limit dynamics 
May 22, 2023

Special Issue 
2024: 4 themes in charts 
December 18, 2024  
Issue 118 
US-China: more decoupling ahead?  
May 1, 2023

Issue 134 
Will China's policy stimulus be enough? 
December 11, 2024  
Issue 117 
All about bank(panic)s  
April 3, 2023

Issue 133 
Market concentration: how big a worry? 
November 25, 2024  
Issue 116 
(Japanese) Bonds, Bonds, Bonds 
February 23, 2023 
Source of photos: www.gettyimages.com.
Top of Mind archive


===== Page 23 =====

Reg AC
We, Allison Nathan, Jenny Grimberg, Ashley Rhodes, Amanda Lynam, CPA, Shamshad Ali and Manuel Abecasis, hereby certify
that all of the views expressed in this report accurately reflect our personal views, which have not been influenced by
considerations of the firm's business or client relationships.
We, Richard Ramsden, Alexander Blostein, CFA and Anthony Corbin, hereby certify that all of the views expressed in this report
accurately reflect our personal views about the subject company or companies and its or their securities. We also certify that no

part of our compensation was, is or will be, directly or indirectly, related to the specific recommendations or views expressed in
this report.
Unless otherwise stated, the individuals listed on the cover page of this report are analysts in Goldman Sachs' Global Investment
Research division.
Rating and pricing information
Ares Management Corp. (Buy, $115.23) and StepStone Group (Buy, $51.82).
GS Factor Profile
The Goldman Sachs Factor Profile provides investment context for a stock by comparing key attributes to the market (i.e. our

universe of rated stocks) and its sector peers. The four key attributes depicted are: Growth, Financial Returns, Multiple (e.g.
valuation) and Integrated (a composite of Growth, Financial Returns and Multiple). Growth, Financial Returns and Multiple are
calculated by using normalized ranks for specific metrics for each stock. The normalized ranks for the metrics are then averaged
and converted into percentiles for the relevant attribute. The precise calculation of each metric may vary depending on the fiscal

year, industry and region, but the standard approach is as follows:
Growth is based on a stock's forward-looking sales growth, EBITDA growth and EPS growth (for financial stocks, only EPS and
sales growth), with a higher percentile indicating a higher growth company. Financial Returns is based on a stock's forward-
looking ROE, ROCE and CROCI (for financial stocks, only ROE), with a higher percentile indicating a company with higher financial
returns. Multiple is based on a stock's forward-looking P/E, P/B, price/dividend (P/D), EV/EBITDA, EV/FCF and EV/Debt Adjusted

Cash Flow (DACF) (for financial stocks, only P/E, P/B and P/D), with a higher percentile indicating a stock trading at a higher
multiple. The Integrated percentile is calculated as the average of the Growth percentile, Financial Returns percentile and (100% -
Multiple percentile).
Financial Returns and Multiple use the Goldman Sachs analyst forecasts at the fiscal year-end at least three quarters in the future.
Growth uses inputs for the fiscal year at least seven quarters in the future compared with the year at least three quarters in the

future (on a per-share basis for all metrics).
For a more detailed description of how we calculate the GS Factor Profile, please contact your GS representative.
M&A Rank
Across our global coverage, we examine stocks using an M&A framework, considering both qualitative factors and quantitative
factors (which may vary across sectors and regions) to incorporate the potential that certain companies could be acquired. We then
assign a M&A rank as a means of scoring companies under our rated coverage from 1 to 3, with 1 representing high (30%-50%)

probability of the company becoming an acquisition target, 2 representing medium (15%-30%) probability and 3 representing low
(0%-15%) probability. For companies ranked 1 or 2, in line with our standard departmental guidelines we incorporate an M&A
component into our target price. M&A rank of 3 is considered immaterial and therefore does not factor into our price target, and
may or may not be discussed in research.
Quantum
Quantum is Goldman Sachs' proprietary database providing access to detailed financial statement histories, forecasts and ratios. It

Distribution of ratings/investment banking relationships
Goldman Sachs Investment Research global Equity coverage universe


===== Page 24 =====

its analysts, professionals reporting to analysts and members of their households from owning securities of any company in the
analyst's area of coverage.  Analyst compensation:  Analysts are paid in part based on the profitability of Goldman Sachs, which
includes investment banking revenues.  Analyst as officer or director: Goldman Sachs policy generally prohibits its analysts,
persons reporting to analysts or members of their households from serving as an officer, director or advisor of any company in the

United States laws and regulations. Australia: Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd and its affiliates are not authorised deposit-taking
institutions (as that term is defined in the Banking Act 1959 (Cth)) in Australia and do not provide banking services, nor carry on a
banking business, in Australia. This research, and any access to it, is intended only for "wholesale clients" within the meaning of the
Australian Corporations Act, unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. In producing research reports, members of Global

Investment Research of Goldman Sachs Australia may attend site visits and other meetings hosted by the companies and other
entities which are the subject of its research reports. In some instances the costs of such site visits or meetings may be met in
part or in whole by the issuers concerned if Goldman Sachs Australia considers it is appropriate and reasonable in the specific
circumstances relating to the site visit or meeting. To the extent that the contents of this document contains any financial product

advice, it is general advice only and has been prepared by Goldman Sachs without taking into account a client's objectives, financial
situation or needs. A client should, before acting on any such advice, consider the appropriateness of the advice having regard to
the client's own objectives, financial situation and needs. A copy of certain Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand disclosure
of interests and a copy of Goldman Sachs’ Australian Sell-Side Research Independence Policy Statement are available

offering or solicitation by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC for purchasers of securities in Canada to trade in any Canadian security.
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC is not registered as a dealer in any jurisdiction in Canada under applicable Canadian securities laws and
generally is not permitted to trade in Canadian securities and may be prohibited from selling certain securities and products in
certain jurisdictions in Canada. If you wish to trade in any Canadian securities or other products in Canada please contact Goldman

Sachs Canada Inc., an affiliate of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., or another registered Canadian dealer.  Hong Kong: Further
information on the securities of covered companies referred to in this research may be obtained on request from Goldman Sachs
(Asia) L.L.C.  India: Further information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research may be obtained from
Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited, Research Analyst - SEBI Registration Number INH000001493, 10th Floor, Ascent-

Worli, Sudam Kalu Ahire Marg, Worli, Mumbai-400 025, India, Corporate Identity Number U74140MH2006FTC160634, Phone +91
22 6616 9000, Fax +91 22 6616 9001. Goldman Sachs may beneficially own 1% or more of the securities (as such term is defined
in clause 2 (h) the Indian Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956) of the subject company or companies referred to in this
research report. Investment in securities market are subject to market risks. Read all the related documents carefully before

investing. Registration granted by SEBI and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or
provide any assurance of returns to investors. Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited compliance officer and investor


===== Page 25 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 25
Top of Mind Issue 148
grievance contact details can be found at: https://www.goldmansachs.com/worldwide/india/documents/Grievance-Redressal-and-
Escalation-Matrix.pdf, and a copy of the annual audit compliance report can be found at this
link: https://publishing.gs.com/content/site/india-annual-compliance-report.html.  Japan: See below.  Korea: This research, and any
access to it, is intended only for "professional investors" within the meaning of the Financial Services and Capital Markets Act,

unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. Further information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research
may be obtained from Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch.  New Zealand: Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited and its
affiliates are neither "registered banks" nor "deposit takers" (as defined in the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Act 1989) in New
Zealand. This research, and any access to it, is intended for "wholesale clients" (as defined in the Financial Advisers Act 2008)

the Russian Federation are not advertising as defined in the Russian legislation, but are information and analysis not having product
promotion as their main purpose and do not provide appraisal within the meaning of the Russian legislation on appraisal activity.
Research reports do not constitute a personalized investment recommendation as defined in Russian laws and regulations, are not
addressed to a specific client, and are prepared without analyzing the financial circumstances, investment profiles or risk profiles of

clients. Goldman Sachs assumes no responsibility for any investment decisions that may be taken by a client or any other person
based on this research report.  Singapore: Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W), which is regulated
by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, accepts legal responsibility for this research, and should be contacted with respect to any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this research.  Taiwan: This material is for reference only and must not be reprinted

without permission. Investors should carefully consider their own investment risk. Investment results are the responsibility of the
individual investor.  United Kingdom: Persons who would be categorized as retail clients in the United Kingdom, as such term is
defined in the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, should read this research in conjunction with prior Goldman Sachs research
on the covered companies referred to herein and should refer to the risk warnings that have been sent to them by Goldman Sachs

International. A copy of these risks warnings, and a glossary of certain financial terms used in this report, are available from
Goldman Sachs International on request.
European Union and United Kingdom: Disclosure information in relation to Article 6 (2) of the European Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) (2016/958) supplementing Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (including
as that Delegated Regulation is implemented into United Kingdom domestic law and regulation following the United Kingdom’s

Finance Company.
Ratings, coverage universe and related definitions
Buy (B), Neutral (N), Sell (S) Analysts recommend stocks as Buys or Sells for inclusion on various regional Investment Lists.
Being assigned a Buy or Sell on an Investment List is determined by a stock's total return potential relative to its coverage
universe. Any stock not assigned as a Buy or a Sell on an Investment List with an active rating (i.e., a stock that is not Rating
Suspended, Not Rated, Early-Stage Biotech, Coverage Suspended or Not Covered), is deemed Neutral. Each region manages

Regional Conviction Lists, which are selected from Buy rated stocks on the respective region's Investment Lists and represent
investment recommendations focused on the size of the total return potential and/or the likelihood of the realization of the return
across their respective areas of coverage. The addition or removal of stocks from such Conviction Lists are managed by the
Investment Review Committee or other designated committee in each respective region and do not represent a change in the

analysts' investment rating for such stocks.
Total return potential represents the upside or downside differential between the current share price and the price target,
including all paid or anticipated dividends, expected during the time horizon associated with the price target. Price targets are
required for all covered stocks. The total return potential, price target and associated time horizon are stated in each report adding
or reiterating an Investment List membership.

Coverage Universe: A list of all stocks in each coverage universe is available by primary analyst, stock and coverage universe
at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html.
Not Rated (NR). The investment rating, target price and earnings estimates (where relevant) are removed pursuant to Goldman
Sachs policy when Goldman Sachs is acting in an advisory capacity in a merger or in a strategic transaction involving this company,
when there are legal, regulatory or policy constraints due to Goldman Sachs’ involvement in a transaction, and in certain other


===== Page 26 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 26
Top of Mind Issue 148
circumstances. Early-Stage Biotech (ES). An investment rating and a target price are not assigned pursuant to Goldman Sachs
policy when this company has neither a drug, treatment or medical device that has passed a Phase II clinical trial nor a license to
distribute a post-Phase II drug, treatment or medical device.  Rating Suspended (RS). Goldman Sachs Research has suspended
the investment rating and price target for this stock, because there is not a sufficient fundamental basis for determining an

investment rating or target price. The previous investment rating and target price, if any, are no longer in effect for this stock and
should not be relied upon.  Coverage Suspended (CS). Goldman Sachs has suspended coverage of this company.  Not
Covered (NC). Goldman Sachs does not cover this company.
Global product; distributing entities
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research produces and distributes research products for clients of Goldman Sachs on a global

basis. Analysts based in Goldman Sachs offices around the world produce research on industries and companies, and research on
macroeconomics, currencies, commodities and portfolio strategy. This research is disseminated in Australia by Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty Ltd (ABN 21 006 797 897); in Brazil by Goldman Sachs do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A.; Public
Communication Channel Goldman Sachs Brazil: 0800 727 5764 and / or contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Available Weekdays

(except holidays), from 9am to 6pm. Canal de Comunicação com o Público Goldman Sachs Brasil: 0800 727 5764 e/ou
contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Horário de funcionamento: segunda-feira à sexta-feira (exceto feriados), das 9h às 18h; in Canada
by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC; in Hong Kong by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.; in India by Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private
Ltd.; in Japan by Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.; in the Republic of Korea by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch; in New

Zealand by Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited; in Russia by OOO Goldman Sachs; in Singapore by Goldman Sachs (Singapore)
Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W); and in the United States of America by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. Goldman Sachs
International has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.
Goldman Sachs International (“GSI”), authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority (“PRA”) and regulated by the Financial

Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and the PRA, has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.
European Economic Area: Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) is a credit institution incorporated in Germany and, within
the Single Supervisory Mechanism, subject to direct prudential supervision by the European Central Bank and in other respects
supervised by German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin) and

information that we consider reliable, but we do not represent it is accurate or complete, and it should not be relied on as such.
The information, opinions, estimates and forecasts contained herein are as of the date hereof and are subject to change without
prior notification. We seek to update our research as appropriate, but various regulations may prevent us from doing so. Other than
certain industry reports published on a periodic basis, the large majority of reports are published at irregular intervals as appropriate

Our salespeople, traders, and other professionals may provide oral or written market commentary or trading strategies to our
clients and principal trading desks that reflect opinions that are contrary to the opinions expressed in this research. Our asset
management area, principal trading desks and investing businesses may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the
recommendations or views expressed in this research.
The analysts named in this report may have from time to time discussed with our clients, including Goldman Sachs salespersons

and traders, or may discuss in this report, trading strategies that reference catalysts or events that may have a near-term impact on
the market price of the equity securities discussed in this report, which impact may be directionally counter to the analyst's
published price target expectations for such stocks. Any such trading strategies are distinct from and do not affect the analyst's
fundamental equity rating for such stocks, which rating reflects a stock's return potential relative to its coverage universe as

described herein.
We and our affiliates, officers, directors, and employees will from time to time have long or short positions in, act as principal in,
and buy or sell, the securities or derivatives, if any, referred to in this research, unless otherwise prohibited by regulation or
Goldman Sachs policy.
The views attributed to third party presenters at Goldman Sachs arranged conferences, including individuals from other parts of
Goldman Sachs, do not necessarily reflect those of Global Investment Research and are not an official view of Goldman Sachs.

Any third party referenced herein, including any salespeople, traders and other professionals or members of their household, may
have positions in the products mentioned that are inconsistent with the views expressed by analysts named in this report.


===== Page 27 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 27
Top of Mind Issue 148
This research is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction where such an offer or
solicitation would be illegal. It does not constitute a personal recommendation or take into account the particular investment
objectives, financial situations, or needs of individual clients. Clients should consider whether any advice or recommendation in this

future performance, future returns are not guaranteed, and a loss of original capital may occur. Fluctuations in exchange rates could
have adverse effects on the value or price of, or income derived from, certain investments.
Certain transactions, including those involving futures, options, and other derivatives, give rise to substantial risk and are not
suitable for all investors. Investors should review current options and futures disclosure documents which are available from

strategies calling for multiple purchase and sales of options such as spreads. Supporting documentation will be supplied upon
request.
Differing Levels of Service provided by Global Investment Research: The level and types of services provided to you by
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research may vary as compared to that provided to internal and other external clients of GS,
depending on various factors including your individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communication,

your risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g., marketwide, sector specific, long term, short term), the size and scope
of your overall client relationship with GS, and legal and regulatory constraints. As an example, certain clients may request to
receive notifications when research on specific securities is published, and certain clients may request that specific data underlying
analysts’ fundamental analysis available on our internal client websites be delivered to them electronically through data feeds or

otherwise. No change to an analyst’s fundamental research views (e.g., ratings, price targets, or material changes to earnings
estimates for equity securities), will be communicated to any client prior to inclusion of such information in a research report
broadly disseminated through electronic publication to our internal client websites or through other means, as necessary, to all
clients who are entitled to receive such reports.
All research reports are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client

websites. Not all research content is redistributed to our clients or available to third-party aggregators, nor is Goldman Sachs
responsible for the redistribution of our research by third party aggregators. For research, models or other data related to one or
more securities, markets or asset classes (including related services) that may be available to you, please contact your GS
representative or go to https://research.gs.com.
Disclosure information is also available at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html or from Research Compliance, 200 West

Street, New York, NY 10282.
© 2026 Goldman Sachs.
You are permitted to store, display, analyze, modify, reformat, and print the information made available to you via this service only
for your own use. You may not resell or reverse engineer this information to calculate or develop any index for disclosure and/or
marketing or create any other derivative works or commercial product(s), data or offering(s) without the express written consent of
Goldman Sachs. You are not permitted to publish, transmit, or otherwise reproduce this information, in whole or in part, in any

format to any third party without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs. This foregoing restriction includes, without
limitation, using, extracting, downloading or retrieving this information, in whole or in part, to train or finetune a machine learning or
artificial intelligence system, or to provide or reproduce this information, in whole or in part, as a prompt or input to any such
system.


===== Page 28 =====




===== Page 29 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 2 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Macro news and views

US Japan 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We lowered our 2026 US growth forecast and raised our
2026 US inflation forecast to reflect higher oil prices amid
the Iran war, with growth risks skewed further to the
downside and inflation risks to the upside.
• We pushed back our forecast for the next Fed cut from Jun
to Sep, with a second cut in Dec to the same terminal rate
of 3-3.25% given the higher inflation path we now expect.
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• Labor market, which we expect to soften further.
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We lowered our CY26/27 real GDP growth forecasts and
raised our 2026 core CPI inflation forecast to reflect higher
energy prices, though the sensitivity of growth to rising oil
prices is smaller than in the past.
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• BoJ policy; we continue to expect the next hike in July, but
the uncertainty around timing remains high as inflationary
pressures from higher energy prices could prompt an earlier
hike while rising growth concerns could delay further hikes.
• 2026 shunto negotiations; the first round of collected data
will likely confirm high wage hike momentum this year.
Labor market softening concerns: alive and well 
Underlying trend job growth, GS estimate, thousands per month 
Higher oil prices: less shocking than in the past 
Impact of a 1% deterioration in terms of trade on GDP growth, pp 
Note: We estimate underlying trend job growth as 0.75*3-month average payroll
growth + 0.25*9-month average household employment growth.
Note: Impulse response from a VAR model with terms of trade (logarithmic 
difference) and GDP (logarithmic difference) as endogenous variables, and the 
real effective exchange rate (logarithmic difference) and overseas GDP 
(logarithmic difference) as exogenous variables.

Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Europe  Emerging Markets (EM) 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We further lowered our 2026 Euro area real GDP growth
forecast and raised our 2026 headline inflation forecast to
reflect more prolonged oil disruptions amid the Iran war.
• We now expect the BoE to remain on hold for longer and
expect Bank Rate to remain at 3.75% through 2026 (vs.
quarterly cuts from July previously) given the growing
energy shock.
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• ECB policy; we continue to expect the ECB to remain on
hold this year, although the likelihood of hikes has risen
given the continued upward pressure on energy prices.
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We raised our 2026 GDP growth forecasts in Brazil and
Ecuador but lowered them in Mexico, Chile, and Peru while
revising inflation higher across the region amid the Iran war.
• We lowered our 2026 GDP growth forecast for China and
most other Asian economies while revising inflation up
across the region to reflect higher energy prices.
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• GCC economies, some of which could see a larger decline
in non-oil GDP amid the Iran war than during the pandemic.
• Hungary elections, in which Viktor Orban’s Fidesz party
faces its strongest challenge since returning to office.
Europe: energy price shock to growth 
Model-implied peak effect of energy price shock on the level 
GCC: potentially bigger growth hit than Covid 
Decline in non-oil GDP among GCC economies, % 
of real GDP vs. pre-conflict baseline, % 
Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Jan-24 Jul-24 Jan-25 Jul-25 Jan-26
-50
0
50
100
150
200
250
Breakeven rate, 
GS estimate
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0.0
1994-2014 2015-2025
-1.4
-1.2
-1.0
-0.8
-0.6
-0.4
-0.2
0.0
Germany France Italy Spain
Pre-war baseline
21-day Strait of Hormuz disruption scenario
60-day Strait of Hormuz disruption scenario 0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
Oman Saudi
Arabia
Kuwait Qatar Bahrain UAE
Potential decline in 2026
Covid-19 decline (2020)
We provide a brief snapshot on the most important economies for the global markets


===== Page 30 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 3 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
The unprecedented US and Israeli coordinated attack on Iran 
has resulted in the largest energy supply disruption in history 
(see pg. 9), as shipping traffic in the Strait of Hormuz—through 
which 20% of global oil supplies typically flow—has ground to a 
near halt and regional energy infrastructure has become the 
latest target in the conflict. While the economic and market 
impacts have so far remained relatively muted, the longer the 
conflict and the resulting chokehold on the Strait of Hormuz and 
global energy supply last, the less likely that will remain the 
case. With seemingly no end to the conflict in sight as it 
continues to escalate, its potential duration, impact on global 
energy supplies, and economic and market implications are Top 
of Mind.    
To gain insight on when and how the conflict could end, we first 
turn to Sanam Vakil, Director of the Middle East and North 
Africa Programme at Chatham House, Ambassador Dennis 
Ross, Fellow at The Washington Institute for Near East Policy, 
and Alec Phillips, GS Chief US Political Economist.  
Vakil, a longtime Iran watcher, argues that Iran views the 
conflict as nothing less than an “existential struggle” and is 
prepared to use its ample asymmetric drone capabilities for as 
long as is required to guarantee the Islamic Republic’s long-
term survival, which likely entails sanctions relief. “Until Iran 
sees a credible path to those guarantees,” she says, “it has 
little incentive to end this war.”  
Ambassador Ross, who served as a Middle East advisor in five 
US administrations, contends that President Trump likely would 
have already declared victory and ended the war were it not for 
Iran controlling transit through the Strait of Hormuz, which has 
the potential to inflict substantial pain on the global economy. 
Until that chokehold is broken, he says, the US cannot 
unilaterally end the war. Ross sees mediation— potentially 
facilitated by Russian President Putin— as the quickest way to 
end the war if the US can’t wrest control of the Strait, though 
he doesn’t see the conditions to enter a mediation in place at 
this point and says it isn’t clear who would even mediate on the 
Iranian side now that Former Speaker of the Parliament Ali 
Larijani has been killed. So, Ross seems to agree that an end to 
the war doesn’t look imminent.  
While Phillips takes no view on when the war will end, he 
argues that US political considerations don’t seem to be much 
of a constraint on the war’s duration for now, but that could 
change if gasoline prices continue to rise. While he explains 
that the Trump Administration has some tools in its toolbox to 
lower energy prices— several of which it has already 
deployed—these may not be enough to completely offset the 
price shock.   
Given the critical role the Strait of Hormuz is playing in the 
conflict and its potential outcome, we then speak with Vice 
Admiral Kevin Donegan, USN, Former Commander of the US 
Navy’s Fifth Fleet, to better understand the potential capability 
and capacity to restore flows through the Strait. He’s confident 
US and allied military convoys would be capable of ensuring 
safe transit through the Strait, explaining that the US and many 
other nations have long rehearsed how to keep vital waterways 
in the region open. But he clarifies that convoys would never be 
able to restore oil flows to normal levels, noting that potentially 
only 20% of flows could be restored. Returning oil flows to pre-
conflict levels, he says, would ultimately require Iran to stop 
harassing ships, which is a matter of incentives and leverage on 
all sides. But, even then, he argues that restoring flows would 
not be a matter of simply flipping a switch, because recovering 
the trust that transit would indeed be safe would take time.      
With a quick end to the conflict seeming increasingly elusive 
and global energy prices already high, GS Commodities 
Strategists Samantha Dart, Daan Struyven, and Alexandra 
Paulus then lay out potential energy supply disruption scenarios 
and the implications for prices, with a gradual recovery in oil 
supplies from here allowing Brent prices to decline close to 
$70/bbl in 4Q26 and a ramp-up in Qatari LNG production 
starting in early April allowing TTF prices to gradually decline to 
€30-40/MWh in 2H26.  
But, they estimate that longer disruptions could present 
substantial upside risk to prices, with Brent likely to exceed its 
2008 all-time high if depressed flows keep the market focused 
on the risk of lengthier disruptions. And even if LNG supplies 
begin to recover in the short term, they warn that the damage 
to Qatari LNG infrastructure is likely to delay the significant 
pressure on global LNG prices that they’ve expected from “the 
largest ever LNG supply growth wave” from 2027.    
So, how hard might the global economy be hit? Joseph Briggs, 
GS Senior Global Economist, provides some useful rules of 
thumb: each 10% increase in oil prices lowers global GDP by a 
bit more than 0.1%, raises global headline inflation by 0.2pp—
with larger impacts in Asia ex-China and Europe— and leads 
core inflation 0.03-0.06% higher, depending on the country. For 
now, these rules imply moderate hits to growth and boosts to 
inflation, but those impacts could quickly grow should energy 
flows remain disrupted for a prolonged period. (Farouk Soussa, 
GS Senior MENA Economist, then zeros in on the hit to MENA 
economies in particular, finding a significant near-term hit and 
possible long-term scars). 
And what about markets? Kamakshya Trivedi, GS Chief FX and 
EM Strategist, explains that markets so far have generally 
priced the conflict and resulting spike in energy prices as an 
inflationary shock, suggesting that growth downside could be 
the next shoe to drop if disruptions continue. If it is, he sees 
equities and relatively resilient cyclical assets facing increased 
pressure and the recent hawkish repricing in front-end yields 
reversing, creating an environment for a key safe haven to 
shine: the Japanese Yen.   
Allison Nathan, Editor  
Email: allison.nathan@gs.com     
Tel: 212-357-7504   
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC

Iran conflict: how long, and how bad?


===== Page 31 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 4
Top of Mind Issue 147
Sanam Vakil is Director of the Middle East and North Africa Programme at Chatham House.
Below, she argues that Iran views the current conflict as an existential struggle and will not
seek an end until it receives guarantees that ensure the Islamic Republic’s long-term survival.
The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.

Ashley Rhodes: Fundamentally,
what is this conflict about for Iran?
Sanam Vakil: Tehran sees the US and
Israel as waging a regime change war.
So, what remains of the Iranian regime
is fighting for its very survival. Its
strategy is to spread the costs of the
war as widely as possible, so that
when off‑ramps emerge, the war will
have become so costly for everyone involved that Iran can
obtain guarantees that it will not be repeated again whenever
external powers see fit. This strategy reflects lessons from the

Twelve-Day War in June 2025, which Iran felt it conceded too
early on, signaling weakness and inviting future challenges. So,
Iran isn’t seeking a quick de-escalation but rather responding to
what it perceives as an existential struggle.
Ashley Rhodes: But Iran is also bearing a tremendous cost
in this conflict. How long can it continue to do so?
Sanam Vakil: In conventional terms, the US and Israel are the
dominant military players and will likely succeed in

destroying/degrading Iran’s ballistic missile capabilities, its
defense industrial complex, and the remnants of its nuclear
program. But Iran isn’t fighting this war on conventional terms.
Instead, it’s playing for time— dragging the conflict out,
spreading out the costs, and forcing the US, Israel, and regional
countries to drain their resources, thereby putting them on the
defensive. Iran’s strength lies in asymmetric capabilities like
low-cost drones that can continue to inflict damage even as the

US and Israel make conventional military gains. That Iran is still
able to do so three weeks into the conflict underscores that it
can continue to endure significant costs.
Ashley Rhodes: How has Mojtaba Khamenei’s selection as
the new Supreme Leader influenced Iran’s strategy?
Sanam Vakil: Mojtaba Khamenei’s appointment as Supreme
Leader in the wake of his father’s death has had little to no
impact. His elevation is largely symbolic and likely reflects the

regime’s desire to preserve the status quo. The Islamic
Republic is often presented as a personalistic theocracy. In
reality, it’s a bureaucratic, institutional system in which power
is distributed among various factions. The Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps (IRGC) is particularly important given its
responsibility for the war effort and internal security, but the
importance of Speaker of the Parliament Ghalibaf and President
Pezeshkian shouldn’t be discounted.

The system is prepared for leadership losses and continues to
operate even with Mojtaba reportedly incapacitated. The IRGC
is managing the day-to-day defensive response through a
decentralized, mosaic command structure, while the
technocratic civilian government runs the country. And should
Mojtaba be removed, another leader would emerge,
underscoring the regime’s resilience and cadre of loyalists. The
Islamic Republic has endured for 47 years because its

leadership unites in times of crisis. This time is no different.
Ashley Rhodes: How and who could end this war?
Sanam Vakil: This war won’t end simply because the US or
Israel decide it should. The lesson Iran learned in the
Twelve-Day War is that this conflict must end in a conclusive
way that guarantees the Islamic Republic’s longer-term
survival, which entails securing an agreement to that effect.
Iran is currently making extreme zero-sum demands, including

that US military bases not be used to strike it. But Iran
ultimately needs sanctions relief, which will require
negotiations in which both it and the US make concessions on
longstanding issues— including Iran’s nuclear program and
broader regional security. Until Iran sees a credible path to
those guarantees, it has little incentive to end this war.
Ashley Rhodes: How likely is a domestic uprising that
brings an end to the conflict?
Sanam Vakil: Historically, sustained protests or mobilizations

are rare during wartime, and this conflict has allowed the
regime to intensify internal security, restrict movement, and
suppress dissent under the banner of national defense. In that
sense, the war actually works against the emergence of an
uprising, which no doubt factors into the regime’s motivations
for continuing the war, particularly with the brutal way the
massive January protests have been handled on people’s minds.
While most Iranians remain deeply dissatisfied with the system

and fearful that the war will further entrench the Islamic
Republic, they lack the organizational and military capacity to
mobilize. Revolutions require unity and planning—qualities
absent in the fragmented opposition. And even if the regime
emerges from the war militarily weakened, it will likely remain
capable of suppressing internal dissent. So, I don’t see a
scenario where domestic unrest hastens the end of the war.
Ashley Rhodes: What are you watching most closely to

determine when and how this conflict could end?
Sanam Vakil: First and foremost, I’m watching Iran’s appetite
for further escalation. Although Iran initially focused its efforts
on disrupting Gulf economic activity and effectively closing the
Strait of Hormuz, it recently broadened its approach by
launching direct attacks on regional energy infrastructure.
I’m also watching for any Iranian statements that indicate
interest in an off-ramp and, importantly, the specific terms it

asks for. A softening of Iran’s current out-of-left-field demands
may indicate a shift in Tehran’s cost-benefit calculus and reveal
that Iran is ready to enter serious negotiations. But for now, all
evidence suggests that the conflict will persist— Iran isn’t yet
signaling that it wants out, and the US has yet to achieve an
outcome it can plausibly claim as a victory. Until one or both of
those dynamics meaningfully changes, we should expect this

war to continue.
Interview with Sanam Vakil


===== Page 32 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 5 
Top of Mind Issue 147

Note: Top map does not show all energy infrastructure in the region.  
Source: Bloomberg, IEA, Kpler, Library of Congress, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
Special thanks to GS Commodities Research analyst Alexandra Paulus for data.  
Middle East oil flows, mapped out


===== Page 33 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 6
Top of Mind Issue 147
Ambassador Dennis Ross is Fellow at The Washington Institute for Near East Policy.
Previously, he served as Director of Policy Planning under President H.W. Bush, Special
Middle East Coordinator under President Clinton, and National Security Council Senior Director
for the Central Region under President Obama. Below, he argues that control of the Strait of
Hormuz will remain key in determining how and when the conflict ends.

The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.
Allison Nathan: There are conflicting
narratives about how the US and
Israel came to go to war together
for the first time. What’s your view?
Ambassador Dennis Ross: On both
the far-right and the far-left of the US
political spectrum there is a narrative
that Israel dragged the US into this
war. Destroying Iranian capabilities that
threaten Israel and the broader region has been a strategic

priority for Israeli Prime Minister Netanyahu for 30 years. I refer
to it as his “Winston Churchill issue.” And he has undoubtedly
made the case for this to President Trump. So, it’s possible that
Netanyahu influenced Trump’s thinking. During Trump’s first
term, Israel, in a covert operation in Tehran, seized 55,000
documents—the “nuclear archive”—that detail ed Iran’s nuclear
program. This archive demonstrated that, contrary to its
denials, Iran had been developing nuclear weapons—with plans

for at least five such weapons. So, perhaps Netanyahu was
able to influence Trump’s thinking with the intelligence that
Israel provided in the past and more recently.
But Trump made the decision to go to war. It was Trump who
built up a huge armada in the region and said in response to the
Iranian protests in January that the US was “locked and
loaded” and “help was on the way.” In fact, the day after US
Secretary of State Rubio explained the imminent need for the

US to strike Iran because Israel was planning to do so and the
US would be a target for Iranian retaliation, so better for the US
to strike first, Trump disagreed, saying instead that he probably
forced Israel’s hand. I've never seen anybody who determines
what President Trump does other than himself.
If anything, it’s Netanyahu who cannot say no to Trump. Trump
has all the leverage in the world on Netanyahu. He has put
Trump on a pedestal for all the help and support he has

provided to Israel over the years, including a readiness to attack
Iran last June, which no other US president had been willing to
do. So, when Trump decides, Netanyahu responds. For
example, when Iran fired missiles at Israel just after a ceasefire
in the Twelve-Day War was supposed to go into effect, and
Israel launched 50 planes in response, Trump told Netanyahu to
turn those planes around, and he did.
Allison Nathan: Iran poses an existential threat to Israel,

but not to the US. So, why now for the US to strike Iran?
Ambassador Dennis Ross: I don't speak for the Administration
and am humble about predicting Trump. But my interpretation
is that the Administration saw this as a moment of opportunity.
Although Trump said the US had obliterated Iran’s nuclear
capability last June, intelligence suggested that the Iranians
were beginning to clean out some of their nuclear weapon
sites, probably with an eye to reconstituting them. That created

a perceived need to do something. But it was the absence of
any significant air defense in the wake of the Twelve-Day War,
which left Iran militarily vulnerable, that created a sense of
opportunity. There was also the sense that the Iranian regime
might be teetering given the massive January protests and the
brutality with which the regime responded, which was seen as
a sign of weakness. So, the Administration seemed to
assume—wrongly —that taking out the Supreme Leader would

lead to regime collapse and seized the opportunity to strike.
Allison Nathan: Some divergence seems to exist between
the US and Israel’s war strategy/goals. Is that true?
Ambassador Dennis Ross: I see more convergence than
divergence between their war aims right now. Israel absolutely
aims to end the current Iranian regime. That might be Trump’s
preference too, but this war will probably end without the
regime collapsing, even if it has been terribly weakened. So, US

and Israeli goals likely diverge somewhat in that sense.
But their goals converge in the shared conviction that Iran’s
military capabilities must be damaged sufficiently to avoid the
need for another war anytime soon. As I mentioned, Iran was
already beginning to return to its nuclear sites and had also
recovered most of its ballistic missile production capability
since the Twelve-Day War. Money and weapons were flowing
back to Iran’s proxy network, even as the proxies have proven

largely ineffective yet expensive to support. So, the Iranians
were acting as if the dramatic weakening of the proxies and the
Twelve-Day war had never happened; whatever the cost, they
had learned no lessons and were keeping the same strategy.
Both Trump and Netanyahu wanted the Iranians to understand
that strategy would end one way or the other. As such, the US
and Israel’s key shared objective in this conflict is to weaken
Iran to the point that even if it wanted to reconstitute its

proxies, nuclear program, and ballistic missile and drone
capability, the cost would be simply too great. Bottom line: the
goal is to ensure Iran cannot practically pose a threat to Israel
and others in the region for at least five years, if not longer.
Allison Nathan: Iran seems to be pursuing a strategy of
inflicting as much pain as possible in the hopes of securing
a better outcome for itself. Is there a point at which the
costs of the war will be too great for the US/Israel to bear?

Ambassador Dennis Ross: This is an area where I see
potential for a real divergence between the two countries. The
Israelis can continue this conflict for as long as it takes. While
Netanyahu doesn’t have strong support in the country writ
large, he has almost 100% support for dealing with the Iran
threat. Remember, Ayatollah Ali Khamenei had a clock ticking
Interview with Dennis Ross


===== Page 34 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 7
Top of Mind Issue 147
down to the end of the Israeli state in downtown Tehran. The
Israeli public has been sleeping in shelters every night for fear
of missile strikes from Iran or its proxies. The attitude is do
enough that this won’t be necessary again for a long time.
That’s not the case in the US. This conflict marks a rare
instance of the US going to war without the support of the
majority of the public. So, Trump isn’t benefiting from a “rally

around the flag” effect, which may owe partly to the lack of any
serious effort on the Administration’s part to explain what it’s
doing and why. That said, the President likely feels he has
some license to continue for now. I'm not sure that those
around him who are worried about affordability given surging
energy and fertilizer prices, which will lead to higher gasoline,
airline, food prices, and beyond, agree. But my sense is that the
President will care more about the inflationary implications of

the conflict as the midterm elections approach. So, he has
some license but probably also some endpoint in mind.
Allison Nathan: Can the US/Israel end the war unilaterally?
Ambassador Dennis Ross: The key to the US being able to
walk away is the Strait of Hormuz. On his own, Trump probably
would have already declared victory, pointing to the amount of
damage the US and Israel have done to Iran’s key targets,
naval, missile, and drone capabilities, and nuclear weapons

program. He likely can rightly claim today that Iran won’t be
able to pose a conventional threat to its neighbors for at least
five years. But he can't say he’s won and stop as long as Iran
controls who can and can’t export oil and sail through the Strait.
At this point, the Iranian threat has been severely diminished;
it’s firing a relatively small number of ballistic missiles and even
drones every day. Some of this is Iran holding back to preserve

an ongoing capability to fire missiles and drones to try to outlast
the US. But Iran also doesn’t have the capability to fire much
more in no small part because the US can act preemptively
once launchers emerge. Given the amount of firepower the
Iranians still retain, they are likely capable of continuing to fire at
their current rate for at least several more weeks, if not longer.
So, Iran’s capacity to threaten hasn't disappeared, but has been
severely reduced. If this, combined with a convoy system that

helps protect ships, enables the US to wrest control of the
Strait away from Iran, Trump would be able to declare an end to
the war. And even if the Iranians don’t agree, there wouldn’t be
much they could do about it. Of course, many questions remain
about whether the US can achieve such control. It may not be
possible to stop Iran from threatening ships without seizing
territory along its coast. A US Marine Expeditionary Unit is
currently en route to the Middle East, which may open the door

for island seizures, and the US and some allies have seemingly
stepped up their efforts to reopen the Strait.
Allison Nathan: If the US can’t gain control of the Strait,
would a quick end to the war still be possible?
Ambassador Dennis Ross: Barring wresting control of the
Strait, the only way the conflict resolves soon is through
mediation. Russian President Putin seems well-placed to serve
as the mediator since Iran doesn’t really have any other friends,

so it has incentive to respond to him, and Putin also has a direct
line into Trump, who also seems to be somewhat responsive to
Putin. Both sides have something to offer in a negotiation. Iran
could cede control of the Strait and pledge to not close it again
and hand over its 440 kilograms of highly enriched uranium— or
more likely allow the Russians to excavate it from its current
position, buried deep under rubble, making it a massive project
for anyone—which would allow Trump to say he’s put an end

to the Iranian nuclear program for a very long time. In return,
Iranians—as well as the Russians, if they do help—would seek
guarantees of no new attacks on Iran as long as they continue
to comply with the agreement as well as some sanctions relief.
But the conditions to enter a mediation don’t seem to be in
place at this point as both sides further harden their positions.
My sense is Trump would still need to show a changed reality
in the Strait before any mediation could occur to avoid looking

like the one who needs a way out. He is sending even more
forces to the region in the hopes of gaining the whip hand to
that end. But Iran also wants to show it’s not the one who
needs to end the war, even as the costs continue to grow. So,
mediation seems more likely than a unilateral end as long as
the Strait is in play, but it doesn’t seem imminent.
Allison Nathan: Who would Putin mediate with in Iran?
Ambassador Dennis Ross: If one person embodied the

leadership in the wake of Ali Khamenei’s death, it wasn’t
Mojtaba Khamenei but Former Speaker of the Parliament Ali
Larijani, who was recently also killed. Larijani had relationships
with every regime faction, including the Islamic Revolutionary
Guard Corps (IRGC). If anyone could orchestrate a move to end
the war through mediation, it would have been him.
Although Mojtaba Khamenei has received much attention, he
seems unlikely to be able to speak for the regime. His physical

state remains unclear. Even if we assume he is physically ok,
he lacks authority. He was his father's son but had no public
persona or religious credentials that would have made him an
ayatollah. He ran the Supreme Leader's office, which had
significant power and tentacles in every institution and facet of
Iranian society, but he was just an implementer. President
Pezeshkian also doesn't have the same access as Larijani did to
the different factions nor his authority or credibility. Perhaps

Mohammad Bagher Ghalibaf, the current Speaker of the
Parliament, could provide some weight, but that’s unclear. So,
a hole currently exists in the Iranian leadership lineup, which
reduces the prospect of a mediated outcome in the near term.
Allison Nathan: So, what are you watching from here?
Ambassador Dennis Ross: I am watching the Russians and
the Chinese. As we discussed, the Russians can play a major
role as mediator. The Chinese, though, can pressure the

Iranians. The Iranian position has always been that if they can't
export, nobody can. But right now, the Iranians are saying that
they can export and will determine who else can. The minute
the US takes the stand that Iran won’t be allowed to export if it
continues to prevent others from doing so, China would likely
strongly object given its dependency on Middle Eastern energy
supplies and would pressure the Iranians to change course.
Again, at the end of the day, this all comes down to the Strait

of Hormuz. Trump cannot end the war as long as Iran controls
it. So, either the US does something dramatic to deny Iran that
leverage or waits until conditions shift enough to allow for a
mediated outcome. That’s what we should be watching for.


===== Page 35 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 8 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Alec Phillips explores US political pressures 
amid the Iran war and the Administration’s 
response to the energy price shock 
President Trump and his cabinet have consistently indicated the 
Iran war will likely last 4-6 weeks. On March 15, Energy 
Secretary Wright said it would end “in the next few weeks” 
and on March 17, Trump described the timetable as “a couple 
more weeks, not much longer.” While US military objectives—
elimination of Iran’s nuclear program, missile capabilities, and 
naval assets—will likely drive US decisions, the economic and 
political costs of the war could become constraints.  
So far, the lack of broad public backing for the war does not 
appear to be weighing on support for the Administration or 
congressional Republicans. Polls conducted before and after 
the first US strikes show Trump’s approval rating holding 
steady at 42.6%, while support for Republicans in this year’s 
midterm election is also roughly unchanged (Democrats still 
lead by 4pp). Importantly, President Trump’s base appears to 
broadly support the war, with self-reported MAGA supporters 
viewing the war even more favorably than Republicans overall. 
President Trump’s base appears to broadly support the war 
Support for the war/strikes on Iran, %

Source: YouGov, NBC, CNN, Angus-Reid, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
But public opinion may become a constraint if retail gasoline 
prices, currently hovering around $4/gallon (national average), 
rise further. Financial and commodity markets could also play a 
role. On March 17, President Trump indicated that markets 
influenced his thinking on striking Iran, citing record equity 
market prices as providing an opening to enter the conflict.   
A soft check on the war’s duration might come from the War 
Powers Resolution of 1973, which requires the president to 
obtain congressional authorization for the use of military force 
within 60 days. While unlikely to force a change in military 
strategy, nearing the 60-day mark could raise public pressure to 
clarify objectives and endpoints.  
Trump also signaled that his planned early-April meeting with 
Chinese President Xi would be postponed by around six weeks. 
With this meeting seemingly unlikely to occur while the conflict 
remains ongoing, the timing might also provide some insight 
into how Trump is thinking about the duration of the conflict.  
In the meantime, the White House has taken a few steps to 
lower energy prices:  
 Release from the Strategic Petroleum Reserve (SPR): In 
coordination with IEA members, the US announced a draw of 
172mb over 120 days, or an average of 1.4mb/d. In theory, 
the total amount or daily rate could increase, as the SPR 
holds 415mb with a theoretical maximum draw rate of 
around 4mb/d for 30 days and around 2mb/d after 60 days. 
On March 19, Treasury Secretary Bessent suggested US 
SPR releases could exceed the recently-announced amounts. 
However, we expect the Administration to be cautious for 
now, as US SPR stocks are already below 60% of capacity 
following the 2022-2023 drawdowns and would drop to 33% 
by mid-year under the recently-announced plan.  
 Sanctions relief: Treasury waived sanctions on purchases of 
Russian crude and refined products on the water as of March 
12 (estimated at 130mb). On March 19, Bessent suggested 
the US might similarly waive sanctions on Iranian oil on the 
water (estimated at 105mb). Treasury also provided a general 
license to purchase Venezuelan oil that, unlike the Russia-
related waiver, is not explicitly temporary and applies to new 
production as well as to oil on the water.  
 Jones Act waiver: The 1920 Jones Act prohibits shipping 
between US ports by foreign-built/flagged/owned vessels. 
The Administration waived this rule for 60 days, which could 
ease oil and refined products transport from the Gulf Coast 
(including the SPR) to other US regions (particularly the East 
Coast). This might incrementally reduce fuel prices and also 
signals the Administration’s willingness to temporarily break 
with policies it supports to address higher energy costs.  
Further steps are possible. The Administration seems likely to 
waive limits on gasoline’s ethanol content in summer, allowing 
for a greater share of lower-cost ethanol in gasoline blends.  
The President also likely has the authority under IEEPA to ban 
the export of crude and refined products and might become 
more inclined to use it if disagreements with allies reemerge 
over military assistance in and around the Persian Gulf. That 
said, Wright said on March 12 that an export ban was not under 
consideration, and media reports indicate White House officials 
reiterated this to oil executives on March 19. It is also far from 
clear that a ban would benefit US consumers, and it could 
discourage domestic shale oil production. So, while very 
plausible, we don’t view such a ban as the base case.  
Other policy changes would require congressional support. The 
most obvious would be a suspension of the $0.18/gallon 
federal gas tax, which raises around $30bn/yr. We think the 
odds lean against it, as a good chance exists that prices would 
have started to fall by the time Congress could agree. While we 
expect a few states to consider suspending their gas taxes, 
which collectively raise $42bn/yr, as some did in 2022, a broad 
suspension seems unlikely as states no longer have the fiscal 
cushion they did following Covid-related federal fiscal relief.  
Beyond fuel taxes, the recent developments look likely to 
restart talk of a second party-line fiscal package passed through 
the reconciliation process, but we remain skeptical that major 
legislation along these lines will pass this year. Trump looks 
likely to soon request $100-200bn in supplemental defense 
funding, but Democrats will likely object and thin Republican 
majorities make passage of a party-line reconciliation bill 
difficult. However, if such a spending package gains political 
momentum, it could become a vehicle for other items like a gas 
tax holiday or affordability-focused measures. For now though, 
we do not expect such a package to pass this year.  
Alec Phillips, Chief US Political Economist 
Email: alec.phillips@gs.com   Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Tel:  202-637-3746 
0
20
40
60
80
100
Democratic Independent Republican MAGA
Iran war: US political pressures


===== Page 36 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 9 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
The size of the current hit to oil flows from the Persian Gulf marks the largest oil supply shock in history…  
Historical oil supply hit events (% of global supply, lhs) vs. corresponding price change (%, rhs)

Note: Peak price is the highest daily close price. For the 2026 Iran War, peak hit to supply is defined as the estimated late st hit to Persian Gulf oil exports based on 
reported vessel count; peak price is taken to be the highest realized daily close price  since February 28. 
Source: IEA, ICE, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
…which has led oil prices sharply higher, although the oil price response is so far smaller than during the 2003 Iraq War and 1980 Iran-
Iraq war…  
Crude oil prices, $2014/bbl

Note: 2026 is year-to-date data. 
Source: Bloomberg, BP, Federal Reserve, Haver Analytics, various news sources, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
…potentially as the world is much less vulnerable to oil price shocks now than it was in prior decades amid declining energy intensity  
Energy intensity (megajoules per $2021 PPP GDP), indexed, 2000=100

*Data as of 2022 for EU and US; data as of 2021 for World and East Asia & Pacific.  
Source: World Bank, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Special thanks to GS Commodities Research analyst Alexandra Paulus for data.

0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
2026
Iran War
2022
Russia
Invasion
of Ukraine
2011
Libyan
Civil War
2003
Iraq War
(Gulf War 2)
1990
Iraq Invasion
of Kuwait
(Gulf War I)
1980
Iran-Iraq
War
1973
Oil
Embargo
Peak hit to supply (lhs)
Price change from 3m before to peak (rhs)
Price change from 3m before to 12m after (rhs)
Export shock Production shocks
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
1861
1864
1867
1870
1873
1876
1879
1882
1885
1888
1891
1894
1897
1900
1903
1906
1909
1912
1915
1918
1921
1924
1927
1930
1933
1936
1939
1942
1945
1948
1951
1954
1957
1960
1963
1966
1969
1972
1975
1978
1981
1984
1987
1990
1993
1996
1999
2002
2005
2008
2011
2014
2017
2020
2023
2026*
US recession Crude oil prices, $2014/barrel
1973-1974
Arab states 
institute 
embargo against 
countries 
supporting Israel
in the Yom 
Kippur War
1862-1865
US Civil War drives up 
commodity prices
1894
Cholera epidemic 
cuts production in 
Baku, Azerbaijan, 
contributing to 1895 
spike
1920
Rapid adoption of the 
automobile drastically 
raises oil consumption, 
leading to the "West 
Coast Gasoline 
Famine"
1931
Prices hit record 
low as onset of 
Great Depression 
reduces demand
1978-1979
Iran cuts production and 
exports during revolution,
cancels contracts with 
US companies 
1980
Iran-Iraq War begins; 
exports from the 
region slow further
1990
Iraq invades
Kuwait; Kuwaiti 
exports cut 
until 1994
1980s
Demand
response 
to supply 
shocks 
pushes 
prices 
down
2011
Arab Spring; 
Libyan civil war 
disrupts output
Mid-2000s
Asia drives 
rising 
demand as 
production 
stagnates 
and spare 
capacity 
declines
1865-1890
Prices boom 
and bust with 
fluctuations in 
US drilling 1947
Post-war 
automotive 
boom creates 
fuel shortages 
in some US 
states 
1988
Iran, Iraq 
increase 
output with 
end of war
1891-1894
Pennsylvania 
oilfields begin to 
decline, setting the 
stage for higher
prices in 1895
2014-2015
Global 
oversupply 
leaves oil 
markets 
searching for 
new equilibrium
March 2026
Oil flows 
through the 
Strait of 
Hormuz are 
disrupted amid 
the US/Israel-
Iran war
60
65
70
75
80
85
90
95
100
105
2000 2001 2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011 2012 2013 2014 2015 2016 2017 2018 2019 2020 2021 2022
World US European Union East Asia & Pacific
The oil supply disruption, visualized


===== Page 37 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 10 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Vice Admiral Kevin Donegan, USN (ret) served as Commander of the US Navy’s Fifth Fleet, 
Commander of the 32 Nation Combined Maritime Forces in the Middle East, and Director of 
the Navy Staff and Deputy Chief of Naval Operations for Operations, Strategy and Planning at 
the Pentagon. Below, he argues that the US has made significant progress in achieving its 
military objectives in the Iran conflict, but restoring Strait of Hormuz oil flows to normal levels 
won’t be achieved through military convoys alone.   
The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.
Jenny Grimberg: What are the US 
military objectives in the Iran 
conflict? 
Vice Admiral Kevin Donegan: 
Despite all the political back and forth, 
the US military campaign’s objectives 
have always been clear and stable: 
destroy the Iranian national security 
apparatus’ ability to project power 
outside their borders by degrading Iran’s extensive ballistic 
missile and attack drone capabilities and the naval capabilities 
used to hold the economic chokepoint of the Strait of Hormuz 
hostage. The US has unsurprisingly done a good job in 
defanging Iran and degrading those capabilities. The US’ 
targeting of Iran’s mobile launchers and command-and-control 
nodes and use of Low-cost Uncrewed Combat Attack Systems 
(LUCAS) has significantly reduced Iran’s ability to launch 
ballistic missiles and drones— Iran went from launching 1,000 
missiles on day one of the conflict to a few hundred each day 
after during the first week to now only around several dozen 
missiles a day. The US Navy has also sunk or damaged almost 
all Iranian Navy vessels.  
Iran has retaliated in several ways, most of which were 
expected—the US always knew Iran would hold the Strait of 
Hormuz hostage and attack regional US military bases and Gulf 
allies’ territory. What has been unexpected is Iran’s willingness 
to attack Gulf nations’ regional civilian infrastructure—hotels, 
airports, etc.— in an effort to drive the Gulf states to pressure 
the US to end the conflict. But the Gulf states haven’t done so, 
either publicly or behind the scenes, and are instead more 
worried about the prospect of the US ending its military 
campaign too early. The last thing they want is for the conflict 
to end with a half-defanged Iran.

Despite all the political back and forth, 
the US military campaign’s objectives have 
always been clear and stable: destroy the 
Iranian national security apparatus’ ability to 
project power outside their borders.” 
Jenny Grimberg: Can the US ultimately “finish the job” 
without putting boots on the ground? 
Vice Admiral Kevin Donegan: Yes. The US undoubtedly has 
enough firepower to accomplish its military objectives. The US 
initially used advanced at-range weapons like Tomahawk Land 
Attack Missiles (TLAMs) and extended-range missiles to gain 
air superiority over Iran. Now that it has air superiority and can 
conduct land, sea, and air operations without Iranian 
interference, it has shifted to using its ample arsenal of lower-
tech and lower-cost weapons. The US’ ability to achieve its 
objectives using its military hardware has never been in doubt.  
What’s likely impossible to achieve without boots on the 
ground is regime change. The first wave of US/Israeli strikes 
changed the regime’s leadership, not the regime itself, which 
remains even after successive waves of strikes. The Islamic 
Revolutionary Guard Corps (IRGC), the core pillar of the regime, 
is deeply woven into Iranian society, from internal security to 
banking institutions to construction companies. It also has an 
internal security apparatus that oppresses the population and 
its own intelligence arm. And it controls Iran’s missiles, drones, 
and sea mining capabilities. So, the IRGC isn’t a traditional 
military, and the US would have to dismantle most of the 
Iranian government system to remove the IRGC, which would 
require ground forces. But again, regime change has never 
been a US military objective. President Trump and the Israelis 
have mentioned it, but the Commander of US Central 
Command (CENTCOM) Admiral Brad Cooper and Chairman of 
the Joint Chiefs of Staff General Dan Caine were never given 
this as an objective.

The US has unsurprisingly done a good 
job in defanging Iran and degrading [Iran’s] 
capabilities.”   
Jenny Grimberg: Even if the US has gone a long way 
toward achieving its military objectives, won’t Iran’s 
asymmetric capabilities—its low -cost drones and sea 
mines—present ongoing challenges?  
Vice Admiral Kevin Donegan: While the threat from ballistic 
missiles will likely be constrained as Iran remains leery of firing 
them for fear of exposing launch and storage sites, prolific 
weapons will remain a threat. Iran manufactures attack drones 
by the tens of thousands. This drone threat will be severely 
degraded but will never be zero. As a result, we can expect this 
threat, which is most effective against soft targets, to linger 
even after the US military operation ends. 
Iran also has plenty of sea mines, ranging from the simple to 
the sophisticated, that it can threaten to lay in vital waterways. 
But the US and Israeli military campaign has destroyed many 
Iranian minelaying vessels and storage bunkers. So, Iran can no 
longer deploy sophisticated, anchored mines in specific 
Interview with Kevin Donegan


===== Page 38 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 11 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
locations, instead having to resort to deploying drifting mines 
from non-military vessels like fishing boats. These mines are 
unpredictable because they are a slave to the strong currents in 
the Strait of Hormuz and may not stay in the areas that are 
problematic for ships.  
Laying sea mines in the Strait of Hormuz is also ultimately 
counterproductive to Iran’s needs because the vast majority of 
Iran’s oil exports flow through it and up to 60% of Iran’s 
government budget comes from oil exports, mostly to China. 
For that reason, the rhetoric that has come out of Iran is not 
that it has closed the Strait, but that it controls the Strait.  
 While the threat from ballistic missiles 
will likely be constrained as Iran remains leery 
of firing them for fear of exposing launch and 
storage sites, prolific weapons will remain a 
threat.”

Jenny Grimberg: If Iran wants to continue causing trouble 
in the Strait of Hormuz, is it practical to think that convoys 
could successfully transit through it? 
Vice Admiral Kevin Donegan: I’m confident the US and its 
allies have the capability to escort commercial ships through 
the Strait. The US has long rehearsed how to keep the Strait of 
Hormuz and the Bab al-Mandab Strait open, and under much 
more challenging conditions than exist today in terms of Iranian 
capabilities. The most recent such exercises took place in early 
2025 with 30 nations participating.  
The US can obviously deploy meaningful capabilities, but so can 
many other countries, whether it’s ships, staff, or experience. 
The US 5th Fleet Commander knows exactly what each nation 
can contribute because this exercise has been rehearsed 
annually for the past 15 years. France and Australia have very 
capable ships, and France has experience owing to its fight 
against the Houthis in the Red Sea. Greece has also received 
substantial training because of the Houthis in particular. The 
UK, Germany, Japan, South Korea, Turkey, Italy, Spain, and 
Egypt are also equipped to participate to varying degrees.  
The basic idea would be to create a mobile sanctuary of 
security as the ships transit the Strait, which would include air 
cover, ships, drones, satellite assets, and intelligence. Securing 
a convoy is actually more achievable today than what’s been 
planned for because of the US’ air superiority over the Iranian 
coast and the severe degradation of Iranian military capability. 
And while Iran, even with no radar capabilities, will be able to 
locate the convoys, which would certainly be targets, the US 
will likely have little tolerance for hostile boats in the water near 
the convoys and is well-equipped to deal with the residual 
Iranian capabilities launched from shore to attack the convoys.  
Whether the US and other countries have the political will and 
desire to participate in a convoy is a different question, and one 
we’re currently seeing play out. The Trump Administration said 
that restoring the free flow of commerce through the Strait of 
Hormuz should be everybody’s job. While many countries 
initially refused or were noncommittal, the leaders of the UK, 
France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, and Japan have since 
issued a joint statement expressing their “readiness to 
contribute to appropriate efforts to ensure safe passage 
through the Strait.” Caine has also said that some allies are 
using Apache attack helicopters to “handle one-way attack 
drones” as part of a stepped-up effort to reopen the Strait. 
How this issue evolves bears close watch.   
Jenny Grimberg: Even if convoys could allow some ship 
passage through the Strait, could they do so at the scale 
required to restore the flows the global economy needs? 
Vice Admiral Kevin Donegan: No. It is important to 
distinguish between capability and capacity. Convoys would 
never be able to restore oil flows through the Strait to normal 
levels. They don’t scale well because ships must be escorted 
out as well as back in.  
So, convoys may only be able to restore potentially 20% of 
normal oil flows, with overland pipelines adding another 15-
20%, though this will depend significantly on how the conflict 
ends and how Iran reacts to the first few escorts. The bottom 
line is that no on-off switch exists here—the conflict won’t stop 
one day and oil flow normally the next. A negotiated ceasefire 
would be the fastest path to restoring normal flow. And even 
then, shipping, insurance, tanker, and LNG companies would 
need time to gauge Iran’s behavior and gain trust before 
resuming transit.

I’m confident the US and its allies have 
the capability to escort commercial ships 
through the Strait... [but] it is important to 
distinguish between capability and capacity. 
Convoys would never be able to restore oil 
flows through the Strait to normal levels.” 
Ultimately, restoring oil flows to pre-conflict levels will require 
Iran to stop harassing ships in the Strait. It may not be 
incentivized to do so now, especially if the IRGC is currently 
making decisions as opposed to more seasoned political figures 
like the late Ali Larijani that tend to think more about the longer-
term picture. But my sense is that eventually the Iranian regime 
will, because it needs cash and sanctions relief to appease its 
population and wants to ensure its survival, which is its singular 
most important goal.  
The US also has cards to play. It has the capability to hold 
crucial Iranian flows from Kharg Island hostage. The US could 
also stop the "shadow fleet" carriers on either side of the Gulf 
that are moving Iranian oil. And regional Gulf nations like Oman 
and Qatar can also apply pressure. So, restoration of flows is 
not so much a question of convoys but of incentives and 
leverage on all sides, and no switch exists to just turn on flows 
when the conflict ends.


===== Page 39 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 12 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
The GS commodity research team explores 
energy disruptions amid the Iran war 
As the world continues to digest the largest shock to energy 
supplies in history, we assess the impact on prices, finding that 
price risks are skewed to the upside both in the short term and 
over the longer term given the potential for lengthier 
disruptions and persistent supply losses. 
The estimated hit to oil flows from the Persian Gulf is 17.6mb/d, 
making today’s shock the largest in history 
Est. oil flows from Persian Gulf based on reported vessel count, mb/d (lhs), % 
of normal (rhs)

Note: Normal flows are assumed to be 20mb/d for Strait of Hormuz and 2025 
average for Yanbu (1.4mb/d) + Fujairah (1.7mb/d). 
Source: S&P Global Commodities at Sea, Kpler, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Est. hit to Persian Gulf oil exports based on reported vessel count, mb/d

Note: Hit is calculated relative to normal flows.  
Source: S&P Global Commodities at Sea, Kpler, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Current state of the oil shock: the largest in history 
We estimate that the hit to total oil flows from the Persian Gulf 
stands at 17.6mb/d (17% of global supply), making today’s 
shock the largest in history and 18 times larger than the peak 
April 2022 hit to Russian oil production. Oil flows through the 
Strait of Hormuz are down 97% from their normal levels 
(0.6mb/d versus 20mb/d normal) as the physical risks of 
crossing the Strait remain very high, with the latest confirmed 
attack on an oil tanker occurring three days ago. Some flows 
are being redirected to pipeline-adjacent ports outside of the 
Persian Gulf, most notably Yanbu (Red Sea, Saudi Arabia) via 
the Saudi East-West pipeline and Fujairah (Gulf of Oman, UAE) 
via the Habshan-Fujairah pipeline, but the extent of redirection 
is capped by the combined spare capacity of the two pipelines 
—our latest estimate of net redirections stands at just 1.8mb/d.  
Near-term oil prices: high risk premium required 
We expect oil prices to continue trending higher in the short 
term, until the market gains more certainty about how long the 
disruption will last, especially in light of increasing strikes on 
energy infrastructure. This risk premium is required to generate 
enough precautionary demand destruction to hedge against the 
risk that commercial oil inventories might fall to critically low 
levels. Brent is likely to exceed its 2008 all-time high if 
depressed flows keep the market focused on the risk of 
lengthier disruptions. Any rise in market-perceived risks of US 
export restrictions would likely further widen the Brent-WTI 
price gap. 
Medium-term oil prices: the longer, the higher 
Given the fluidity of the situation, we consider three scenarios 
to assess the potential direction of oil prices over the medium 
term. 
Given uncertainty around the longevity of the conflict and 
associated oil disruptions, we consider three potential scenarios  
GS estimated impact on 4Q2026/4Q2027 Brent oil prices under different  
Strait of Hormuz disruption and recovery scenarios, $/bbl

Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. 
For the first two scenarios, we estimate 2026Q4 prices, relative 
to a no-Iran shock counterfactual of $62/bbl, as a function of 1) 
cumulative hits to production and commercial oil inventories, 2) 
global policy responses, and 3) a boost from positioning. 
In a (most optimistic) first scenario where flows through 
the Strait of Hormuz gradually recover from here and 
return to pre-war levels within a month, we would expect 
prices to average $71/bbl in 4Q2026. This  supply shock would 
translate into a 6% (617mb) hit to global commercial oil 
inventories. The release of strategic petroleum reserves (SPR) 
by IEA member states and China, as well as the uptake of 
Russian oil on water, would likely offset 50% of the hit, 
translating into $6/bbl upside to fair value prices. We assume 
positioning would provide an additional $3/bbl boost, bringing 
our estimate of 4Q2026 price upside to $9/bbl. 
In a second scenario where flows remain disrupted for 60 
days (through April 28th), we think 4Q2026 prices would 
average $93/bbl, as the supply shock would lead to a 
0
20
40
60
80
100
0
5
10
15
20
25
Normal
Feb 28
Mar 01
Mar 02
Mar 03
Mar 04
Mar 05
Mar 06
Mar 07
Mar 08
Mar 09
Mar 10
Mar 11
Mar 12
Mar 13
Mar 14
Mar 15
Mar 16
Mar 17
Mar 18
Yanbu + Fujairah
Strait of Hormuz
Total, 4-day moving average (rhs)
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
Feb-28
Mar-01
Mar-02
Mar-03
Mar-04
Mar-05
Mar-06
Mar-07
Mar-08
Mar-09
Mar-10
Mar-11
Mar-12
Mar-13
Mar-14
Mar-15
Mar-16
Mar-17
Mar-18
Strait of Hormuz
Yanbu + Fujairah redirection
Total
Total, 4-day moving average
Latest level total (4DMA): 
17.6mb/d
0
10
20
30
40
50
21-Day Disruption,
Full Production
Recovery
60-Day Disruption,
Full Production
Recovery
60-Day Disruption,
2mb/d Lower Mideast
Production After
Reopening
Upside to 4Q2026 prices Upside to
4Q2027 prices
Sizing the energy shock


===== Page 40 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 13 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
significantly larger nearly 20% (1816mb) hit to global 
commercial oil inventories. Even with increased releases of 
global SPR (although constrained by logistical speed limits) and 
Russian oil on water, policy responses would likely only offset 
about 30% of the hit, translating into upside of $26/bbl. 
Combined with an additional $5/bbl boost from positioning, we 
estimate 4Q2026 price upside at $31/bbl. 
Finally, in a third, more extreme scenario where Hormuz 
flows remain very low for 60 days and significant scarring 
to long-run supply occurs (specifically, that Middle Eastern 
production remains 2mb/d lower after the Strait opens), we 
estimate that prices would reach about $110/bbl in 4Q2027, 
consisting of over $40/bbl of upside relative to a no-Iran shock 
counterfactual of roughly $70/bbl. 
Risks to long-term oil prices 
We also consider four risks to long-term oil prices—two on the 
supply side and two on the demand side. 
On the supply side, the primary long-term risk to prices is the 
potential for oil supply to remain low for longer if production 
potential is damaged, which would pose upside price risk. The 
five prior largest supply shocks (Iran-Iraq War, Gulf War I, Gulf 
War II, Libyan Civil War, and Russian invasion of Ukraine) 
suggest that production four years after the shock remains over 
40% below normal levels, largely driven by damage to oil 
infrastructure and low investment. This risk could be particularly 
significant to today’s shock given that Iran and the seven other 
Persian Gulf countries collectively produced 30% of the world’s 
crude oil in 2025. Additionally, roughly 25% of the region’s 
crude oil is produced offshore, where engineering and 
geological complexity requires significantly longer ramp-up 
times than for onshore production. 
The five prior largest supply shocks suggest that production four 
years after the shock remains over 40% below normal levels 
Hit to oil production in affected country 4yrs after shock, % (lhs), mb (rhs)


===== Page 41 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 14 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Estimated daily oil flows through the critical Strait of Hormuz are 
down 90%+ from normal levels... 
Estimated oil exports through the Strait of Hormuz based on 
reported vessel count, mb/d (lhs), % of normal (rhs)

...leading to increased redirection via the ports in Yanbu (Red Sea, 
Saudi Arabia) and Fujairah (Gulf of Oman, UAE) 
Estimated oil flows from Persian Gulf based on reported vessel 
count, mb/d (lhs), % of normal (rhs)

Note: Vessel count as a % of normal is based on an average of S&P and Kpler 
data on the daily # of oil tankers crossing the Strait of Hormuz relative to the Jan 
1-Feb 14 average for S&P and Feb 28 for Kpler. Flows are estimated by applying 
this proportion to assumed normal flows of 20mb/d (average over last ~8 years).   
Source: S&P Global Commodities at Sea, Kpler, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Note: Normal flows are assumed to be 20mb/d for the Strait of Hormuz and 2025 
average for Yanbu (1.4mb/d)+Fujairah (1.7mb/d).   
Source: S&P Global Commodities at Sea, Kpler, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
Gas and refined product tankers have also largely stopped 
transiting the Strait of Hormuz amid the conflict... 
Number transiting the Strait of Hormuz

Source: Clarksons Research, Goldman Sachs GIR.

...and shipments of chemical products from the Middle East, where 
sizable amounts of such products are produced, have been 
disrupted according to major trade publications 
Regional exports by chemical chain as a share of global exports

Source: ICIS, Argus, IFA, COMTrade, CMA, S&P Global, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
The conflict initially resulted in a significant reduction in flights to 
and from the Gulf, though some of that has now recovered 
Flights in key gulf hubs, 7dma and daily, % yoy

Source: OAG, Flight Aware, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Global air cargo volumes, which Middle East airlines account for 
13% of, have also fallen amid the conflict 
Global top-20 forwarders’ chargeable air cargo weight by origin, 
14dma, % yoy

Source: World ACD, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
Feb 28
Mar 01
Mar 02
Mar 03
Mar 04
Mar 05
Mar 06
Mar 07
Mar 08
Mar 09
Mar 10
Mar 11
Mar 12
Mar 13
Mar 14
Mar 15
Mar 16
Mar 17
Mar 18
Flows (lhs) % of normal (rhs)
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
80
90
100
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
20
Feb 28
Mar 01
Mar 02
Mar 03
Mar 04
Mar 05
Mar 06
Mar 07
Mar 08
Mar 09
Mar 10
Mar 11
Mar 12
Mar 13
Mar 14
Mar 15
Mar 16
Mar 17
Mar 18
Yanbu + Fujairah
Strait of Hormuz
Total, 4-day moving average
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
Jan-04
Jan-11
Jan-18
Jan-25
Feb-01
Feb-08
Feb-15
Feb-22
Mar-01
Mar-08
Mar-15
LNG carriers Products tankers
Chemical product Iran UAE/Kuwait/Qatar Eastern Saudi Arabia
Ammonia ~5% of global exports ~4% of global exports >10% of global exports
Urea >5% of global exports >10% of global exports >5% of global exports
Phosphate N/A N/A >10% of global exports
Sulfur <5% of global exports >20% of global exports >10% of global exports
Polyethylene >5% of global exports >5% of global exports >5% of global exports
MDI Small N/A >10% of global exports
Caustic Small <5% of global exports Small
PVC N/A N/A N/A
MTBE <5% of global exports <5% of global exports >15% of global exports
TiO2 N/A N/A N/A
Methanol >15% of global exports Small >15% of global exports
-100%
-80%
-60%
-40%
-20%
0%
20%
Jan-10
Jan-13
Jan-16
Jan-19
Jan-22
Jan-25
Jan-28
Jan-31
Feb-03
Feb-06
Feb-09
Feb-12
Feb-15
Feb-18
Feb-21
Feb-24
Feb-27
Mar-02
Mar-05
Mar-08
Mar-11
Mar-14
Mar-17
Dubai (7dma)
Doha (7dma)
Abu Dhabi (7dma)
Gulf hubs (7dma)
Gulf hubs (daily)
-30%
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
Mar-24
Apr-24
May-24
Jun-24
Jul-24
Aug-24
Sep-24
Oct-24
Nov-24
Dec-24
Jan-25
Feb-25
Mar-25
Apr-25
May-25
Jun-25
Jul-25
Aug-25
Sep-25
Oct-25
Nov-25
Dec-25
Jan-26
Feb-26
Mar-26
APAC
Europe
Middle East & S. Asia
North America
Worldwide
Disruptions caused by the Iran conflict...


===== Page 42 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 15 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Oil prices have significantly increased, now exceeding $100/bbl, 
though they remain below the highs of the energy crisis 
Brent crude oil prices, $/bbl

US gasoline prices have also risen, from around $3/gallon before 
the conflict began to nearly $4/gallon currently  
US all grades all formulations retail gasoline prices, $/gallon

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Source: EIA, Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs GIR.    
European natural gas prices have nearly doubled since the 
conflict began, while US prices have risen only ~11%  
Henry Hub prices, $/MMBtu (lhs), TTF prices, €/MWh (rhs) 
Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Fertilizer product prices have increased 
Spot prices of fertilizer products (key benchmarks for each)

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
Air cargo rates have risen for cargo from Asia and Europe 
Top-20 forwarders’ air cargo yields by origin, 14dma, % yoy

Source: World ACD, Goldman Sachs GIR.

In container shipping, future freight rates have increased as carriers 
have implemented fuel and emergency surcharges  
Future SCFI-S (Shanghai Containerized Freight Index based on 
Settled Rates) Europe (futures contracts) (index, base=1,000 
points as of 6/1/2020)

Source: Clarksons Research, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.     
Special thanks to GS Commodities Research team (Alexandra Paulus), US Chemical Equity Research team (Duffy Fischer and Jordan Lee), and 
European Transportation Equity Research team (Patrick Creuset and Nathan Arnaud) for data. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
160
1990
1992
1994
1996
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
2016
2018
2020
2022
2024
2026
0
1
2
3
4
5
6
1993
1995
1997
1999
2001
2003
2005
2007
2009
2011
2013
2015
2017
2019
2021
2023
2025
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18
1990
1992
1994
1996
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
2016
2018
2020
2022
2024
2026
Henry Hub (US) (lhs) TTF (Europe) (rhs)
0
200
400
600
800
1000
1200
1400
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Nitrogen: US Gulf NOLA Urea ($/st)
Nitrogen: Middle East Urea Granular ($/mt)
Phosphate: US Gulf NOLA DAP ($/st)
Phosphate: Brazil MAP CFR ($/mt)
-30%
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
Mar-24
Apr-24
May-24
Jun-24
Jul-24
Aug-24
Sep-24
Oct-24
Nov-24
Dec-24
Jan-25
Feb-25
Mar-25
Apr-25
May-25
Jun-25
Jul-25
Aug-25
Sep-25
Oct-25
Nov-25
Dec-25
Jan-26
Feb-26
Mar-26
APAC
Europe
Middle East & S. Asia
North America
Worldwide
1,000
1,200
1,400
1,600
1,800
2,000
2,200
2,400
2,600
05-2025
06-2025
07-2025
08-2025
09-2025
10-2025
11-2025
12-2025
01-2026
02-2026
03-2026
April-26 Future SCFI-S Europe
June-26 Future SCFI-S Europe
SCFI-S Europe (spot)
...have led to increased prices


===== Page 43 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 16 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Joseph Briggs assesses the global economic 
impacts from the ongoing Iran conflict 
As the Iran conflict ends its third week, we continue to think 
that the biggest economic impacts will come through higher 
energy prices, which will slow growth and boost inflation in 
most countries, with the risks skewed toward more growth 
downside and inflation upside. But we see limited risk that the 
large second-round inflation effects that were a prominent 
feature of the 2021-2022 pandemic shock will re-emerge, as—
unlike in 2021-2022—the major risk to global supply and 
inflation today is mostly confined to energy.      
Economic impacts: rules of thumb 
To gauge the economic impacts of the conflict, we rely on rules 
-of-thumb estimates of how higher oil prices affect GDP and 
consumer prices. On the growth front, our rules-of-thumb imply 
that each 10% increase in oil prices lowers global GDP by a bit 
more than 0.1%, reflecting real income and spending drags that 
are only partially offset by boosts to income and spending in oil 
exporters such as Canada and some LatAm economies. 
On the inflation front, our rules-of-thumb imply that each 10% 
rise in oil prices raises global headline inflation by 0.2pp, with 
larger impacts in Asia ex-China and Europe, owing to increases 
in energy costs and indirect effects on downstream production. 
The core inflation impacts are smaller, ranging from 3-6bp for 
each 10% increase in oil prices depending on the country. 
Each 10% increase in oil prices lowers global GDP by 0.1%...         
GS rules of thumb effect of a sustained 10% rise in oil prices on real GDP, %

… and boosts global headline CPI by 0.2%                                                                
GS rules of thumb effect of a sustained 10% rise in oil prices on headline CPI, %

Source: Goldman Sachs GIR.  
As such, a sustained rise in oil prices will likely have a sizable 
impact on the global economy. To level set, prior to the conflict, 
we expected global GDP growth of 2.9% this year on an annual 
average basis and headline inflation of 2.3% on a Q4/Q4 basis. 
Our rules of thumb imply that the current three-week disruption 
will result in a 0.3% drag to global GDP and 0.5-0.6% boost to 
global prices. In a 30-day disruption scenario, we estimate a 
0.5% headwind to global GDP and 0.9% boost to global prices. 
And in a 60-day disruption scenario, we estimate a 0.9% 
headwind to global GDP and 1.7% boost to global prices. And 
the longer the Strait of Hormuz disruptions extend, the greater 
the hit to growth and boost to inflation.  
Even on top of these direct macro implications of higher oil 
prices, we see macro risks further skewed toward growth 
downside and inflation upside for two reasons. First, the 
disruption of Qatari gas supplies, which account for around 
20% of global LNG supply, poses additional challenges for Asia 
and Europe, especially after the recent attacks on energy 
infrastructure. While the US remains relatively insulated owing 
to its status as the world’s largest natural gas producer, Asia 
and Europe’s heavy reliance on LNG leaves prices and industrial 
production more exposed. Second, the recent tightening in 
financial conditions—our global FCI has tightened by 51 bp since 
the conflict began—could slow growth further if sustained.  
Not your brother’s supply disruption 
The recent selloff in front-end rates signals an expectation that 
global central banks will be especially sensitive to higher 
inflation given the memory of post-pandemic supply disruptions 
and associated inflation surge. While the size of this energy 
shock will likely prompt some caution among policymakers on 
rate cuts, a key difference from 2021-2022 is that today’s 
supply shock appears concentrated in the energy sector, 
whereas the energy price increases of 2022 were only one 
aspect of a much broader global supply chain crisis and inflation 
surge. We see three reasons why the impacts on non-energy 
supply will likely be less severe this time around. 
First, non-energy trade with Gulf economies accounts for only 
1% of global trade, with major DMs and EMs even less 
exposed. By contrast, the 2021-2022 China and East Asia trade 
disruptions affected 20% of global trade. 
Second, while Gulf exporters account for a large share of global 
production for certain chemical and metal products—including 
helium, sulfur, methanol, polyethylene, aluminum, and 
fertilizers—Gulf production of these products accounts for less 
than 0.02% of global GDP. By contrast, disruptions to 
semiconductor production in 2022 affected trade worth ~1% of 
global GDP. Even more importantly, these product disruptions 
are unlikely to create shortages in critical, non-substitutable 
inputs that would lead to broader production shutdowns.  
Third, the problematic shipping disruptions of 2021-2022 appear 
less likely to repeat. Gulf economies are not major re-exporters 
of most products (aside from boats), non-tanker ocean shipping 
costs have ticked down since the conflict began, and the recent 
rise in airfreight prices, while notable, implies only a modest 
uplift to global inflation (<5bp). Taken together, this limits the 
risk that the large second-round inflation effects observed in 
2021-2022 will re-emerge.  
Joseph Briggs, Senior Global Economist 
Email: joseph.briggs@gs.com Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Tel:  212-902-2163 
-0.4
-0.3
-0.2
-0.1
0
0.1
0.2
Canada
LatAm
China
Japan
US
Australia and NZ
Euro area
UK
EM Asia ex-Mainland
China and India
India
Central and Eastern
Europe
Global
0
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
Central and Eastern
Europe
EM Asia ex-Mainland
China and India
Euro area
UK
Canada
Japan
US
Australia and NZ
India
LatAm
China
Global
Iran conflict: growing economic impacts


===== Page 44 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 17 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Kamakshya Trivedi argues that growth 
downside could be the next shoe to drop in 
markets if the war extends and escalates 
The Iran war and resulting spike in energy prices have 
reverberated sharply across global markets. Two particular 
features of the price action stand out. First, apart from 
positioning unwinds, global markets have priced this as an 
inflationary shock across DM and EM economies, with hawkish 
policy implications that have pushed rates higher and to a more 
limited extent, equity prices lower. Second, energy price 
shocks produce winners and losers, and the relative 
performance of assets, including FX and regional equities, have 
reflected those terms-of-trade (ToT) differences. Markets have 
been slower to focus on the growth implications of the energy 
shock, suggesting that growth downside could be the next 
shoe to drop.  
Interest rates: inflation fears drive a hawkish repricing  
The ~50% increase in oil prices as a result of the effective 
shutdown of energy transit through the Strait of Hormuz was 
quickly reflected in inflation fears and interest rate pricing. That 
shift is understandable, and generally in line with the direction 
of revisions in our economic forecasts toward higher headline 
inflation, smaller increases in core inflation, and later interest 
rate cuts across the US, UK, and some EMs.  
That said, the initial reactions across interest rates markets 
were even more acute, probably reflecting a couple of factors. 
First, coming into this shock, we and most investors expected 
a relatively benign inflation outlook for this year (vs. 2025) given 
soft wage inflation and structural considerations such as 
China’s export disinflation and potential AI impacts. So, market 
participants were likely wrong-footed going into this shock. 
Indeed, the largest reactions occurred in markets that were 
priced for the most rate cuts, including UK front-ends in G10 
and Hungary in EM. Second, the trauma of the 2022 inflation 
shock, during which interest rates rose much more than initially 
anticipated, is still fresh in market participants’ minds. While it’s 
certainly possible that the current energy shock can worsen, 
the sharp post-Covid economic uncoiling amid large fiscal 
support as well as the supply chain bottlenecks that led to 
higher and more sustained inflation in 2022 are absent today 
(see pg. 16).  
Front-end yields have risen sharply as inflation fears erode rate 
cut pricing across G10 and EM 
Cumulative yield change since Feb 27, bp

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.

FX and equities: an energy ToT shock 
In contrast to the broadly hawkish rates response, the FX 
response has been more differentiated. The Dollar has 
appreciated broadly, as expected during a global risk-off event 
that also fuels a sharp rise in energy prices, as the Dollar sits on 
the right side of the ToT shock. By contrast, most European 
and Asian currencies are on the wrong side of that shock, and 
as the war has progressed, global FX pairs have increasingly 
reflected those differences. Within G10, the currencies of 
energy exporters like Norway and Canada have outperformed. 
Likewise, within EM, the currencies of energy producers 
Malaysia and Brazil have outperformed, and the Colombian 
Peso has appreciated in nominal terms versus the Dollar. We 
expect the ToT shock to remain the dominant driver of FX 
markets for now and, as such, see these trends continuing over 
the near term. 
In equities, positioning unwinds dominated the initial selloffs, 
with European and Asian markets that had seen the strongest 
performance in the past year underperforming the most. But 
the price action has since become more fundamentally driven, 
with markets such as India and CEEMEA, where earnings are 
more fundamentally vulnerable, experiencing only limited 
rebounds while North Asia and China markets, where earnings 
are more resilient to the shock, have modestly recovered. 
Looking forward, we expect this type of differentiation to 
extend as long as energy prices remain elevated.  
Relative FX weakness versus the Dollar lines up along the ToT axis 
USD/XXX changes since Feb 27, 2026, %

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Growth downside: the next shoe to drop? 
While the market has been quick to reflect the inflation and ToT 
implications of the energy shock, it has been slower to 
appreciate the growth downside that could follow. That reflects 
a belief— also evidenced in the downward-sloping oil and gas 
futures curves—that the war will be relatively short -lived. If that 
confidence is misplaced and the energy price increases prove 
more durable, markets will need to price in a more significant 
hit to global growth and earnings. In that scenario, DM and EM 
equities as well as other cyclical assets such as copper and the 
Australian Dollar that have been quite resilient so far would face 
increased pressure, with some of the hawkish pressure on 
front-end yields also reversing. Such simultaneous pressure on 
equities and yields should also lead the Japanese Yen to rival 
the Dollar as the safe-haven currency of choice. 
Kamakshya Trivedi, Chief FX & EM Strategist 
Email: kamakshya.trivedi@gs.com   Goldman Sachs International 
Tel:  44-20-7051-4005 
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
70
US Germany UK EM-18
average
EM-HY EM-LY
10Y 2Y
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
HUF
ZAR
THB
CLP
PLN
PHP
KRW
SEK
CZK
MXN
CHF
NZD
EUR
BRL
PEN
TWD
JPY
INR
GBP
IDR
MYR
AUD
CAD
NOK
CNH
ILS
COP
USD/XXX latest change since Feb 27 (EM)
USD/XXX latest change since Feb 27 (G10)
USD/XXX maximum change since Feb 27
Markets: growth, the next shoe to drop?


===== Page 45 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 18 
Top of Mind Issue 147 
Farouk Soussa lays out the near-term hit, and 
possible long-term scars, to MENA economies  
The Iran war is unambiguously bad for business in the Gulf, 
resulting in sharp declines in oil and gas production and 
revenues as well as broader economic activity. Beyond the 
near-term hit, the war could also leave lasting scars on regional 
economies, though much will depend on the regional energy 
landscape and geopolitical order that emerges once the dust 
settles, which remains far from clear. 
Hits to the oil and non-oil economies 
The hits to oil and gas production are significant but uneven 
across the GCC. In a scenario in which the conflict depresses 
energy production at current levels until the end of April before 
gradually recovering to pre-war levels over a two-month period, 
we find that Kuwait and Bahrain would lose over a fifth of oil 
production this year. In Qatar, missile damage to the 77mtpa 
Ras Laffan LNG plant will shut in 17% of the country’s LNG 
production for the next 2-3 years, according to Qatar Energy 
CEO Saad Al-Kaabi. We estimate that total production there 
could be down as much as one-third this year. Saudi Arabia and 
the UAE, which both have capacity to divert flows away from 
the Strait of Hormuz, would lose around 10% and 15% of 
production, respectively. Oman, which sits outside the Strait, is 
largely unaffected from an oil production perspective.  
Beyond oil and gas, the war is significantly negatively impacting 
near-term economic activity, including tourism, aviation, 
logistics, hospitality, domestic trade, manufacturing, and 
financial services. While the final impact remains uncertain, we 
estimate that the economic hit could be as large as, if not 
larger, than that experienced during the Covid pandemic. The 
combined effect of oil and gas production losses and a broader 
decline in economic activity could see GCC economies contract 
this year by more than any other time in the past 30 years. 
GCC economies will see large hits to oil and non-oil output  
Total potential decline in 2026 real GDP, %

Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Serious financial implications 
The financial implications of the war are also serious. We 
estimate that the GCC collectively is losing roughly $700m in oil 
revenues alone each day as the conflict endures, bringing total 
losses so far to over $15bn. Two months of disruption at 
current levels and losses would approach $80bn. And losses in 
natural gas and other energy supplies will only add to these 
figures. While such a loss would be manageable for GCC 
economies given their wealth, it would necessitate even more 
borrowing than we had anticipated prior to the war, which 
could have implications for credit spreads in the medium term. 
Much, though, will depend on how oil and gas prices evolve 
after the end of hostilities. Should prices adjust slowly to their 
pre-war path, then higher earnings may compensate Gulf 
producers for the losses endured during the war. If, on the 
other hand, prices correct sharply downward, these losses will 
crystallize over the course of the year. 
More questions than answers over the longer term 
Beyond the immediate hit to energy production, revenues, and 
growth, markets are also mulling the longer-term implications 
of the war for GCC economic prospects. In particular, questions 
have arisen about potential scarring to consumer and investor 
confidence in the region; whether populations, the majority of 
which are expat workers, would recover to pre-war levels and 
over what time period; and whether plans to grow and diversify 
economies through increased investment in non-oil sectors will 
be affected, especially around AI/data centers which were one 
of the early casualties of Iran’s retaliatory attacks against its 
GCC neighbors. The answers to these questions will shape the 
longer-term implications of the war for GCC economies, though 
much will depend on the regional geopolitical order that 
emerges once the dust settles, which remains highly uncertain. 
Spillovers beyond the GCC 
The impact of the conflict extends beyond the GCC, affecting 
other countries across the MENA region. The kinetic action is 
directly impacting Iraq, Jordan, and Syria, with each 
experiencing varying levels of economic disturbance. Ongoing 
conflict between Israel and Hezbollah in Lebanon as well as 
fears of further escalation casts a dark shadow over the 
country’s economic future and the recovery prospects for 
Lebanon’s defaulted Eurobonds. Egypt, a key focus for 
international investors given the popularity of the local market 
carry trade over the past two years, is experiencing 
considerable financial contagion. A combination of heavy pre-
war positioning, generalized risk-off behavior, and overblown 
fears about the impact on the Egyptian economy have led to a 
significant portfolio retrenchment among investors, leaving the 
Egyptian Pound (EGP) as the worst performer among frontier 
FX since the start of the war. However, despite the short-term 
volatility, we remain constructive on EGP over the medium 
term as we believe that a combination of robust FX buffers and 
a (so far) refreshingly orthodox policy response will likely 
underpin investor and local confidence. 
EGP has been the worst performer among frontier currencies 
USD/XXX change since the start of the war, %

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Farouk Soussa, Senior MENA Economist 
Email: farouk.soussa@gs.com  Goldman Sachs International 
Tel:  44-20-7051-9349 
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
Oman Saudi
Arabia
UAE Bahrain Qatar Kuwait
Non-Oil Oil
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
EGP UYU ZMW GHS UAH KES AOA ARS PKR NGN CRC DOP KZT
Spot depreciation
MENA economies: big hit, possible scars


===== Page 46 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 19 
Top of Mind Issue 147

Geopolitical risk through the years 
1985-Present 
Daily Geopolitical Risk Index, 1985-2019=100

1900-Present 
Monthly Geopolitical Risk Index, 1900-2019=100

Note: Daily index as of March 18 and monthly index as of March 1. The index from 1985 on counts the number of articles in 11 US, UK, and Canadian newspapers 
mentioning phrases related to geopolitical tensions. The index from 1900 on performs the same analysis using the archives of three newspapers: the New York 
Times, the Wall Street Journal, and the Financial Times. The choice of newspapers for both indices implies a measure of geopolitical risk as covered by the Anglo-
Saxon press. See here for more information. 
Source: Dario Caldara and Matteo Iacoviello, Federal Reserve Board, Goldman Sachs GIR.

0
100
200
300
400
500
600
700
800
900
1985 1988 1991 1994 1997 2000 2003 2006 2009 2012 2015 2018 2021 2024
Gulf WarKuwait 
Invasion
TWA 
hijacking
US bombing
of Libya
Madrid
bombings
Invasion 
of Iraq
9/11
London 
bombings
Transatlantic 
aircraft plot
Paris
terror 
attacks
American 
airstrike kills
Iran's top  
general
Russia's
invasion of 
Ukraine
Hamas 
attacks on 
Israel
Twelve-
Day
War
US/Israel 
strikes on 
Iran
0
100
200
300
400
500
600
1909 1919 1929 1939 1949 1959 1969 1979 1989 1999 2009 2019
Start of 
Russo-
Japanese
War
Start of 
WWI
WWI
escalation
Italian 
invasion of 
Ethiopia
Hitler threatens
Czechoslovakia
Start of 
the first 
Balkan 
War
Start of 
WWII
Attack on 
Pearl Harbor
US nuclear 
weapons test 
(Operation 
Greenhouse)
Berlin 
Crisis of
1961
Start of 
Falklands 
War
Middle
East 
tensions 
pre-Six-
Day War
Vietnam
War: first 
battle of 
Quang Tri
Cuban 
Missile 
Crisis
Yom 
Kippur 
War
Gulf 
War
9/11
Iraq
invasion
Russia's 
invasion of 
Ukraine
Hamas 
attacks 
on Israel
Paris
terror 
attacks
D-Day
Start of 
Korean 
War 
Boxer
Rebellion
Shanghai
incident
Suez 
Crisis
Conflict in 
the Middle 
East 
escalates
US/Israel 
strikes
on Iran
Geopolitical tensions, which take many different forms, are difficult to measure. One proxy for assessing the geopolitical 
environment is the news-based Geopolitical Risk Index developed by economists from the Federal Reserve Board.


===== Page 47 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 20
Top of Mind Issue 147
Summary of our key forecasts


===== Page 48 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 21
Top of Mind Issue 147
Current Activity Indicator (CAI)
GS CAIs measure the growth signal in a broad range of weekly and monthly indicators, offering an alternative to Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). GDP is an imperfect guide to current activity: In most countries, it is only available quarterly and is
released with a substantial delay, and its initial estimates are often heavily revised. GDP also ignores important measures of real

activity, such as employment and the purchasing managers’ indexes (PMIs). All of these problems reduce the effectiveness of
GDP for investment and policy decisions. Our CAIs aim to address GDP’s shortcomings and provide a timelier read on the pace
of growth.
For more, see our CAI page and Global Economics Comment: Technical Updates to Our Global CAIs.
Dynamic Equilibrium Exchange Rates (DEER)
The GSDEER framework establishes an equilibrium (or “fair”) value of the real exchange rate based on relative productivity and

terms-of-trade differentials.
For more, see our GSDEER page, Global Economics Paper No. 227: Finding Fair Value in EM FX, 26 January 2016, and Global
Markets Analyst: A Look at Valuation Across G10 FX, 29 June 2017.
Financial Conditions Index (FCI)
GS FCIs gauge the “looseness” or “tightness” of financial conditions across the world’s major economies, incorporating
variables that directly affect spending on domestically produced goods and services. FCIs can provide valuable information

about the economic growth outlook and the direct and indirect effects of monetary policy on real economic activity.
FCIs for the G10 economies are calculated as a weighted average of a policy rate, a long-term risk-free bond yield, a corporate
credit spread, an equity price variable, and a trade-weighted exchange rate; the Euro area FCI also includes a sovereign credit
spread. The weights mirror the effects of the financial variables on real GDP growth in our models over a one-year horizon. FCIs

for emerging markets are calculated as a weighted average of a short-term interest rate, a long-term swap rate, a CDS spread,
an equity price variable, a trade-weighted exchange rate, and—in economies with large foreign- currency-denominated debt
stocks— a debt-weighted exchange rate index.
For more, see our FCI page, Global Economics Analyst: Our New G10 Financial Conditions Indices, 20 April 2017, and Global
Economics Analyst: Tracking EM Financial Conditions – Our New FCIs, 6 October 2017.

Goldman Sachs Analyst Index (GSAI)
The US GSAI is based on a monthly survey of GS equity analysts to obtain their assessments of business conditions in the
industries they follow. The results provide timely “bottom-up” information about US economic activity to supplement and cross-
check our analysis of “top-down” data. Based on analysts’ responses, we create a diffusion index for economic activity
comparable to the ISM’s indexes for activity in the manufacturing and nonmanufacturing sectors.

Macro-Data Assessment Platform (MAP)
GS MAP scores facilitate rapid interpretation of new data releases for economic indicators worldwide. MAP summarizes the
importance of a specific data release (i.e., its historical correlation with GDP) and the degree of surprise relative to the
consensus forecast. The sign on the degree of surprise characterizes underperformance with a negative number and
outperformance with a positive number. Each of these two components is ranked on a scale from 0 to 5, with the MAP score

being the product of the two, i.e., from -25 to +25. For example, a MAP score of +20 (5;+4) would indicate that the data has a
very high correlation to GDP (5) and that it came out well above consensus expectations (+4), for a total MAP value of +20.
Glossary of GS proprietary indices


===== Page 49 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 22 
Top of Mind Issue 147

a

Issue 146 
Will AI eat software? 
March 12, 2026  
Issue 131 
Is the Fed behind the curve? 
September 3, 2024

Issue 145 
Americas First 
January 26, 2026  
Issue 130 
How investable is Europe? 
August 1, 2024

Special Issue 
2025: 4 themes in charts 
December 15, 2025  
Issue 129 
Gen AI: too much spend, too little benefit? 
June 25, 2024

Issue 144 
The US-China tech race 
December 4, 2025  
Issue 128 
Central bank divergence room to run? 
May 21, 2024

Issue 143 
AI: in a bubble? 
October 22, 2025  
Issue 127 
Weighing the GLP-1 market 
April 12, 2024

Issue 142 
Data (un)reliability 
September 11, 2025  
Issue 126 
Global transit & trade: in rough waters 
March 12, 2024

Issue 141 
Stablecoin summer 
August 19, 2025  
Issue 125 
2024: The year of elections 
February 1, 2024

Issue 140 
US fiscal worries: Is this time different? 
June 12, 2025  
Issue 124 
Middle East risks 
December 5, 2023

Issue 139 
Fed independence: how concerning? 
May 15, 2025  
Issue 123 
US outperformance: at a turning point? 
October 30, 2023

Issue 138 
Tariff-induced recession risk 
April 17, 2025  
Issue 122 
Commercial real estate risks 
October 9, 2023

Issue 137 
Europe’s shifting security landscape 
March 13, 2025  
Issue 121 
Corporate credit concerns 
August 10, 2023

Issue 136 
Trump tariffs: mostly talk, or big action? 
February 26, 2025  
Issue 120 
Generative AI: hype, or truly transformative? 
July 5, 2023

Issue 135 
High bond yields: here to stay? 
February 5, 2025  
Issue 119 
Daunting debt limit dynamics 
May 22, 2023

Special Issue 
2024: 4 themes in charts 
December 18, 2024  
Issue 118 
US-China: more decoupling ahead?  
May 1, 2023

Issue 134 
Will China's policy stimulus be enough? 
December 11, 2024  
Issue 117 
All about bank(panic)s  
April 3, 2023

Issue 133 
Market concentration: how big a worry? 
November 25, 2024  
Issue 116 
(Japanese) Bonds, Bonds, Bonds 
February 23, 2023

Issue 132 
Post-election economic policies 
October 21, 2024  
Issue 115  
The Bigger Worry: Growth or Inflation? 
January 27, 2023 
Source of photos: www.gettyimages.com.
Top of Mind archive


===== Page 50 =====

Reg AC
We, Allison Nathan, Jenny Grimberg, Ashley Rhodes, Joseph Briggs, Samantha Dart, Alec Phillips, Farouk Soussa, Daan Struyven,
Kamakshya Trivedi and Alexandra Paulus, hereby certify that all of the views expressed in this report accurately reflect our personal
views, which have not been influenced by considerations of the firm's business or client relationships.
Unless otherwise stated, the individuals listed on the cover page of this report are analysts in Goldman Sachs' Global Investment

its analysts, professionals reporting to analysts and members of their households from owning securities of any company in the
analyst's area of coverage.  Analyst compensation:  Analysts are paid in part based on the profitability of Goldman Sachs, which
includes investment banking revenues.  Analyst as officer or director: Goldman Sachs policy generally prohibits its analysts,
persons reporting to analysts or members of their households from serving as an officer, director or advisor of any company in the

United States laws and regulations. Australia: Goldman Sachs Australia Pty Ltd and its affiliates are not authorised deposit-taking
institutions (as that term is defined in the Banking Act 1959 (Cth)) in Australia and do not provide banking services, nor carry on a
banking business, in Australia. This research, and any access to it, is intended only for "wholesale clients" within the meaning of the
Australian Corporations Act, unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. In producing research reports, members of Global

Investment Research of Goldman Sachs Australia may attend site visits and other meetings hosted by the companies and other
entities which are the subject of its research reports. In some instances the costs of such site visits or meetings may be met in
part or in whole by the issuers concerned if Goldman Sachs Australia considers it is appropriate and reasonable in the specific
circumstances relating to the site visit or meeting. To the extent that the contents of this document contains any financial product

advice, it is general advice only and has been prepared by Goldman Sachs without taking into account a client's objectives, financial
situation or needs. A client should, before acting on any such advice, consider the appropriateness of the advice having regard to
the client's own objectives, financial situation and needs. A copy of certain Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand disclosure
of interests and a copy of Goldman Sachs’ Australian Sell-Side Research Independence Policy Statement are available

offering or solicitation by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC for purchasers of securities in Canada to trade in any Canadian security.
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC is not registered as a dealer in any jurisdiction in Canada under applicable Canadian securities laws and
generally is not permitted to trade in Canadian securities and may be prohibited from selling certain securities and products in
certain jurisdictions in Canada. If you wish to trade in any Canadian securities or other products in Canada please contact Goldman

Sachs Canada Inc., an affiliate of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., or another registered Canadian dealer.  Hong Kong: Further
information on the securities of covered companies referred to in this research may be obtained on request from Goldman Sachs
(Asia) L.L.C.  India: Further information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research may be obtained from


===== Page 51 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 24
Top of Mind Issue 147
Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited, Research Analyst - SEBI Registration Number INH000001493, 10th Floor, Ascent-
Worli, Sudam Kalu Ahire Marg, Worli, Mumbai-400 025, India, Corporate Identity Number U74140MH2006FTC160634, Phone +91
22 6616 9000, Fax +91 22 6616 9001. Goldman Sachs may beneficially own 1% or more of the securities (as such term is defined
in clause 2 (h) the Indian Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956) of the subject company or companies referred to in this

research report. Investment in securities market are subject to market risks. Read all the related documents carefully before
investing. Registration granted by SEBI and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or
provide any assurance of returns to investors. Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited compliance officer and investor
grievance contact details can be found at: https://www.goldmansachs.com/worldwide/india/documents/Grievance-Redressal-and-

Escalation-Matrix.pdf, and a copy of the annual audit compliance report can be found at this
link: https://publishing.gs.com/content/site/india-annual-compliance-report.html.  Japan: See below.  Korea: This research, and any
access to it, is intended only for "professional investors" within the meaning of the Financial Services and Capital Markets Act,
unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. Further information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research

may be obtained from Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch.  New Zealand: Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited and its
affiliates are neither "registered banks" nor "deposit takers" (as defined in the Reserve Bank of New Zealand Act 1989) in New
Zealand. This research, and any access to it, is intended for "wholesale clients" (as defined in the Financial Advisers Act 2008)
unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. A copy of certain Goldman Sachs Australia and New Zealand disclosure of interests is

the Russian Federation are not advertising as defined in the Russian legislation, but are information and analysis not having product
promotion as their main purpose and do not provide appraisal within the meaning of the Russian legislation on appraisal activity.
Research reports do not constitute a personalized investment recommendation as defined in Russian laws and regulations, are not
addressed to a specific client, and are prepared without analyzing the financial circumstances, investment profiles or risk profiles of

clients. Goldman Sachs assumes no responsibility for any investment decisions that may be taken by a client or any other person
based on this research report.  Singapore: Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W), which is regulated
by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, accepts legal responsibility for this research, and should be contacted with respect to any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this research.  Taiwan: This material is for reference only and must not be reprinted

without permission. Investors should carefully consider their own investment risk. Investment results are the responsibility of the
individual investor.  United Kingdom: Persons who would be categorized as retail clients in the United Kingdom, as such term is
defined in the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, should read this research in conjunction with prior Goldman Sachs research
on the covered companies referred to herein and should refer to the risk warnings that have been sent to them by Goldman Sachs

International. A copy of these risks warnings, and a glossary of certain financial terms used in this report, are available from
Goldman Sachs International on request.
European Union and United Kingdom: Disclosure information in relation to Article 6 (2) of the European Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) (2016/958) supplementing Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (including
as that Delegated Regulation is implemented into United Kingdom domestic law and regulation following the United Kingdom’s

Finance Company.
Global product; distributing entities
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research produces and distributes research products for clients of Goldman Sachs on a global
basis. Analysts based in Goldman Sachs offices around the world produce research on industries and companies, and research on
macroeconomics, currencies, commodities and portfolio strategy. This research is disseminated in Australia by Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty Ltd (ABN 21 006 797 897); in Brazil by Goldman Sachs do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A.; Public

Communication Channel Goldman Sachs Brazil: 0800 727 5764 and / or contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Available Weekdays
(except holidays), from 9am to 6pm. Canal de Comunicação com o Público Goldman Sachs Brasil: 0800 727 5764 e/ou
contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Horário de funcionamento: segunda-feira à sexta-feira (exceto feriados), das 9h às 18h; in Canada
by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC; in Hong Kong by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.; in India by Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private

Ltd.; in Japan by Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.; in the Republic of Korea by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch; in New
Zealand by Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited; in Russia by OOO Goldman Sachs; in Singapore by Goldman Sachs (Singapore)
Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W); and in the United States of America by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. Goldman Sachs
International has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.


===== Page 52 =====

Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and the PRA, has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.
European Economic Area: Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) is a credit institution incorporated in Germany and, within
the Single Supervisory Mechanism, subject to direct prudential supervision by the European Central Bank and in other respects
supervised by German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin) and

information that we consider reliable, but we do not represent it is accurate or complete, and it should not be relied on as such.
The information, opinions, estimates and forecasts contained herein are as of the date hereof and are subject to change without
prior notification. We seek to update our research as appropriate, but various regulations may prevent us from doing so. Other than
certain industry reports published on a periodic basis, the large majority of reports are published at irregular intervals as appropriate

Our salespeople, traders, and other professionals may provide oral or written market commentary or trading strategies to our
clients and principal trading desks that reflect opinions that are contrary to the opinions expressed in this research. Our asset
management area, principal trading desks and investing businesses may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the
recommendations or views expressed in this research.
We and our affiliates, officers, directors, and employees will from time to time have long or short positions in, act as principal in,

and buy or sell, the securities or derivatives, if any, referred to in this research, unless otherwise prohibited by regulation or
Goldman Sachs policy.
The views attributed to third party presenters at Goldman Sachs arranged conferences, including individuals from other parts of
Goldman Sachs, do not necessarily reflect those of Global Investment Research and are not an official view of Goldman Sachs.
Any third party referenced herein, including any salespeople, traders and other professionals or members of their household, may

have positions in the products mentioned that are inconsistent with the views expressed by analysts named in this report.
This research is focused on investment themes across markets, industries and sectors. It does not attempt to distinguish between
the prospects or performance of, or provide analysis of, individual companies within any industry or sector we describe.
Any trading recommendation in this research relating to an equity or credit security or securities within an industry or sector is

reflective of the investment theme being discussed and is not a recommendation of any such security in isolation.
This research is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction where such an offer or
solicitation would be illegal. It does not constitute a personal recommendation or take into account the particular investment
objectives, financial situations, or needs of individual clients. Clients should consider whether any advice or recommendation in this

future performance, future returns are not guaranteed, and a loss of original capital may occur. Fluctuations in exchange rates could
have adverse effects on the value or price of, or income derived from, certain investments.
Certain transactions, including those involving futures, options, and other derivatives, give rise to substantial risk and are not
suitable for all investors. Investors should review current options and futures disclosure documents which are available from

strategies calling for multiple purchase and sales of options such as spreads. Supporting documentation will be supplied upon
request.
Differing Levels of Service provided by Global Investment Research: The level and types of services provided to you by
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research may vary as compared to that provided to internal and other external clients of GS,
depending on various factors including your individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communication,

your risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g., marketwide, sector specific, long term, short term), the size and scope
of your overall client relationship with GS, and legal and regulatory constraints. As an example, certain clients may request to
receive notifications when research on specific securities is published, and certain clients may request that specific data underlying
analysts’ fundamental analysis available on our internal client websites be delivered to them electronically through data feeds or

otherwise. No change to an analyst’s fundamental research views (e.g., ratings, price targets, or material changes to earnings
estimates for equity securities), will be communicated to any client prior to inclusion of such information in a research report


===== Page 53 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 26
Top of Mind Issue 147
broadly disseminated through electronic publication to our internal client websites or through other means, as necessary, to all
clients who are entitled to receive such reports.
All research reports are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client
websites. Not all research content is redistributed to our clients or available to third-party aggregators, nor is Goldman Sachs

responsible for the redistribution of our research by third party aggregators. For research, models or other data related to one or
more securities, markets or asset classes (including related services) that may be available to you, please contact your GS
representative or go to https://research.gs.com.
Disclosure information is also available at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html or from Research Compliance, 200 West
Street, New York, NY 10282.

© 2026 Goldman Sachs.
You are permitted to store, display, analyze, modify, reformat, and print the information made available to you via this service only
for your own use. You may not resell or reverse engineer this information to calculate or develop any index for disclosure and/or
marketing or create any other derivative works or commercial product(s), data or offering(s) without the express written consent of
Goldman Sachs. You are not permitted to publish, transmit, or otherwise reproduce this information, in whole or in part, in any

format to any third party without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs. This foregoing restriction includes, without
limitation, using, extracting, downloading or retrieving this information, in whole or in part, to train or finetune a machine learning or
artificial intelligence system, or to provide or reproduce this information, in whole or in part, as a prompt or input to any such
system.


===== Page 54 =====




===== Page 55 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 2 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Macro news and views

US Japan 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• No major changes in views. 
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• Oil disruptions related to the US-Iran conflict, which pose 
downside risks to growth and upside risks to inflation, 
depending on the longevity and severity of the conflict.  
• Tariffs; we expect the global tariff that has replaced the 
IEEPA tariffs to lower the increase in the effective tariff rate 
since the start of 2025 to 9pp from 10pp. 
• Labor market; the Feb jobs report suggests a higher risk 
that labor demand remains too weak to support the labor 
market stabilization we had seen in previous months. 
• Concerns about nonbank lending, which have risen. 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We recently raised our FY26 average core CPI inflation 
forecast to 2.1% (from 1.6%) to reflect our higher energy 
price and USD/JPY forecasts. 
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• LDP’s landslide victory in Japan’s Lower House elections, 
which we think will make it easier for the Takaichi 
Administration to implement its proactive fiscal agenda, 
posing increased risk to Japan’s fiscal position. 
• BoJ policy; we continue to expect the next BoJ rate hike in 
July, and think two recent board member nominations have 
lowered the probability of an earlier rate hike. 
• Shunto negotiations; we expect a base pay rise of 3.2-3.5%. 
Strait of Hormuz oil transport grinds to a near halt  
Oil exports via the Strait of Hormuz, mb/d (lhs), % of normal (rhs) 
Rising Japanese inflation  
Core CPI inflation rate by scenario, % chg., yoy

Source: Kpler, Goldman Sachs GIR. Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Europe  Emerging Markets (EM) 
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We lowered our 2026 EA growth forecast and raised our 
2026 EA headline inflation forecast to reflect higher energy 
prices amid the US-Iran conflict, with growth risks skewed 
further to the downside and inflation risks to the upside. 
• We lowered our 2026 UK growth forecast to 1.0% yoy (from 
1.1%) and raised our headline inflation forecast to 2.4% yoy 
(from 2.3%) to reflect higher energy prices; as such, we 
now expect the next BoE cut in April (vs. March before). 
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on 
• European structural reforms; recent political momentum 
behind further reform steps to counter Europe’s waning 
international competitiveness is promising, in our view.  
Latest GS proprietary datapoints/major changes in views 
• We lowered our 2026 GDP growth forecasts for Saudi Arabia, 
Oman, Qatar, Bahrain, Kuwait, and UAE to reflect Strait of 
Hormuz disruptions and a fall in non-oil economic activity 
amid the US-Iran conflict, with risks skewed to the downside.  
Datapoints/trends we’re focused on  
• US-Iran conflict impacts beyond the ME; we find that a 
10% rise in oil prices would be especially negative for 
Türkiye and oil importers across Asia, while oil exporters 
Brazil and Russia are likely to be the biggest beneficiaries. 
• China growth; we expect real GDP growth to fall to 4.8% 
yoy this year (from 5% in 2025), in line with the recently-
announced official growth target of 4.5-5% this year.  
Europe: still losing competitiveness  
Real exchange rate with China (lhs, index, 2019=100) vs. survey- 
Higher oil prices: negative for most EMs 
Real GDP sensitivity to a 10% rise in oil prices, pp  
based assessment of int’l competitiveness (rhs, z-score)

Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs GIR. Source: Goldman Sachs GIR. 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
0
5
10
15
20
25
01/2026 01/2026 01/2026 02/2026 02/2026 03/2026
Estimates from satellite data, 3dma
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
4.0
4.5
07/2022 07/2023 07/2024 07/2025 07/2026 07/2027
GS base case scenario
Strait of Hormuz disruption for 5 weeks GS forecasts
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
2004 2006 2008 2010 2012 2014 2016 2018 2020 2022 2024
Real exchange rate with China (lhs)
Survey-based assessment of international competitiveness (rhs)
-1.0
-0.5
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
Asia
CEEMEA
LatAm
We provide a brief snapshot on the most important economies for the global markets


===== Page 56 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 3 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
For over a decade, software has come to “eat” the world, 
dominating an ever-wider range of industries. But the 
emergence of new agentic AI tools for software development in 
recent months (see pg. 11) has fueled concerns that AI could in 
turn “eat” software, triggering a sharp re-rating of the software 
sector (see pg. 9) as well as other sectors vulnerable to 
disruption from these increasingly powerful and accessible AI 
tools. So are these fears about the future of software (and other 
industries) warranted, or overdone? 
We ask three long-time software industry watchers: Gabriela 
Borges, GS US Software analyst, Rick Sherlund, Founder and 
CEO of Sherlund Partners, and Sanjay Poonen, CEO and 
President of data security and management firm Cohesity.  
Borges explains that “AI is software” because it is code 
designed to perform tasks. So, rather than eat software, she 
expects AI to expand the software market. But she also 
expects competition to intensify as AI lowers the cost of code. 
The main risk for legacy software firms, she says, is that AI-
native entrants capture the new AI opportunity while the 
incumbents are left with the old opportunity—namely, being the 
“system of record”—that shrinks as a share of the software 
stack. But Borges notes that legacy firms aren’t standing still 
but rather “innovating as fast followers.” This, together with 
moats such as domain experience that new entrants can’t 
quickly replicate, could ultimately lead incumbents to deliver 
better outcomes for customers, in her view. But she stresses 
that they must prove they can leverage their moats to do so, 
which hasn’t happened yet.    
Sherlund shares Borges’ conviction that AI won’t eat software, 
viewing the current moment akin to past transformational 
technology shifts that were highly disruptive but ultimately 
propelled the software industry onto a new growth curve. In his 
view, software “is being reborn around AI”, necessitating a 
fundamental re-architecture of legacy systems around large 
language models (LLMs) and AI agents. While Sherlund 
acknowledges that incumbent moats can slow disruption, he is 
skeptical of their long-term durability, arguing that they will buy 
legacy software firms time rather than guarantee their survival.  
And Poonen, for his part, agrees that new AI tools for software 
development mark a transformative moment for the industry, 
warning that “just like any technology wave, you must surf this 
tsunami, or it will demolish you.” In his view, how legacy 
software firms fare in the AI era will depend crucially on 
whether they can sustain their current price per user. Firms 
unable to defend pricing in their core offerings will need to 
expand and improve their products. But, like Sherlund, Poonen 
is explicit that just bolting AI agents onto legacy systems may 
not be sufficient— incumbents must ultimately be willing to 
rebuild, in some cases from scratch, to remain competitive.  
So, with this uncertainty, what will it take to stabilize the sector 
and the firms most exposed to it? Ben Snider, GS Chief US 
Equity Strategist, argues that stabilization is unlikely to occur 
anytime soon, with history suggesting that share prices in 
industries facing structural disruption (e.g. newspapers) and an 
associated deep rethink of firms’ terminal value tend to stabilize 
only when earnings stabilize, underscoring Borges’ point that 
“the numbers need to contradict the narrative.”  
Shamshad Ali, GS senior credit strategist, also expects pressure 
to persist in the broadly syndicated loan (BSL) market—which 
software comprises a meaningful share of— as impairment in 
software-exposed loans will likely be difficult to avoid. But he 
doesn’t see this as sufficient to catalyze a turn in the credit 
default cycle, assuming the benign macro backdrop and lower 
funding cost environment continue.           
GS US Financials analysts Alexander Blostein and Michael Vinci 
are somewhat more positive on alternative asset managers, 
who have been hit hard given the meaningful software 
exposure in their private equity and direct lending portfolios. 
Blostein and Vinci argue that despite this exposure, firmwide 
risk remains manageable as software lending represents a 
relatively small share of management fees, software loans are 
largely senior secured and short duration, and managers have 
been highly selective in their software investments. But they 
caution that sentiment and headline risk will likely persist, with 
slower retail fundraising and accelerating redemption requests 
potentially weighing on growth despite the durability of 
underlying earnings streams.    
So, how should investors be positioned? Sherlund and Borges 
agree: this is not an environment for binary bets on software’s 
survival or collapse, but one that demands selectivity. Sherlund 
argues that “investors must carefully assess which companies 
are most exposed to disruption and which possess complex 
workflows that are more difficult to encroach upon” and views 
the most promising companies as “those doing the heavy lifting 
to re-architect to put LLMs at their core and build robust agentic 
frameworks.” Borges, for her part, is focused on fast followers 
and firms with defensible moats, seeing select opportunities in 
applications, infrastructure, and cybersecurity. And GS US 
Software analysts Adam Hotchkiss and Matthew Martino see 
value in Vertical Software, Data Infrastructure, and Physical-to-
Digital firms.   
GS Head of Asset Allocation Research Christian Mueller-
Glissmann then digs into how to manage AI risk in portfolios 
more broadly given the outsized role the technology sector 
plays in driving US equity valuations and returns. To achieve 
more balance between innovation and inflation risks, he 
believes investors may need to continue rotating from capital-
light sectors, like technology, to capital-heavy sectors that AI is 
less likely to disrupt (think telecoms, industrials, and utilities), 
though he favors being more selective given the aggressive 
rotations that have already occurred.   
Finally, with the “AI scare trade” having moved beyond just 
software to many other sectors—from consumer internet and 
information services to insurance, CRE services, financials, and 
transportation—GS equity analysts assess how new AI tools 
could impact these industries (see pgs. 21-23). Their key 
message: while AI could disrupt some firms, many may also 
benefit, reinforcing the idea that investors should be selective 
as AI technology continues to evolve.       
Allison Nathan, Editor  
Email: allison.nathan@gs.com     
Tel: 212-357-7504   
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC

Will AI eat software?


===== Page 57 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 4 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Gabriela Borges is Senior Equity Research Analyst at Goldman Sachs covering US Software. 
Below, she argues that AI won’t eat software and some of the recent price action has gone 
too far, but legacy software firms will need to prove themselves through better fundamentals.

Jenny Grimberg: How does the 
current software correction 
compare to past corrections? 
Gabriela Borges: The YTD correction 
is squarely anchored to terminal value 
debates: instead of analyzing a change 
in the near-term demand trendline or 
the mathematical impact of higher 
interest rates— as was the case in the 
2022 correction—the market is 
questioning software moats and business models. While this 
debate is centered primarily on the application software firms, 
investors are also questioning whether the infrastructure 
/security stack could be impacted, and the ROI tied to 
hyperscaler capex. This is sparking a return to first principles 
questions about the value the industry provides and the nature 
of competition. And this is all happening against a backdrop of 
elevated uncertainty given the rapidly changing technology. So, 
the end state is difficult, if not impossible, to predict. 
Jenny Grimberg: Generative AI technology has been 
around for several years. So, what’s changed recently? 
Gabriela Borges: The technology is now beginning to impact 
enterprises. Most AI chatbot applications that have emerged 
since ChatGPT’s debut have primarily impacted the consumer-
facing world. Concerns about how data is maintained, cleaned, 
and validated have been a huge limiting factor for enterprise AI 
adoption, and regulatory, compliance, and security frameworks 
are in the process of adapting to make enterprises comfortable 
adopting these mission-critical yet invasive technologies. At the 
same time that progress has been made on these fronts, tools 
more relevant for enterprise use cases have emerged.  
For example, Anthropic’s recently-released Claude Cowork 
product makes its Claude Code product accessible to all 
knowledge workers, not just coders. And its new large 
language model (LLM) Claude Opus 4.6 has several domain-
specific applications, including in cybersecurity, legal, and 
financial services. OpenAI debuted Frontier, an enterprise 
platform for building, deploying, and managing AI agents and is 
strategically leaning into enterprise monetization. And personal 
AI assistant OpenClaw launched with capabilities much more 
powerful than a typical AI chatbot’s; usage today is primarily 
limited to technically-savvy consumers, but this may expand as 
security and usability challenges are solved. So, AI use cases 
and the power to execute them has progressed, leading the 
technology to intersect more with the traditional software 
world and creating a competitive bake-off dynamic between 
new entrants and today’s software leaders at enterprises now 
better equipped to utilize the technology.   
Jenny Grimberg: So, what’s your response to those who 
argue that AI will “eat” software? 
Gabriela Borges: The key question is, what do you have to 
believe to be bullish on software? You have to believe that the 
total addressable market (TAM) will grow more than enough to 
offset the rise in competition. We feel comfortable that the 
TAM will grow because, despite the current nomenclature, AI 
is software— it is code designed to perform a set of tasks, 
which is in many ways simply an extension of the software 
category. But the competition part of the question is currently 
the bigger unknown as the rapid pace of technological change 
is attracting new entrants and a wave of VC money. At the 
same time, the cost of code is falling, which also catalyzes 
more competition. In our view, the biggest risk for today’s 
software leaders is that the new opportunity AI creates accrues 
to these new competitors, and the incumbents are left with 
outsized exposure to the old opportunity that compresses as a 
percentage of the total software stack.  
One way to illustrate this is with the concept of a “system of 
record.” Many of today’s application software leaders are 
systems of record. These systems, such as Enterprise 
Resource Planning, Customer Relationship Management, and 
Human Resources, are the digital backbone of the business, 
storing the foundational data upon which it operates. AI may 
find it hard to disrupt these for two reasons. First, the data and 
historical context sitting in the system of record cannot be 
extracted holistically and in a way that captures ongoing data 
updates owing to nuances with meta context and data labeling 
as well as with stream processing that are proprietary to the 
system of record and break when extracted, even when using 
sophisticated APIs. Second, using generative AI technology to 
replace deterministic logic is expensive and ineffective. Put 
simply, it makes more strategic and economic sense for new AI 
entrants to leverage existing systems of record for high quality 
data and context than to replace them. The question then 
becomes whether the incumbents can also capture the new 
opportunity because of this domain experience and context.  
Jenny Grimberg: So, is it possible to be bullish on agentic 
AI and not bearish on legacy software? 
Gabriela Borges: Yes, because some legacy software firms 
will likely capture the upside opportunity of AI. We expect 
some incumbents will be able to prove to customers that their 
domain experience drives better AI outcomes. It’s worth 
highlighting that incumbents are not static—many have world -
class engineering teams that benefit from the same AI 
productivity gains as start-ups, founder involvement, and strong 
cash balances to respond to new competitive threats.  
But the playbook to capture AI upside is three-fold, and 
companies must succeed on all three fronts, which won’t be 
easy but is possible. First, companies must minimize any 
technical debt in their tech stack. That means ensuring all 
acquisitions integrate nicely into the company’s core 
technology backbone and data flows across different modules 
and is centralized and uniformly cleaned. Second, companies 
must understand the holes in their roadmaps. One 
misconception is that a software leader must be a leader in 
technology. It can instead be a fast follower, letting the VC 
Interview with Gabriela Borges


===== Page 58 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 5
Top of Mind Issue 146
ecosystem fund next-gen technologies, seeing which have
durability and the best product market fit, and then acquiring
them or using internal R&D to capture that product market fit,
which is arguably a better use of capital than spending heavily
to develop every new technology in-house.
Third, companies must figure out how to monetize AI, which
may require a change in pricing model. For example, instead of

charging per customer service representative, a software
company could instead charge per successfully completed
customer service call. Another type of pricing model is
enterprise license agreements (ELAs), which allow customers
to access many different products for one price. ELAs have
existed in software for some time. Salesforce recently shifted
to agentic ELAs (AELAs), giving customers access to their AI
and other products. This is important because it shifts the

software pricing model more holistically to include agentic
value and allows customers to have fluidity between seats and
outcomes. Importantly, we don’t think customers can reduce
seat count and maintain/enhance productivity unless software
tools are picking up the slack and delivering more value.
Jenny Grimberg: What will allow the sector to stabilize?
Gabriela Borges: The numbers need to contradict the
narrative. The software sector has been in a four-year-long

depression; for 14 consecutive quarters, revenue growth has
decelerated and the cost of acquiring new customers has risen.
So, the numbers need to stabilize. It would be hard to argue
that software companies are being disintermediated if they put
up better fundamentals, because the only way they can do so
in the AI era is by having exposure to the new opportunities
and budgets that AI creates. Evidence of this would be clean
beat-and-raised quarters and improved unit economics, either

on an industry or, more likely, company-specific basis.
Jenny Grimberg: But couldn’t that just push out the bear
case for software disruption rather than prove it wrong?
Gabriela Borges: This is where moats become important. A
company must prove its fundamentals are holding up because
it has a defensible moat. One example is data architecture and
collection moats, which are a feature of some security software
companies and are outside the realm of AI’s current and likely

future capabilities. Cloudflare, for example, has a physical edge
compute network co-located in telecom data centers, meaning
that it owns physical computing infrastructure deployed close
to end-users. Palo Alto Networks and CrowdStrike directly
collect data, either through physical hardware deployed at the
network edge or, in CrowdStrike’s case, through an agent
installed on an end-user device. These are classic examples of
network effects that have compounded over 10+ years.

Another defensible moat is domain experience. Software firms
with domain experience understand how knowledge workers
like salespeople, accountants, and financial analysts work and
use their tools owing to years of being embedded in an
enterprise. That usage also allows these firms to collect
proprietary data, some of which is very nuanced and difficult to
abstract. Beneath the surface of Microsoft Copilot, for example,
is a highly nuanced graph showing how knowledge workers in

a specific enterprise collaborate, which Microsoft has the
intelligence to create because it has observed how these
workers interact with its software for many years. That is a
powerful type of domain experience. Microsoft is also vertically
integrated, operating across all three layers of software—the
platform, infrastructure, and application layers—which allows it
to observe and optimize how enterprise work gets done.
Jenny Grimberg: But couldn’t AI native companies

replicate those moats over time?
Gabriela Borges: Yes, but time matters, as does whether it
makes strategic sense to do so. If everything were frozen in
place right now and AI-native firms were given two years to
figure out how to replicate domain experience, for example,
they probably would. But, again, legacy software companies
aren’t standing still. They are innovating as fast followers. The
incumbents have access to the same AI technology as the AI

firms themselves—the LLMs, the coding productivity tools,
etc.—and so are benefitting fr om the same productivity
improvements. That, combined with their moats, could
ultimately leave incumbents in a better place from a soup-to-
nuts platform perspective. They already have the system of
record, domain experience, and user interface. Layering AI on
top of that gives incumbents everything they need to build a
successful agentic solution more powerful than any one new

competitor can offer. But ultimately, incumbents will have to
demonstrate they can leverage their moats to deliver such an
outcome, and so far, that hasn’t happened in a broad enough
way. So, the pressure is on for these companies.
Jenny Grimberg: Given everything we’ve discussed, has
the recent sharp selloff in software gone too far?
Gabriela Borges: The pace of competition and the level of
uncertainty is undoubtedly high. However, two areas of
discovery value allow us to be bullish on many software assets.

First is the dynamic we’ve discussed on incumbents being able
to leverage domain experience to drive better AI outcomes.
Second is the potential for more companies to manage to
GAAP earnings, which provide a level of valuation support for
the stocks. The level of competitive noise is likely near a local
maximum, and the perception vs. reality gap should narrow
ahead for the majority of software firms. Looking at it from that
lens, some of the recent price action has likely gone too far.


===== Page 59 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 6 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Rick Sherlund is Founder and CEO of Sherlund Partners LLC, an investment advisory firm 
focused on the rapidly evolving AI software sector and traditional enterprise SaaS space and is 
a Senior Advisor at Wedbush Securities. Below, he argues that the software industry is being 
reborn around AI, necessitating a complete re-architecture of existing software systems. 
The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.
Allison Nathan: Does the 
emergence of new agentic AI tools 
for software development mark a 
transformative moment for the 
traditional software industry? 
Rick Sherlund: Very much so. The 
software industry undergoes a major 
platform shift roughly every 10-20 
years as new technologies emerge. 
While these shifts can be highly disruptive, they also serve as 
powerful catalysts for growth, propelling the entire software 
industry onto new growth curves. We are at such a juncture 
today, with over 10,000 venture-backed AI-native companies 
poised to encroach on and disrupt the ~$400bn global Software 
as a Service (SaaS) market. 
Allison Nathan: How does this compare to past periods of 
transformation? 
Rick Sherlund: Some technology shifts, such as the move to 
mobile, allowed companies to adapt their existing architecture 
without fundamentally altering business processes. However, 
other shifts created true discontinuities that forced companies 
to completely rebuild their systems from the ground up. The 
move to relational databases in the 1980s/1990s is a prime 
example. Companies could not simply tweak their existing 
frameworks. Instead, they had to reconstruct their 
architectures entirely—a task akin to demolishing and rebuilding 
a skyscraper from its foundation. Once-dominant players that 
were unable to reinvent their platforms to compete with 
Oracle, which was a leader in promoting relational database 
architecture, were ultimately left behind. Similar upheavals 
occurred during the transitions to client-server models and later 
to cloud computing. 
The rise of AI marks a similarly transformative shift, enabling 
processes that legacy system architectures cannot readily 
accommodate. Faced with falling valuations, incumbent SaaS 
providers must overhaul their systems. Remaining competitive 
in the AI era requires software companies to do much more 
than add incremental AI capabilities to automate narrow legacy 
human tasks. While such bolt-on functions may be quicker and 
look good in the marketing literature, they are superficial and 
risk missing the more critical and transformative opportunity to 
rearchitect systems around large language model (LLM) 
intelligence with reasoning at the core to orchestrate evolving 
autonomous agents, which can power a new generation of 
business processes. This shift is not only disruptive for the 
software industry, but for businesses and sectors globally, 
representing a fundamental change in technology platforms.

Allison Nathan: What new processes will such AI-enabled 
platforms be able to achieve?  
Rick Sherlund: Traditional SaaS platforms rely on hard-coded 
workflows and human-centric, menu-driven interfaces. By 
contrast, AI-based systems feature more conversational 
interfaces, embedding LLM intelligence at their core to 
orchestrate agents capable of reasoning, decision-making, and 
executing tasks previously handled by humans. This enables 
the integration of entirely new processes. For example, legacy 
customer support consists of menu-based interactive voice 
responses (IVR) and irritating cascading menus. Users may 
frequently scream “representative” in frustration to exit the 
menu system to connect with a human to address their issue, 
but even that representative may not be able to do so. And 
customer support remains costly.  
So, companies are turning to AI-powered virtual agents that are 
available 24/7, multilingual, and trained on comprehensive 
support materials. These agents run on hyperscaler systems 
that avoid problems of availability and scalability in periods of 
peak demand. Agents may also identify that a customer has, 
say, an older version of a product that may no longer be 
supported. The agent can then pivot from a cost center support 
function to a revenue function by recommending a new 
product. So, AI agents can seamlessly shift from support to 
sales and billing, orchestrating complex, multistep workflows 
across disparate systems with minimal human intervention. 
As infrastructure improves to provide governance and 
guardrails, AI agents will increasingly handle autonomous, 
agent-to-agent processes, with humans overseeing compliance 
and exceptions. This shift will unlock even more processes and 
expand automation as systems become more intelligent and 
capable of advanced reasoning. 
Allison Nathan: So, are concerns that AI could “eat” 
software, which have sparked a major selloff in legacy 
software companies, warranted, or overblown? 
Rick Sherlund: At the end of the day, AI is expressed in 
software, so declaring software “dead” is misguided. Software 
will endure, even if the industry looks different than it does 
today. Certain segments of the software market— particularly 
applications—will experience considerable disruption, but the 
broader industry will be reincarnated, adapting to new 
processes and reaping substantial benefits from the 
widespread integration of AI capabilities across all business 
functions. This will lead to a step function increase in 
productivity that was not possible with traditional SaaS 
architectures.

Interview with Rick Sherlund


===== Page 60 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 7
Top of Mind Issue 146
Allison Nathan: Won’t the rise of “vibe coding” eventually
make software replaceable, as some argue?
Rick Sherlund: Concerns that “vibe coding” will make it so
simple to write software that software itself becomes trivial are
largely unfounded. Coding accounts for only around 15–20% of
writing enterprise systems. So, while automating code
generation is a major efficiency gain, it is just one aspect of a

far more complex process. Designing effective workflows,
defining data structures, and establishing secure access
controls are all critical and complex tasks. Developers must
decide how databases are organized, what data is stored, and
how sensitive information, like payroll data, is protected. These
challenges extend well beyond basic coding. So, easier coding
won’t sound the industry’s death knell. On the contrary, the
industry will likely become more vibrant than ever as firms

leverage the new technology to remain competitive. So, the
software market is not dead; it is being reborn around AI.
Allison Nathan: How defensible are legacy software moats
amid the AI transition?
Rick Sherlund: Complex workflows are a powerful moat,
demanding deep domain expertise to design effective
interactions with vendors and suppliers in the supply chain. This
expertise extends not only to vertical markets but also across
horizontal complexities. Data access is another powerful moat,

as software companies fiercely protect their customers’ data
and resist third-party access, recognizing its tremendous value.
Scale and distribution moats are powerful as well— building and
maintaining an enterprise sales force is extremely costly, so
established distribution networks further protect incumbents.
Together, these moats buy incumbents time to adapt, as seen
in prior software disruption cycles. For example, larger
companies with complex workflows like SAP and Oracle were

slower to adopt cloud architecture but eventually did so,
leveraging their moats to buy time. So, firms with these
protective moats, like the large SaaS incumbents, have more
time to adjust amid the AI transition. But these moats aren’t
insurmountable—AI will very likely erode them over time.
Allison Nathan: How are incumbent software companies
responding?
Rick Sherlund: Incumbent software companies are working
hard to fundamentally re-architect their systems. Large firms

like Salesforce, Workday, and ServiceNow—who were
disruptors in the shift from client-server to the cloud— are now
integrating LLMs into the core of their systems and developing
agentic frameworks to support intelligent, autonomous
workflows. Having been disruptors themselves, these vendors
recognize that major technological shifts require
comprehensive transformation, not just superficial bolt-ons.
These companies are also making significant efforts to address

broader issues such as governance, security, and the need for
advanced data structures like knowledge and context graphs.
Such measures are vital for understanding data and workflow
intent, ensuring that systems can operate autonomously while
maintaining compliance and security. While these efforts do not
guarantee that the incumbent SaaS companies will “win”
against emerging AI-native competitors, they represent
significant steps toward adapting and maintaining relevance in

an evolving market. Whether they can move fast enough and
reposition to leverage their market presence, distribution, and
scale advantages to be net beneficiaries of the AI era remains
to be seen.
Allison Nathan: By contrast, how can AI-native firms
compete and win in the space?
Rick Sherlund: Disruptors have historically succeeded by
entering at the lower end of the market, where there is less
invested in incumbent systems and companies are more open

to adopting innovative solutions. This was the case with
Salesforce and Workday, who began by serving small- and
medium-sized businesses rather than directly competing with
SAP.
Over time, as new entrants enhance their offerings and scale
their distribution, they can move gradually upmarket, competing
with larger incumbents— adopting a “land and expand”
strategy. Salesforce, for example, began with sales automation
before expanding into marketing and customer service, while

Workday started in Human Resources before adding financial
capabilities. Ultimately, the path to market disruption starts at
the bottom where the protective moats are fewer and fresh
ideas can gain traction, and scales upward.
Allison Nathan: Given all that, how do you foresee the
competitive landscape for software evolving?
Rick Sherlund: As more AI-native companies enter the lower
end of the market, the software industry will likely become
increasingly fragmented. We saw this with the move from

client-server systems to the cloud/SaaS model, where
specialized “best-of-breed” software solutions were embraced
over traditional monolithic suites from providers like SAP and
Oracle. Now, with the rise of agentic AI systems, we will likely
see a further disaggregation as agents enable a fragmentation
of functions and an unbundling of existing SaaS functions. This
is already evident in the customer support segment, with AI
agents transforming Contact Center as a Service (CCaaS) and

IVR systems, as well as in the emergence of dedicated sales
and marketing agents.
Allison Nathan: How can investors distinguish between
software companies that will likely remain resilient in the
face of AI-driven disruption, and those that may be at risk
of becoming obsolete?
Rick Sherlund: Investing in software has now become riskier,
making it important to distinguish between layers of the
software stack— applications are probably more at risk than

infrastructure software, while areas such as governance,
security, and data management stand to benefit most from AI
advances. Investors must carefully assess which companies
are most exposed to disruption and which possess complex
workflows that are more difficult to encroach upon, even if
these firms will eventually need to undergo significant
transformation to remain competitive.
Ultimately, the most promising companies are those doing the
heavy lifting to re-architect to put LLMs at their core and build

robust agentic frameworks. At the end of the day, only those
with the right architecture will be able to adapt and capitalize as
AI capabilities rapidly advance.


===== Page 61 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 8
Top of Mind Issue 146
The software ecosystem, at a glance


===== Page 62 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 9 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
The iShares Expanded Tech-Software Sector ETF (IGV), which tracks the performance of around 120 North American stocks in the 
software industry, has declined by around 17% since the beginning of the year and 26% from its fall 2025 highs 
Price

See here for more details about the IGV ETF.  
Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Valuations have also fallen sharply, with the companies in the ETF trading at roughly 22x, well below their Covid-era peak of 51x  
IGV NTM P/E

Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs GIR.

The 10 largest stocks in the IGV ETF have in total lost nearly $800 billion in market capitalization since the beginning of the year  
Market cap change for each of the 10 largest stocks in IGV since January 2, 2026, $bn

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Special thanks to GS US Portfolio Strategist Christophe Sung for data.  
 0
 5,000
 10,000
 15,000
 20,000
 25,000
 30,000
 0
 20
 40
 60
 80
 100
 120 IGV (lhs)
S&P 500 (rhs)
NDX (rhs)
-17% 
YTD
0
10
20
30
40
50
60
-550
-450
-350
-250
-150
-50
50
Microsoft Oracle Intuit Salesforce Palantir ServiceNow Adobe Synopsys CrowdStrike Palo Alto
Networks
The software selloff, visualized


===== Page 63 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 10 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Vertical Software  
A: Vertical software refers to products built for specific industries rather than general-purpose 
systems like email or accounting tools.These systems store critical data, reflect industry-specific 
workflows, and are deeply embedded in companies’ daily operations. Vertical vendors include 
firms like Guidewire Software (insurance), Tyler Technologies (public sector), and Veeva Systems 
(life sciences). As AI technology continues to rapidly evolve, the key question is whether new 
agentic technologies will make vertical systems less valuable or even replace them. Our view is 
nuanced but ultimately constructive. First, we believe vertical software systems will remain the 
core “systems of record” (see pg. 4-5) for their industries. The data and context embedded in 
these platforms are both unique to complex, industry-specific networks and essential for AI to 
generate meaningful, reliable outputs. Second, AI gives vertical software vendors an opportunity to enhance connectivity between 
complicated industry workflows and get customers more value out of their data. Over time, this will likely drive synergies between 
products and result in higher revenue, even if competition grows.  
The important nuance here is execution. Management teams that are fast followers—those that actively integrate new AI 
capabilities and maximize the value of available LLM technology— are better positioned to limit value abstraction. Conversely, less 
innovative vendors, rather than be valued as an immersive software ecosystem, could see their value erode to that of a database, 
which would likely weigh on pricing power and growth.   
Competition in this layer will likely intensify. We are already seeing early signs of this with businesses that deploy engineers 
directly within a customer’s environment to implement AI (often called forward deployed engineering), as well as early-stage tools 
launched by LLM companies themselves (i.e., Claude plugins). That said, incumbents that already own the underlying data and 
industry context layer start from a position of strength. Customers are also likely to be relatively patient with these vendors given 
the strength of their relationships and deep embeddedness of the software.  
These dynamics could ultimately drive more M&A. Incumbents seeking to remain competitive may increasingly turn to M&A to 
keep pace with AI-native innovation, while private equity firms may find vertical businesses with clear data and context moats 
increasingly attractive given the compression of public market valuations. 
Data Infrastructure and Physical -to-Digital  
A: Data infrastructure refers to platforms that store, govern, and secure data so it can be accessed 
and used across an organization, such as Snowflake, MongoDB, and Rubrik. We view AI as a force 
multiplier in this space. As organizations deploy AI copilots and agents, they will create and query 
more data, demand faster response times, and tolerate less downtime. This raises the value of this 
foundational layer, because it determines whether AI can run reliably and securely in production. 
The primary risk this subsector faces is that, over time, workloads could shift to newer or cheaper 
platforms— a familiar pattern in technology transitions—and more integrated AI stacks could 
reshape enterprises’ spending priorities. However, we see these as competitive dynamics to 
monitor rather than immediate existential threats. 
The disruption debate is more pointed for physical-to-digital companies. These are software firms that sell digital products to 
physical asset-intensive industries like construction and transportation. On the surface, these products can look like everyday 
applications. In reality, they sit inside mission-critical workflows with governance and compliance baked in, which raises the bar for 
AI-native challengers.  
The long-term risk is not that AI replaces these platforms outright, but that a general-purpose agent layer could sit above them and 
reduce their standalone importance. But our view is that AI adoption will gravitate toward systems that control proprietary data and 
link directly to real-world outcomes. For such systems, AI will likely become a source of reinforcement rather than disruption.  
AI disruption: software subsector impacts 
Q: Vertical Software, Data Infrastructure, and Physical-to-Digital are key subsectors of the software space. To what extent are legacy 
firms in these subsectors vulnerable to AI disruption?

Matthew Martino,                        
US Software Analyst 
Adam Hotchkiss,                          
US Emerging Software Analyst


===== Page 64 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 11 
Top of Mind Issue 146

AI tools for enterprise 
Note: Table does not constitute an exhaustive list of all AI tools for enterprise.  
Source: Company data, various news sources, compiled by Goldman Sachs GIR.  
SummaryTool
Core enterprise AI platforms
An AI productivity tool that operates as an AI agent that can perform tasks directly on a user's computer, including automating 
repetitive tasks such as organizing files, extracting data from PDFs into spreadsheets, and generating presentations. 
Anthropic Claude 
Cowork
An enterprise-grade platform designed to build, deploy, and manage autonomous AI agents that act as "digital co-workers." AI 
agents can perform complex, multi-step tasks across business systems like CRM and data warehouses.
OpenAI Frontier
An AI digital assistant integrated across Microsoft 365 apps (Word, Excel, Teams), Windows, and web browsers, designed to boost 
productivity and streamline workflows.
Microsoft Copilot
An AI digital assistant integrated directly into Gmail, Docs, Drive, Slides, Sheets, and Meet that helps users boost productivity 
through drafting, organizing, summarizing, and brainstorming.
Google Gemini for 
Workspace
An open-source autonomous AI agent that acts as a personal digital assistant capable of managing files, running terminal 
commands, and automating tasks across platforms like Discord, Slack, and WhatsApp.
OpenClaw
Uses autonomous AI agents that can execute manual, repetitive, end-to-end workflow tasks across existing software applications.Adept AI
AI for customer service and sales
An AI-powered customer service agent that can handle complex conversations across digital channels including around tracking 
orders or resolving issues.
Sierra AI
An AI customer service platform designed for enterprises to automate support across chat, email, and voice channels.Ada CX
A revenue intelligence platform using AI to analyze customer interactions to improve sales performance and identify risks.Gong AI
Provides AI-driven revenue forecasting and deal intelligence.Clari AI
AI for HR
Allows HR professionals to deploy specialized agents that operate across local files and enterprise apps. It can draft offer letters, 
build onboarding plans, and run compensation analyses by pulling data from multiple spreadsheets.
HR Plugin for Claude 
Cowork
A tool for high-volume recruitment that handles candidate screening, answers FAQs, and automatically schedules interviews 
based on recruiter availability.
Paradox
AI for financial services
An AI-powered market intelligence platform that aggregates millions of data points from equity research, filings, and news to 
provide real-time insights for analysts.
AlphaSense
Automates repetitive data workflows and analytical modeling, allowing finance teams to run various risk scenarios and 
consolidate disparate data sources without manual effort.
Alteryx
A finance-native platform embedding AI agents directly into budgeting, forecasting, and "continuous close" workflows to reduce 
human error in reporting.
Prophix One
An AI accounting platform that automates lease accounting and revenue recognition. Trullion AI
An AI platform that detects anomalies and generates predictive forecasts across finance, sales, and supply chain operations.Anaplan (PlanIQ)
AI for manufacturing and supply chains
A joint operating system that transforms "passive" digital twins into active intelligence, allowing real-time simulation and 
optimization of factory floors.
Siemens & NVIDIA 
(Industrial AI OS)
An AI-driven supply chain platform that provides cognitive analytics to predict disruptions and automatically adjust production 
and logistics schedules accordingly.
Blue Yonder
Leverages deep learning for high-speed machine vision quality control, detecting subtle defects that traditional rule-based 
systems miss.
Cognex Vision AI
An AI risk management platform that monitors global supply chains for geopolitical, financial, and ESG-related disruptions.Interos
Provides autonomous AI control systems for industrial manufacturing and mission-critical facilities, such as data centers.Phaidra
AI for legal and professional services
A domain-specific AI platform used by major law firms for regulatory research, document analysis, and drafting documents.Harvey AI
An AI platform specialized in M&A due diligence and autonomous NDA negotiation, capable of identifying anomalies across large
document sets.
Luminance
A contract lifecycle management tool that uses AI to automate the drafting, negotiation, and tracking of legal obligations at scale.Ironclad
An AI legal assistant that performs case law research, summarizes depositions, and reviews documents for relevance using 
advanced reasoning.
Casetext (CoCounsel)
AI for retail and e-commerce
An integrated AI layer for CRM that generates personalized product descriptions, predicts customer churn, and provides 
merchandising insights.
Salesforce Einstein
Suite of AI tools that automates inventory management, generates marketing copy, and personalizes product recommendations.Shopify Magic
An AI shopping assistant that uses conversational AI to guide customers through product discovery, acting as a digital salesperson 
on e-commerce sites.
ConversionBox


===== Page 65 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 12 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Sanjay Poonen is CEO and President of Cohesity, an AI-powered data security and 
management firm, and serves on the boards of Philips and Snyk. Previously, Poonen was 
COO at VMware and President of SAP. Below, he argues that agentic AI has the potential to 
be enormously disruptive for the software industry, and legacy firms must adapt by leveraging 
the technology to improve their product offerings or risk being demolished by it. 
The views stated herein are those of the interviewee and do not necessarily reflect those of Goldman Sachs.
Allison Nathan: Based on your vast 
experience in the software industry, 
does the emergence of new agentic 
AI tools for software development 
mark a transformative moment for 
the industry? 
Sanjay Poonen: Agentic AI has 
already proven to be an incredibly 
powerful tool with the potential to be 
enormously disruptive. As an engineer who began my career 
writing code, this is a truly exciting and transformative 
moment—back in the 1990s, I often stayed up late trying to 
debug code, hoping to find another engineer also working late 
whom I could consult. Today, that ”person” is an AI assistant. 
However, just like any technology wave, you must surf this 
tsunami, or it will demolish you. If software engineers aren’t 
leveraging AI technology to write code and improve productivity 
today, it’s a crime. The best software engineers I know, both at 
Cohesity and beyond, say that the technology is revolutionizing 
the way they code. So, we’ve thoroughly embraced it at 
Cohesity. But every business should be thinking about how 
these tools can support and improve not only their software 
engineers, sales reps, and human resources personnel, but also 
their products and services. I see limitless potential to leverage 
generative AI in almost every industry, from medtech to 
aeronautics and even space.

Agentic AI has already proven to be an 
incredibly powerful tool with the potential to 
be enormously disruptive... However, just like 
any technology wave, you must surf this 
tsunami, or it will demolish you.” 
Allison Nathan: You paint a very positive picture of the 
benefits of AI for software and productivity. But the whole 
software sector has re-rated substantially lower because of 
concerns that legacy software companies won't be able to 
compete even if they are embracing AI technology 
themselves. So, are these concerns warranted? 
Sanjay Poonen: With such transformative technology, every 
software company must assess whether they can sustain their 
current price per user or will instead be threatened by AI-native 
or other competitors leveraging the technology. At the core of 
every Software as a Service (SaaS) application is a CRUD—
Create, Read, Update, Delete—database that maintains data, 
application logic, and workflows, which AI tools have the 
potential to radically disrupt. If a company can sustain its price 
per user amid this disruption, it will likely be fine. But some 
companies may need to lower their price per user to remain 
competitive. That doesn’t necessarily mean the company will 
go bankrupt or disappear, but it does have important 
implications for revenue growth and terminal value. So, every 
CEO, analyst, and investor is rightly assessing this risk.

With such transformative technology, 
every software company must assess 
whether they can sustain their current price 
per user or will instead be threatened by AI 
native or other competitors leveraging the 
technology.” 
Allison Nathan: Is it realistic to think that these companies 
will be able to effectively respond to this pricing pressure 
and stay competitive? 
Sanjay Poonen: Yes, but it requires innovation. Firms whose 
core products are under pressure may need to add a second or 
third module with enhanced capabilities that garners a higher 
price per user to compensate for the lost revenue. For 
example, a company could offer a small, medium, and large 
packaging of its product, with the price per user of the small, 
base product coming down, but the price per user of the larger 
product offerings higher.  
Alternatively, firms can expand into new areas to grow their 
total addressable market (TAM) and sustain revenue growth 
even as price per user declines. When I was at SAP, we 
recognized that a price per user ceiling existed for our ERP 
software and responded by adding a system of engagement on 
top of the system of record by acquiring analytics companies 
and building new business objects. This allowed us to raise the 
effective price per user for the combined product offering. 
Every company facing disruption of their core product will need 
to make these types of adjustments.  
SaaS companies can also attempt to shift from a price per user 
to a price per outcome model, where fees are based on the 
measurable value they provide to the customer. That pricing 
model is harder to sustain because tracking outcomes can be 
challenging and an IT buyer typically has a fixed budget and is 
often unable or unwilling to enter into a vendor contract with 
fees that depend on the broader company’s performance. 
Because of that, most companies price per user. The only 
company I am aware of that uses a price per outcome model is 
Palantir, which often sells its product at the CEO level, where 
the power to make these decisions resides.  
Interview with Sanjay Poonen


===== Page 66 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 13 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Allison Nathan: So, is the indiscriminate selloff across the 
software space overdone? 
Sanjay Poonen: The answer to that will ultimately be 
determined by the revenue growth of these companies. As 
both a student of software and the CEO of a software 
company, I will be closely watching whether growth is holding 
up or slowing down. That said, in the security world Cohesity 
lives in, the large market reaction to Anthropic’s announcement 
that it had built a code scanning tool for security was akin to 
Anthropic sneezing and everyone coming down with 
pneumonia. But the market seemed to quickly realize that this 
was an overreaction and that this tool won’t enable users to 
build a firewall or a data or endpoint security product overnight.   
Allison Nathan: Even if that’s true today, are you 
concerned that it won’t be in the future given the rapid 
rate at which generative/agentic AI technology is 
advancing? 
Sanjay Poonen: Former Intel CEO Andy Grove said it best: 
“only the paranoid survive.” Nobody in this space can afford to 
be cavalier about the potential for disruption. As a CEO, I have 
to assume that someone could use AI tools to build a 
competitor. In fact, I recently asked an AI assistant to build a 
Cohesity competitor to see what it would do. Unsurprisingly, its 
first response was that this was a “tall order.” But it was able 
to think about the challenge in logical steps, which revealed an 
understanding of how to build a competitor. So, it’s only safe to 
assume that, given time, these tools will eventually be able to 
do just that. For that reason, it is incumbent upon myself and 
every other CEO in a similar position to take advantage of these 
same tools to expand and improve our own product offerings. 
Again, we must ride the tsunami to our benefit rather than let it 
demolish us.

Former Intel CEO Andy Grove said it 
best: “only the paranoid survive.” Nobody in 
this space can afford to be cavalier about the 
potential for disruption.” 
Allison Nathan: But is just bolting AI agents onto legacy 
layers ever going to be as successful and powerful as 
native AI product offerings, or will legacy companies 
eventually have to start from scratch? 
Sanjay Poonen: Software is typically built in architectural 
layers, with the top layers easiest to refresh and the core, 
bottom layers much harder to. But even timeless software 
evolves every decade or two, so engineers must be 
comfortable with the idea of completely rewriting part of or 
even the whole architectural stack. The good news is that using 
new tools and approaches to rewrite code from scratch will 
probably take a small fraction of the time it took to write the 
original code. Even then, disrupting the whole stack is 
undoubtedly hard, even if necessary. In such instances, 
companies might decide to shelter in place and keep the 
business and cashflow running while simultaneously building or 
buying the next generation of the company. I see this as akin to 
living in your old house while building a new one next door and 
only tearing down the old house once the new one is ready.  
We dealt with this at every organization I’ve worked at. At SAP, 
as new companies that were building a SaaS version of ERP in 
the cloud threatened to disrupt our on-prem product, we had to 
consider whether we could build a cloud-native product fast 
enough without disrupting our core platform. The best 
companies find a way to constantly evolve their stack to remain 
competitive. 
Allison Nathan: While large players like a Microsoft or 
Salesforce may be able rebuild, is there an inherent 
disadvantage for the smaller companies that have less 
resources to do so?   
Sanjay Poonen: It’s wrong to assume that reinvention is easier 
at a Microsoft or Salesforce, and in fact the opposite may be 
true. It took new leadership for Microsoft to transform from a 
Windows company to a cloud company and now an AI 
company. In my experience, the bigger the company, the 
greater the molasses, dinosaur mindsets, and resistance to 
change. Smaller companies may not have as many resources, 
but they have the advantage of speed. It’s a bit like a 
speedboat vs. an aircraft carrier—small firms c an usually make 
decisions faster and are less likely to have a large legacy install 
base that they must worry about transforming. Microsoft 
pivoting away from Windows to Azure was a big and highly 
risky shift. A company starting completely from scratch has no 
legacy to deal with. I’m reminded of the joke that God created 
the world in seven days because he didn't have an install base. 
The bigger the install base, the tougher it is to pivot and 
change.  
All that said, whether small, medium, or large, as long as a 
company maintains a mindset and culture that is open to 
innovation, none of these challenges are too daunting to 
achieve. Companies with such a mindset can start things from 
scratch and build on them without destroying the house they 
live in, which allows them to create S-curve upon S-curve of 
continued innovation.  
Allison Nathan: So, what could the software industry look 
like in five or 10 years? 
Sanjay Poonen: I expect more vertical industry software 
capabilities in industries like space, healthcare, material 
sciences, and robotics. Consider SpaceX’s vision of data 
centers in space, where cooling isn’t a problem. That endeavor 
will undoubtedly require software. The same could be said for 
biotech, medtech, and robotics, which will almost certainly 
increasingly attract top software talent that previously went to 
the Googles and Salesforces of the world, driving innovation 
that could help people live healthier and longer lives. So, my 
hope is that the software industry spreads its skillset into other 
vertical industries with positive implications for society and the 
world. And AI will undoubtedly be a part of every one of those 
industries.


===== Page 67 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 14 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Ben Snider argues that a rebound in the 
stocks most exposed to AI disruption risk 
likely won’t come until earnings stabilize 
The AI narrative has shifted. After three years of equity investor 
enthusiasm regarding the tailwinds from AI, recent equity 
market rotations reflect a growing focus on the risk of AI 
disruption. Software stocks have been at the center of this 
shift, falling by 18% from their YTD highs and now sitting 
roughly 26% below late 2025 levels. Stocks in a range of data-
intensive industries beyond software, including insurance, 
media, and business services, have also declined sharply in 
recent weeks. While the moves have been swift and severe, 
we think a rebound in the stocks most exposed to AI disruption 
risk will take time, as disproving the disruption narrative won’t 
be easy or quick.  
Re-rating: a decomposition 
After entering 2026 at extremely elevated valuations, growth 
expectations, and weights in investor portfolios, the software 
industry has sharply re-rated to reflect declining expectations 
for future earnings growth as AI disruption risk grows. 
The industry’s forward P/E multiple has fallen from roughly 35x 
in late 2025— consistent with 2028 consensus revenue growth 
in the 15-20% range, over twice the roughly 6% growth 
expected for the median S&P 500 stock and the highest 
expected growth in at least two decades—to around 22x 
currently, the low end of the multiple’s recent range and the 
lowest absolute level since 2014, consistent with 5-10% 
earnings growth.  
Given the high starting point of valuations, software continues 
to trade at a valuation premium to the equal-weight S&P 500 
despite the recent selloff, and its 9% S&P 500 weight is 
roughly double its weight a decade ago. 
Software continues to trade at a valuation premium to the equal-
weight S&P 500 despite the recent selloff... 
Software forward P/E, X (lhs), % (rhs)

Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs GIR.

...with its weight in the S&P 500 roughly double that of a decade ago 
Software weight in the S&P 500, %

Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
In addition to lower growth expectations, the recent re-rating 
reflects rising uncertainty around the long-term trajectory of the 
industry and the “terminal value” of stocks previously viewed 
as long-duration growth assets. In other words, share prices 
now reflect not just slower expected growth, but also doubts 
about the durability of business models as AI disruption raises 
questions about pricing power and competitive barriers.  
The impact of this long-term uncertainty can be seen in the 
juxtaposition of recent share price volatility and 4Q25 earnings 
results. In contrast with falling share prices, recent earnings 
results have reflected strong profitability—including double- digit 
earnings growth last quarter, with profit margins for the 
industry sitting at record highs and roughly twice those of the 
rest of the market—and have driven upward revisions to near-
term analyst earnings estimates.  
The performance and earnings of software stocks have diverged   
Indexed performance and earnings of software stocks

Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Lessons from history: don’t expect a V-shaped rebound 
Historical episodes of disruption risk suggest that share prices 
in affected industries will likely stabilize only when earnings 
stabilize, and that these periods of uncertainty can last for 
years. In the early 2000s, US newspaper stocks fell by an 
average of around 95% over the course of five years, and the 
group bottomed out only slightly ahead of the stabilization in 
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
120%
140%
160%
180%
200%
10 x
15 x
20 x
25 x
30 x
35 x
40 x
45 x
50 x
55 x
2002 2006 2010 2014 2018 2022 2026 2030
Absolute (lhs)
Premium to equal-weight
S&P 500 (rhs)
22x
29%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
2005 2010 2015 2020 2025 2030
Excluding
MSFT
12%
9%
4%
3%
5%
2%
70
80
90
100
110
120
130
140
Dec-24 Mar-25 Jun-25 Sep-25 Dec-25 Mar-26
Performance Consensus 2-year forward earnings
Software stocks: earnings stability needed


===== Page 68 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 15 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
forward earnings estimates. Tobacco stocks in the late 1990s 
experienced disruption risk driven by litigation, rather than 
technology, but the pattern was similar. In that episode, share 
prices declined by over 50% in 1997‑1998 and troughed only as 
the litigation settlement reduced uncertainty and the near‑term 
earnings outlook stabilized. Given the rapid pace of AI 
advancement today, disproving the narrative of disruption risk is 
difficult when near-term earnings outlooks in the vulnerable 
industry have barely begun to weaken, much less stabilized. 
US newspaper stock prices stabilized only when earnings stabilized 
Indexed avg return and consensus forward earnings of US newspaper stocks

Source: FactSet, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
For investors, the lesson is not to expect a V-shaped rebound in 
the parts of the equity market most affected by recent 
disruption fears. For these industries, near‑term earnings can 
be an important signal of business resilience, but in many cases 
will be insufficient to disprove long‑term downside risk. For the 
group to re-rate higher, investors will likely require more clarity 
on AI’s eventual business impact, which will take time, or a 
substantially lower starting point for valuations and ownership. 
This may be an easier lift for the parts of the software and 
business services industries with particularly resilient business 
moats, but those moats, too, will need to be proven.  
Of course, in any broad-based selloff there will liely be some 
proverbial “babies thrown out with the bathwater” that 
represent value opportunities for stock pickers. In the current 
episode, the key is the speed with which companies can 
disprove disruption risk.  
Avoiding AI disruption risk: look to “real world” assets  
Another consequence of the recent focus on disruption risk is a 
rotation of investor portfolios toward “real world” assets with 
perceived insulation from AI disruption risk. Recent 
outperformers in this vein include a handful of cyclical 
industries like industrials and materials that have also enjoyed 
tailwinds from an improving economic growth backdrop. GS 
forecasts for above-trend economic growth have lent 
fundamental support to cyclicals’ recent strength, and we 
entered 2026 recommending investors own many of these 
stocks. However, the tailwind from cyclical economic 
acceleration also highlights the broader equity market 
vulnerability if the growth backdrop proves less robust than 
expected or industry-specific AI disruption fears spread to 
broader concerns about labor market disruption. This risk helps 
explain the recent outperformance of more defensive “AI-
insulated” sectors, including consumer staples and biopharma, 
and we think the appropriate strategy is to balance cyclical 
exposures with some relatively defensive equity positions. 
The recent focus on AI disruption risk has triggered a rotation 
toward “real world” assets 
Russell 1000 industry median

Source: Revelio, company filings, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Increased investor desire for “AI insulation” has led asset-heavy 
stocks to sharply outperform 
Asset-heavy vs. asset-light indexed performance

Note: Grey bars indicate recessions.  
Source: Goldman Sachs GIR.

Ben Snider, Chief US Equity Strategist    
Email: ben.snider@gs.com Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Tel:  212-357-1744 
0
20
40
60
80
100
120
140
2002 2003 2004 2005 2006 2007 2008 2009 2010 2011
Consensus forward earnings Average return
EnergyEquity REITs
Semis
HH & Personal 
Products
Utilities
Banks
Telecom
Food Bev & 
Tobacco
Materials
Capital GoodsConsumer 
Services Tech Hardware
Autos
HC Equip & 
SvcsTransportation
Staples Retail
Financial Svcs
Pharma & Biotech
Insurance
Media & Ent
Software & 
Services
Comm & Prof 
Services
Real Estate 
Mgmt & Dev
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
24% 26% 28% 30% 32% 34% 36% 38% 40% 42%
Labor costs as % of revenues 
Exposure to automation by AI
Positive YTD return
Negative YTD return
Most 
exposed
Least 
exposed
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026
Asset-heavy
outperforming
Asset-light
outperforming


===== Page 69 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 16 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Christian Mueller-Glissmann discusses the 
why and how of managing AI risk in portfolios 
amid growing AI disruption fears 
Investor concerns about AI risks for the global technology 
sector have grown amid ongoing worries about hyperscalers’ 
massive AI capex spend and, most recently, rising fears that 
new AI tools will disrupt tech incumbents, especially legacy 
software firms. Such concerns matter because global portfolios 
are highly exposed to the technology sector, especially within 
US equities, where software stocks have a relatively large 
weight, with substantial exposures to technology and software 
specifically also a feature of private markets.  
But the fate of the tech sector also matters more broadly given 
how closely tied structural cycles in US equity valuations and 
outperformance have been to the performance of tech stocks. 
To achieve more balance between innovation and inflation risks 
within portfolios, we think investors may need to continue 
rotating from capital-light to capital-heavy businesses that AI 
won’t easily disrupt, though the aggressive rotations we’ve 
already seen warrant being more selective.     
A tech-dependent equity market... 
What happens to the tech sector has broader implications for 
the equity market for several reasons. The sector has 
historically been a key driver of structural cycles for US 
equities, with major waves of technological innovation often 
significantly impacting the broader market. During the 1960s 
PC boom, 1990s Internet boom, and the post-Global Financial 
Crisis (GFC) ascent of the Magnificent 7, tech’s share of total 
market cap rose sharply, and significant market corrections 
often followed these periods. Today, the TMT sector once 
again commands the largest weight within US equities, 
comparable to Tech Bubble levels, but the sector’s contribution 
to earnings is now substantially greater compared to then. 
Tech’s weight in the US equity market has risen sharply during 
major waves of technological innovation                                                                       
Tech market cap and earnings weight within US equities, %

Source: Datastream, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Tech has also played a key role in driving structurally higher 
S&P 500 profitability and valuations. Since the GFC, the return 
on equity (ROE) across the TMT sector has nearly doubled, 
significantly lifting the S&P 500’s overall profitability. This trend 
accelerated during the pandemic as technology adoption 
surged. Higher profitability has, in turn, supported higher equity 
valuations. Indeed, the rise in the S&P 500’s Shiller P/E over 
the past two decades reflects two interconnected elements: 
improved corporate profitability—driven by the growing weight 
of the highly profitable, capital-light US tech sector—and 
persistently low and stable inflation. And the strong 
performance of large cap tech stocks has driven a large amount 
of the US equity outperformance since the GFC.  
The ROE for the TMT sector has nearly doubled since the GFC, 
significantly boosting S&P 500 profitability                                                          
P/E

Source: Compustat, Goldman Sachs GIR.

High profitability, coupled with low inflation expectations, have 
fueled a rise in US equity valuations

Source: Haver Analytics, Kenneth French, Robert Shiller, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
...meets AI disruption fears 
Investors have extrapolated the TMT sector’s high ROE, even 
as these firms pay out relatively little to shareholders, 
essentially betting that major tech conglomerates will maintain 
their profitability as they make substantial reinvestments. 
However, last year anxieties around AI capex began to impact 
some of the largest spenders in the sector, particularly the 
hyperscalers. Beyond concerns around potential future AI 
revenues, the big spenders are also becoming more capital-
heavy, which might weigh on ROE in the medium term. 
0%
5%
10%
15%
20%
25%
30%
35%
40%
45%
1973 1978 1983 1988 1993 1998 2003 2008 2013 2018 2023
Market cap weight
Earnings weight
Ascent of 
Mag 7
Internet 
boom
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
35
1976 1981 1986 1991 1996 2001 2006 2011 2016 2021 2026
S&P 500 S&P 500 ex. TMT TMT
5x
10x
15x
20x
25x
30x
35x
40x
45x
50x
1950 1957 1964 1971 1978 1985 1992 1999 2006 2013 2020
S&P 500 Shiller P/E
Macro-implied level (R2=0.79)
Macro-implied based on 10y
inflation swap
Managing AI risk in portfolios


===== Page 70 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 17 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
More recently, rising concerns about AI disruption have 
weighed on parts of the TMT sector, especially software 
stocks, with investors increasingly worried that the tech sector 
may end up disrupting itself. Advances in AI-powered task 
automation, for example, could undermine the pricing power of 
some of the most profitable large-cap software firms. While AI 
adoption may also boost other businesses’ ROEs, a decline in 
the profitability of the market’s largest and most lucrative 
segment could adversely affect the S&P 500’s overall ROE and 
dampen long-term return expectations, which currently rely on 
the compounding of those ROEs. And markets have been 
pricing negative AI disruption faster than potential tailwinds 
from AI adoption. 
Lower corporate profitability could portend lower long-term 
equity returns and less attractive equity risk premia                                                
S&P 500 ROE in 10 years scenarios, % (x-axis) vs. annualized nominal returns 
for stocks and bonds and equity risk premium (ERP), % (y-axis)*

*See this note for more detail about the long-term return calculations.  
Source: Haver Analytics, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
Balancing innovation and inflation risks 
We expect an AI-driven rise in productivity to eventually 
support corporate profitability. But concerns about AI disruption 
may continue to be priced faster than the benefits of AI 
adoption. On top of that, the AI application firms driving 
disruption are mostly private companies and, as such, not easily 
investable, which makes it difficult to diversify AI disruption 
risk. Investors may therefore demand more risk premium for at-
risk businesses, which has already driven a rotation and value 
convergence between capital-light growth sectors like TMT and 
capital-heavy value sectors like telecoms, industrials, and 
utilities that AI is unlikely to disrupt.  
Owing to a boost from innovation, the TMT sector has become 
a much larger part of the S&P 500 since the GFC, while capital-
heavy sectors have underperformed, partly owing to a lack of 
inflation. As investors continue to worry about AI disruption, 
this may lead them to demand a higher equity risk premium, 
which could result in some de-rating of equities vs. bonds, with 
bonds potentially also benefitting from disinflation due to AI 
disruption.

The TMT sector holds a dominant position within the US equity 
market, with capital-heavy sectors holding a relatively small one                   
Share of S&P 500 by sector, %

Source: Bloomberg, Datastream, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
To manage innovation and inflation risks within portfolios, 
investors may need to continue rotating further from growth to 
value and capital-light to capital-heavy businesses, both in 
equity and credit. However, after the aggressive rotations since 
the beginning of the year, we favor being more selective. 
Within equities, we continue to see diversification benefits from 
defensive styles such as low volatility stocks, dividend 
aristocrats, and infrastructure, which materially outperformed 
on a risk-adjusted basis during the Tech bubble burst.  
We also expect more dispersion as AI will likely continue to 
produce more winners and losers. This should support 
strategies that buy individual stock and sell index options and 
long/short hedge funds in both equity and credit. And we 
continue to view geographical diversification as an attractive 
strategy. TMT exposure is typically lower in non-US equity 
markets and tends to be more hardware-focused, with such 
markets also offering more capital-heavy sector opportunities.  
Defensive styles have lagged in recent years but outperformed 
over the long run                                                                                                              
Total return relative performance vs. S&P 500 (grey bars indicate periods of 
15%+ market selloffs)*

Source: Datastream, Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR.

Christian Mueller-Glissmann, Head of Asset Allocation 
Research 
Email:  christian.mueller-glissmann@gs.com  Goldman Sachs International 
Tel:   44-20-7774-1714 
-2%
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
24% 22% 20% 18% 16% 14% Average
return
since
1950
S&P 500 US 10y bonds ERP
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
50%
60%
70%
80%
90%
100%
1950 1957 1964 1971 1978 1985 1992 1999 2006 2013 2020
IT & Comm. Svs Commodity Financials Healthcare
Industrials Consumer Discr. Consumer Staples Utilities
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
1996 1999 2002 2005 2008 2011 2014 2017 2020 2023 2026
S&P 500 Low Vol (1.3x)
S&P 500 Div Arist. (1.1x)
DJ Global Infrastructure (1.3x)


===== Page 71 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 18 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Shamshad Ali argues that software loan 
losses owing to AI disruption fears are unlikely 
to catalyze a turn in the credit default cycle 
Recent headlines around AI-driven disruption—and the 
associated sharp drawdown in software stocks—have weighed 
on software-exposed credit, most notably in the broadly 
syndicated loan (BSL) market. As sectors like insurance, 
brokers, and other services exposed to AI disintermediation 
have also come under pressure as more new AI tools have 
emerged and investors worry about downstream implications, 
we believe the BSL market faces the greatest risk should 
disruption concerns translate into weaker earnings trajectories 
for traditional software companies, which would erode interest 
coverage ratios for these already levered borrowers. Given that 
software accounts for a meaningful share of the BSL market, 
some degree of index-level stress would be difficult to avoid if 
fundamentals continue to deteriorate. That said, the benign 
macro backdrop and lower funding costs should help limit the 
risk of a turn in the credit default cycle. 
A more exposed BSL market 
Software accounts for only a small slice of the USD IG and HY 
bond indices (roughly 5%) but a meaningfully larger share of 
the BSL market (16%). While many IG software issuers are 
large incumbents (including the AI hyperscalers), software-
exposed issuers in the HY bond and leveraged loan markets 
have underperformed broader benchmarks as investors have 
repriced disruption risk. HY software has shifted from trading 
tighter than the average spread level of the overall HY index to 
roughly double index spreads, while secondary prices for 
software loans have fallen to the lowest levels since April 2025. 
Software accounts for only a small slice of IG and HY but a 
meaningfully larger share of the BSL market                                                             
TMT subindex exposure in USD credit, %

Source: Bloomberg, Pitchbook LCD, Goldman Sachs GIR.  
A defining feature of software-related loans is the linkage to 
sponsor-backed (typically private equity) activity. Since 2021, 
nearly 40% of technology leveraged loan supply has been tied 
to sponsor-driven M&A and LBO financing. Another 10% of 
issuance stemmed from dividend recapitalization—firms taking 
on new debt to pay dividends—as sponsors sought liquidity 
amid a less favorable exit environment. The upshot is that 
underwriting is no longer just about borrower fundamentals; 
investors also need to carefully consider sponsor incentives, 
time horizon, and sponsors’ willingness to support a firm’s 
capital structure through difficult periods as the industry 
navigates a changing paradigm.  
80% of tech loan issuance since 2021 has been sponsor-backed                                                                                                                               
Share of total gross Computer and Electronics loan issuance since 2021 by 
category, $bn

Source: Pitchbook LCD, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
Some impairment likely, but not a turn in the default cycle 
The potential persistence of AI disruption pressures would 
likely most clearly manifest via downgrades and lower 
secondary prices in the software-heavy portion of the loan 
index. Particularly important to watch would be the implications 
of such shifts for the CLO community, the main buyer of 
leveraged loans. CLOs have built-in rules or covenants 
designed to ensure that the overall diversification and quality of 
the underlying loans in their portfolios remain within acceptable 
limits (concentration, over-collateralization and collateral-quality 
tests). The downgrading of too many loans to a CCC rating 
(BSL CLOs typically have a limit of 7.5% for CCC exposure) 
could trigger various penalties. As a result, prices for these 
loans could move beyond fundamentals as the investor base 
potentially shifts from CCC-averse CLO buyers.  
That said, bifurcation in loans isn’t new. Even in periods when 
lower-quality loans cheapen, the broader index can remain 
resilient when higher-quality borrowers repeatedly reprice their 
loans at lower spreads and new loan supply is muted, as has 
been the case this year. Overall, while some impairment in 
software-exposed loans is hard to avoid, we don’t think this 
impairment is sufficient to catalyze a credit default cycle, for 
two reasons. First, the macro backdrop remains benign, and 
history suggests that defaults typically coincide with rather than 
predict the broader cycle. Second, lower interest rates and 
improved funding conditions should continue to provide 
incremental relief to floating-rate borrowers. 
Pain in direct lending, but de-leveraging risk looks contained 
Beyond the BSL market, direct lending— and by extension 
business development companies (BDCs) that invest in small 
and mid-sized, often private, firms—has been in the crosshairs 
given meaningful allocations to software. Indeed, our equity 
analysts estimate that software portfolio companies account for 
0
5
10
15
20
25
30
USD IG USD HY Leveraged loans
Other
Telecom
Media & Advertising
Software and Computer Services
10%
10%
29%
10%
29%
13%
0
50
100
150
200
250
300
350
400
Since 2021
Other issuance
Sponsor-backed other
Dividend Recapitalization
LBO
Strategic M&A
Sponsor-backed M&A
Software disruption & credit: no hard fall


===== Page 72 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 19 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
22% of BDC loans (see pg. 20). Consistent with this, BDC 
equities have tended to trade at wider discounts to net asset 
value (NAV) while BDC credit spreads generally have widened 
in accordance with software exposure. 
BDC credit spread widening correlates with software exposure                                                                                                                 
Software exposure as of 3Q25, % (x-axis) vs. on-the-run BDC senior unsecured 
bond spread change, ratio relative to Jan. 23 level (y-axis)

Source: Bloomberg, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
We are closely monitoring signs of stress in BDC portfolios and 
have long argued that some writedown in asset valuations is 
likely. Recent liquidations of assets in BDC portfolios have also 
fueled speculation about asset health despite the loans selling 
at high, near-par, dollar prices. While full transparency isn’t 
available on the sales, our equity analysts continue to think that 
credit trends in BDC portfolio data seem benign for now, but 
near-term portfolio data will remain under scrutiny.  
While the rising rate of redemptions in BDCs is worth 
monitoring, we continue to think that the probability of a 
liquidity event or forced de-leveraging in direct lending is low 
owing to generally moderate leverage and substantial dry 
powder that can re-enter the complex and provide support, 
especially at more attractive valuations.  
More dispersion from the next leg of the AI trade 
While AI disruption fears remain centered on software, they 
have now spread to several other sectors, including insurance, 
brokers, and broader financial services (see pgs. 21-23), as the 
foundational model providers continue to roll out new domain-
specific products. Amid this, IG and HY sector performance has 
become correlated with exposure to AI automation, mirroring 
the broader risk asset rotation toward “real economy” sectors 
that are less exposed at the expense of white-collar services 
that could face more disruption risk.  
Looking ahead, we think this higher dispersion dynamic will 
persist, for two reasons. First, continued improvements in AI 
capabilities will likely impact more industries. Second, 
dispersion within industries should rise as company outcomes 
diverge based on the execution of AI adoption strategies. This 
dispersion will make it more difficult for investors to calibrate 
fair value for affected sectors, and issuer selection will become 
increasingly important. But we still see limited scope for 
serious impairment, especially for higher quality firms. Beyond 
their incumbent status and low starting points for leverage, we 
would note that the concerns around terminal values that have 
fueled much of the equity volatility are less salient for fixed 
duration credit assets, which are concerned with repayment of 
interest and principal.   
Credit sector performance has become correlated with AI exposure                                                                                                     
AI automation exposure, % (x-axis) vs. IG spread change YTD, bp (y-axis)

AI automation exposure, % (x-axis) vs. HY spread change YTD, bp (y-axis)

AI automation exposure, % (x-axis) vs. leveraged loan price change YTD, $ (y-
axis, inverted)

Source: Revelio, Bloomberg, Goldman GIR.  
Shamshad Ali, Senior Credit Strategist     
Email: shamshad.ali@gs.com Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC 
Tel:  212-902-6712 
R² = 0.23
1.0
1.1
1.2
1.3
1.4
1.5
1.6
1.7
1.8
1.9
0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Energy
Insurance
Banking
Brokers/ Asset 
managers
Packaging
Cable Satellite
Retailers
Cyclical 
Services
Autos
Restaurants
Gaming
Lodging Healthcare
Pharma
Food & Bev
Airlines
Tech hardware
Software
Semiconductors
R² = 0.15
-8
-6
-4
-2
0
2
4
6
8
10
12
14
16
18 23 28 33 38 43
Index spread 
change
Insurance
REITs
Brokers/ Asset 
managers
Chemicals
Metals and 
Mining
Cable Satellite
Telecom
Retailers
Cyclical 
Services
Gaming
Lodging
Healthcare
Pharma
Tech hardware
Software
SemiconductorsR² = 0.22
-50
-25
0
25
50
75
100
125
150
23 28 33 38 43
Index spread change
Energy
Insurance
Brokers/Asset 
Managers
Chemicals
Metals and 
Mining
Paper
Packaging
Media 
Entertainment
Cable Satellite
Telecom
Cyclical 
Services
Restaurants
Gaming
Lodging Airlines
Railroads
Software
R² = 0.16
-7
-6
-5
-4
-3
-2
-1
0
1
2
3
18 23 28 33 38 43
Index price change


===== Page 73 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 20 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
Alexander Blostein and Michael Vinci argue 
that Alternative Asset Managers have limited 
exposure to AI-related software disruptions 
Concerns about AI-driven disruption risk have once again 
weighed on Alternative Asset Managers’ stocks, which have 
declined ~27% YTD, bringing share prices and valuations below 
post-Liberation Day lows (NTM P/E net of stock-based 
compensation (SBC) at ~15X currently). This decline largely 
reflects concerns about software exposure across both private 
equity and private credit as well as fears that weaker 
investment performance could hamper growth. However, 
firmwide software exposure remains limited— averaging ~7% 
of total AUM—with software lending only modestly 
contributing to management fees, and managers have also 
been highly selective in their software investments, choosing 
those with more robust moats. While we think the recent 
selloff is overdone and continue to see significant upside 
across the sector, we remain cautious around names with 
outsized Retail Credit exposure given accelerating redemption 
requests. 
Modest software exposure  
Overall, we view Alternative Asset Managers’ exposure to 
software investments as manageable. On the private equity 
(PE) front, while software has accounted for ~25% of industry-
wide deployment volumes in recent years, exposure at Public 
Alternative Managers is more modest, with software activity 
among PE firms averaging only ~6% of total management 
fees. These estimates may even prove conservative as actual 
net exposure could be lower after managers monetized many 
investments in prior years. 
PE software investments average ~6% of total management fees 
2025 estimated firmwide management fees from Info Tech investments, %

Source: Preqin, Goldman Sachs GIR. 
On the credit front, across BDCs (where public data is 
available), we estimate that software loans represent ~22% of 
gross loans at an industry level, with a similar share among 
Public Alternative Managers—~20% of Direct Lending FPAUM 
on average. This translates to around 25% of Direct Lending 
base management fees.  
But software lending is a relatively small portion of firmwide 
management fees when accounting for the broader spectrum 
of Alt asset classes that GPs manage. We estimate that Direct 
Lending to software-oriented portfolio companies accounts for 
4% of firmwide base management fees on average. Even in 
the most adverse scenario of a significant markdown in 
software loans, our stress analysis (5%-15% mark-to-market) 
suggests the effect on firmwide base fees would remain in the 
low single-digits. And, importantly, these software loans are 
mostly senior secured and short duration, with the underlying 
companies generally showing strong EBITDA and cash flow.  
Direct Lending to software-oriented portfolio companies accounts for 
4% of firmwide base management fees on average 
Estimated software direct lending firmwide base fees, %


===== Page 74 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 21 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
What types of companies in your coverage universe could be disrupted by and, conversely, benefit from new AI tools, and how much 
of this is already priced into stocks? 
Consumer Internet Eric Sheridan and team, GS Equity Research 
• AI tools are currently having a democratizing effect on product development and innovation within the consumer internet 
sector, presenting disintermediation risk while also driving efficiency gains. Within our TMT coverage universe, digital 
advertising and gaming are the most exposed subsectors to AI disintermediation risk and have also seen the most 
advanced adoption of AI tools—a trend that the recent declines in several gaming and advertising stocks reflects. 
• Digital advertising, in particular, has advanced the furthest in AI-driven product development and end-user adoption (outside 
of cloud computing). Companies within the subsector are currently integrating AI into four key workflows: campaign 
planning and strategy, creative development, media buying and optimization, and CRM and personalization. GOOGL’s 
Performance Max and META’s Advantage+ have been exceptionally successful in integrating multiple AI use cases into a 
single product. These AI-powered tools have the potential to both “abstract away”/automate many advertising services as 
well as improve the overall performance and efficiency of ad spend. This should result in shifting profit dynamics including: 
1) accelerating the shift of ad spend from traditional to digital channels (an estimated $170bn addressable opportunity), 2) 
automating ad creative generation (~$114bn), 3) consolidating ad tech “intermediaries” (~$25bn), and 4) disrupting the 
traditional role of ad agencies (~$161bn). 
• Beyond online advertising, the specter of AI disruption has caused outsized volatility across many other subsectors—
including media & advertising, online marketplaces, online dating, travel, online education, and online gaming & gambling—
which we expect to persist. Incumbent consumer internet platforms are playing a mix of “offense” (launching AI-driven 
consumer applications that enhance their existing offerings and revenue) and “defense” (developing AI capabilities to 
counter competitive applications that could be disruptive to existing legacy applications) to counter AI disruption risk. 
Several companies are also partnering directly with leading AI platforms to drive direct traffic and monetization. Examples 
include ChatGPT in-app integrations, agentic commerce, in-app chatbot placement, and data/content licensing for model 
training.

US Business and Information Services George Tong, GS Equity Research 
• Concerns over AI-driven disintermediation have sparked a sharp de-rating of the Information Services sector since mid-2025, 
with the sector experiencing a particularly notable valuation step- down in early Feb 2026. The median NTM P/E multiple in 
our Info Services coverage has fallen from 32x in June 2025 to 20x currently as investors worry that free or cheaper AI tools 
could diminish or eliminate demand for existing Info Services offerings. However, we believe some companies in the sector 
are better positioned to withstand AI disruption than others. 
• Companies with a sustainable moat against AI are those with proprietary data, entrenched workflows with customers, scale 
and brand advantages, and/or a regulatory moat, and have made meaningful AI investments. These firms are not only 
insulated from AI ris ks but also are positioned to benefit from AI integration via  product upgrades, accelerated pricing 
increases, increased cross-selling, higher retention rates, and new business growth. From a stock perspective, the multiples 
of many of these firms  have recently contracted, making them attractive buying opportunities. T
he market may be 
overestimating the AI-related hit to these firms' organic revenue growth (with some estimates in the mid-to-high single digits) 
and we believe earnings at these firms remain stable and are not in a negative revision cycle. Upcoming earnings results that 
demonstrate beat -and-raise patterns and sustained momentum in organic revenue growth should act  as a catalyst for 
valuation upside, in our view. 
• By contrast, firms  most vulnerable to AI disruption are those that have limited proprietary content, weak integration with 
client workflows, limited scale or brand advantages, no regulatory moat, and/or haven’t invested enough in AI themselves . 
They also face potential headwinds from lower demand for white collar staffing roles due to AI automation.

AI disruption: equity sector impacts


===== Page 75 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 22 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
North American Insurance Robert Cox and team, GS Equity Research 
• Recent reports that OpenAI has  incorporated insurance services directly into ChatGPT sparked a significant selloff in 
insurance providers. We believe Private and Commercial (P&C) insurance companies will need to adapt to keep pace with 
these emerging AI tools. Certain personal lines & micro business insurance brokers are the most vulnerable to disruption as 
competitors increasingly leverage AI to simplify the purchase of lower complexity products like auto/home insurance and 
disrupt various consulting services. Shifts in distribution could also impact auto/home insurers’ customer acquisition models, 
with auto insurers also facing long- term TAM concerns from increasing autonomous vehicle (AV) penetration. Commercial 
(re)insurers are well positioned as trusted, efficient, regulated capital allocators, especially if they quickly move to embrace 
AI efficiencies. Larger insurance brokers are also well  positioned due to the data and structural moats associated with 
complex consulting and brokerage, however certain small account broking and less complex consulting could be exposed to 
AI disruption. 
• We think both insurers and brokers can achieve significant efficiency gains through AI automation. Larger market cap firms 
with big technology budgets will likely benefit first. Insurers are using AI to automate claims processing and speed up policy 
handling, while brokers aim to automate routine processes/services. First movers are likely to see near - to medium- term 
margin/growth benefits, although whether these benefits will ultimately lead to lower premiums for customers remains an 
open question. 
• The market has primarily focused on the risk of revenue disruptions from AI rather than on potential efficiency gains. While 
valuations for P&C insurers are under pressure from concerns about a softer pricing cycle, making it more difficult to isolate 
AI impacts, the market is clearly penalizing insurance brokers for potential revenue risks—a move which we think is overdone. 
Auto insurers have faced multiple contraction from AVs and could see revenue disruption from AI -
based distribution 
platforms, but we think these headwinds will ultimately be manageable for underwriters with historically strong direct 
underwriting platforms. By contrast, commercial (re)insurers are in some cases benefiting from reported AI efficiency gains—
CB has reported a ~20% headcount reduction over 3-4 years—and are seen as relatively safe from revenue disruption.

CRE Services Julien Blouin, GS Equity Research 
• We believe AI disruption concerns across CRE services businesses are significantly overstated.  The physical nature of the 
CRE ecosystem provides meaningful insulation versus digitally -native industries. Historical precedents — listings platforms, 
online property management, virtual tours, automated valuation models —show that CRE technology adoption unfolds over 
years and decades, not quarters, and most importantly these innovations improved transparency, efficiency, and productivity 
but did not structurally disintermediate CRE brokerage and service providers. 
• Transactional brokerage businesses face the most theoretical AI exposure, particularly for standardized mid-market mandates 
where AI can drive underwriting automation, OM generation, lease abstraction, and buyer matching. Yet wholesale 
disintermediation remains unlikely given the relationship -driven, localized, negotiated, and liability -bearing nature of CRE 
transactions (particularly for larger deals).  Facilities, property, project, and investment management businesses  are even 
more insulated  as they are o perationally complex, and often require on -premises workers/technicians. We believe AI 
will enhance functions like scheduling, cost control, and predictive maintenance rather than eliminate demand. 
• The valuation opportunity is compelling.  CRE services companies are benefiting from a transaction recovery that remains 
mid-cycle, with volumes still 44% below 2021– 2022 peaks and 20% below 2017– 2019 levels. Yet sector multiples have 
contracted sharply on AI fears, reverting to 2023 discounts versus the S&P Equal Weight—levels last seen when transactions 
were under extreme pressure. We view this selloff as an attractive entry point into a sector with powerful structural and 
cyclical tailwinds, supporting double-digit earnings CAGRs through 2028.


===== Page 76 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 23 
Top of Mind Issue 146 
European Financials                                                                                                                                 Oliver Carruthers and team, GS Equity Research 
• Within our European Financials coverage universe, AI disruption concerns have centered on market structure firms such as 
LSEG and DB1, though their AI exposure varies. LSEG’s stock has declined since mid-2025 amid concerns that AI-powered 
analysis could disrupt its data business.  
• More recently, focus has also turned to private markets and their exposure to software-based service business models. A 
de-rating of public software comparables off the back of AI-disruption concerns could lead to negative mark-to-market 
adjustments for portfolio companies and limit near-term monetization. That said, many private equity firms are benefitting 
from rising AI demand, including through digital infrastructure investments. And traditional asset managers have largely 
been shielded from AI disruptions with managers actively leveraging AI to boost efficiency and alleviate margin pressure as 
well as enhance efficiency across client servicing, risk management, and investment intelligence.  
• AI disruption poses greater risk for private credit managers as fund performance is more sensitive to dispersion and, unlike 
buyout funds, private credit managers cannot offset losses with investments into “winners”. We’ve seen significant 
underperformance among Alternative Asset Managers, with private credit-focused firms most impacted. Wealth managers 
and investment platforms also experienced an AI-related selloff after Altruist launched an AI-powered tax planning tool, 
which raised concerns that automated advice tools could increase competition and compress fees. However, we note that 
these tools also have the potential to enhance adviser productivity and increase efficiency for firms able to strategically 
integrate AI into their offerings.

European transport, infrastructure, and construction                                                                                  Patrick Creuset and team, GS Equity Research 
• When it comes to AI risk, the main debates in the European transport, infrastructure, and construction sector center around 
1) whether the incumbents will be disrupted by AI technological progress, and 2) the extent to which AI productivity gains 
will be deflated away.  
• We view the AI disruption risk as relatively low for the sector as incumbents benefit from large physical networks (e.g., 
sizable blue-collar workforces as well as numerous physical gateways and warehouses), have higher value-add proposition 
(e.g., end-to-end supply chain management), and benefit from network effects— all of which will be difficult for new AI-
native entrants to match. Incumbents also stand to unlock significant advantages from integrating AI technology into their 
existing operations, further supporting their resilience.  
• We are also less concerned about the prospect of AI-related productivity gains being deflated away. While some 
productivity gains will likely be passed on to customers—as has historically been the case within the industry —we expect 
the magnitude of productivity gains to be meaningfully larger than the potential yield erosion. 
• Asset-light logistics companies are particularly well-positioned to benefit from integrating AI tools into their ongoing 
digitization push. The sector’s SG&A operations have historically involved many repetitive, documentation-intensive tasks, 
including quoting, booking, carrier payment tracking, and customs clearance. We believe that further digitization and AI 
deployment will eventually enable industry players to automate some of these workflows and improve efficiency.


===== Page 77 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 24
Top of Mind Issue 146
Current Activity Indicator (CAI)
GS CAIs measure the growth signal in a broad range of weekly and monthly indicators, offering an alternative to Gross
Domestic Product (GDP). GDP is an imperfect guide to current activity: In most countries, it is only available quarterly and is
released with a substantial delay, and its initial estimates are often heavily revised. GDP also ignores important measures of real

activity, such as employment and the purchasing managers’ indexes (PMIs). All of these problems reduce the effectiveness of
GDP for investment and policy decisions. Our CAIs aim to address GDP’s shortcomings and provide a timelier read on the pace
of growth.
For more, see our CAI page and Global Economics Comment: Technical Updates to Our Global CAIs.
Dynamic Equilibrium Exchange Rates (DEER)
The GSDEER framework establishes an equilibrium (or “fair”) value of the real exchange rate based on relative productivity and

terms-of-trade differentials.
For more, see our GSDEER page, Global Economics Paper No. 227: Finding Fair Value in EM FX, 26 January 2016, and Global
Markets Analyst: A Look at Valuation Across G10 FX, 29 June 2017.
Financial Conditions Index (FCI)
GS FCIs gauge the “looseness” or “tightness” of financial conditions across the world’s major economies, incorporating
variables that directly affect spending on domestically produced goods and services. FCIs can provide valuable information

about the economic growth outlook and the direct and indirect effects of monetary policy on real economic activity.
FCIs for the G10 economies are calculated as a weighted average of a policy rate, a long-term risk-free bond yield, a corporate
credit spread, an equity price variable, and a trade-weighted exchange rate; the Euro area FCI also includes a sovereign credit
spread. The weights mirror the effects of the financial variables on real GDP growth in our models over a one-year horizon. FCIs

for emerging markets are calculated as a weighted average of a short-term interest rate, a long-term swap rate, a CDS spread,
an equity price variable, a trade-weighted exchange rate, and—in economies with large foreign- currency-denominated debt
stocks— a debt-weighted exchange rate index.
For more, see our FCI page, Global Economics Analyst: Our New G10 Financial Conditions Indices, 20 April 2017, and Global
Economics Analyst: Tracking EM Financial Conditions – Our New FCIs, 6 October 2017.

Goldman Sachs Analyst Index (GSAI)
The US GSAI is based on a monthly survey of GS equity analysts to obtain their assessments of business conditions in the
industries they follow. The results provide timely “bottom-up” information about US economic activity to supplement and cross-
check our analysis of “top-down” data. Based on analysts’ responses, we create a diffusion index for economic activity
comparable to the ISM’s indexes for activity in the manufacturing and nonmanufacturing sectors.

Macro-Data Assessment Platform (MAP)
GS MAP scores facilitate rapid interpretation of new data releases for economic indicators worldwide. MAP summarizes the
importance of a specific data release (i.e., its historical correlation with GDP) and the degree of surprise relative to the
consensus forecast. The sign on the degree of surprise characterizes underperformance with a negative number and
outperformance with a positive number. Each of these two components is ranked on a scale from 0 to 5, with the MAP score

being the product of the two, i.e., from -25 to +25. For example, a MAP score of +20 (5;+4) would indicate that the data has a
very high correlation to GDP (5) and that it came out well above consensus expectations (+4), for a total MAP value of +20.
Glossary of GS proprietary indices


===== Page 78 =====

hEl 
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 25 
Top of Mind Issue 146

Issue 145 
Americas First 
January 26, 2026  
Issue 130 
How investable is Europe? 
August 1, 2024

Special Issue 
2025: 4 themes in charts 
December 15, 2025  
Issue 129 
Gen AI: too much spend, too little benefit? 
June 25, 2024

Issue 144 
The US-China tech race 
December 4, 2025  
Issue 128 
Central bank divergence room to run? 
May 21, 2024

Issue 143 
AI: in a bubble? 
October 22, 2025  
Issue 127 
Weighing the GLP-1 market 
April 12, 2024

Issue 142 
Data (un)reliability 
September 11, 2025  
Issue 126 
Global transit & trade: in rough waters 
March 12, 2024

Issue 141 
Stablecoin summer 
August 19, 2025  
Issue 125 
2024: The year of elections 
February 1, 2024

Issue 140 
US fiscal worries: Is this time different? 
June 12, 2025  
Issue 124 
Middle East risks 
December 5, 2023

Issue 139 
Fed independence: how concerning? 
May 15, 2025  
Issue 123 
US outperformance: at a turning point? 
October 30, 2023

Issue 138 
Tariff-induced recession risk 
April 17, 2025  
Issue 122 
Commercial real estate risks 
October 9, 2023

Issue 137 
Europe’s shifting security landscape 
March 13, 2025  
Issue 121 
Corporate credit concerns 
August 10, 2023

Issue 136 
Trump tariffs: mostly talk, or big action? 
February 26, 2025  
Issue 120 
Generative AI: hype, or truly transformative? 
July 5, 2023

Issue 135 
High bond yields: here to stay? 
February 5, 2025  
Issue 119 
Daunting debt limit dynamics 
May 22, 2023

Special Issue 
2024: 4 themes in charts 
December 18, 2024  
Issue 118 
US-China: more decoupling ahead?  
May 1, 2023

Issue 134 
Will China's policy stimulus be enough? 
December 11, 2024  
Issue 117 
All about bank(panic)s  
April 3, 2023

Issue 133 
Market concentration: how big a worry? 
November 25, 2024  
Issue 116 
(Japanese) Bonds, Bonds, Bonds 
February 23, 2023

Issue 132 
Post-election economic policies 
October 21, 2024  
Issue 115  
The Bigger Worry: Growth or Inflation? 
January 27, 2023

Issue 131 
Is the Fed behind the curve? 
September 3, 2024  
Special Issue 
2022: 3 themes in charts 
December 15, 2022 
Source of photos: www.gettyimages.com.
Top of Mind archive


===== Page 79 =====

Reg AC
We, Allison Nathan, Jenny Grimberg, Ashley Rhodes, Christian Mueller-Glissmann, CFA, Ben Snider and Shamshad Ali, hereby
certify that all of the views expressed in this report accurately reflect our personal views, which have not been influenced by
considerations of the firm's business or client relationships.
We, Eric Sheridan, Alexander Blostein, CFA, Gabriela Borges, CFA, Patrick Creuset, Julien Blouin, Oliver Carruthers, CFA, Robert
Cox, Adam Hotchkiss, Matthew Martino, George K. Tong, CFA and Michael Vinci, hereby certify that all of the views expressed in

Aon Plc (Buy, $338.77), Ares Management Corp. (Buy, $117.04), Arthur J. Gallagher & Co. (Buy, $229.65), CBRE Group (Buy,
$141.19), CVC Capital Partners (Buy, €12.01), Cloudflare (Buy, $192.31), CrowdStrike (Buy, $426.16), Cushman & Wakefield Ltd.
(Buy, $13.25), DoorDash Inc. (Buy, $183.48), HubSpot Inc. (Buy, $291.47), Jones Lang LaSalle Inc. (Buy, $309.36), KKR & Co. (Buy,
$95.59), London Stock Exchange Group (Buy, 8,744p), Microsoft Corp. (Buy, $410.68), Newmark Group (Buy, $14.71), Palo Alto

Networks (Buy, $163.16), Ryan Specialty Group (Buy, $39.34), Salesforce Inc. (Buy, $201.39), ServiceNow Inc. (Buy, $120.38),
Snowflake Inc. (Buy, $177.45), Spotify Technology S.A. (Buy, $552.12), StepStone Group (Buy, $47.62), TPG Inc. (Buy, $44.96) and
Willis Towers Watson (Buy, $300.52)
Logo disclosure
Please note: Third party brands used in this report are the property of their respective owners, and are used here for informational
purposes only. The use of such brands should not be viewed as an endorsement, affiliation or sponsorship by or for Goldman

Sachs or any of its products/services.
GS Factor Profile
The Goldman Sachs Factor Profile provides investment context for a stock by comparing key attributes to the market (i.e. our
universe of rated stocks) and its sector peers. The four key attributes depicted are: Growth, Financial Returns, Multiple (e.g.
valuation) and Integrated (a composite of Growth, Financial Returns and Multiple). Growth, Financial Returns and Multiple are
calculated by using normalized ranks for specific metrics for each stock. The normalized ranks for the metrics are then averaged

and converted into percentiles for the relevant attribute. The precise calculation of each metric may vary depending on the fiscal
year, industry and region, but the standard approach is as follows:
Growth is based on a stock's forward-looking sales growth, EBITDA growth and EPS growth (for financial stocks, only EPS and
sales growth), with a higher percentile indicating a higher growth company. Financial Returns is based on a stock's forward-
looking ROE, ROCE and CROCI (for financial stocks, only ROE), with a higher percentile indicating a company with higher financial

returns. Multiple is based on a stock's forward-looking P/E, P/B, price/dividend (P/D), EV/EBITDA, EV/FCF and EV/Debt Adjusted
Cash Flow (DACF) (for financial stocks, only P/E, P/B and P/D), with a higher percentile indicating a stock trading at a higher
multiple. The Integrated percentile is calculated as the average of the Growth percentile, Financial Returns percentile and (100% -
Multiple percentile).
Financial Returns and Multiple use the Goldman Sachs analyst forecasts at the fiscal year-end at least three quarters in the future.

Growth uses inputs for the fiscal year at least seven quarters in the future compared with the year at least three quarters in the
future (on a per-share basis for all metrics).
For a more detailed description of how we calculate the GS Factor Profile, please contact your GS representative.
M&A Rank
Across our global coverage, we examine stocks using an M&A framework, considering both qualitative factors and quantitative
factors (which may vary across sectors and regions) to incorporate the potential that certain companies could be acquired. We then

assign a M&A rank as a means of scoring companies under our rated coverage from 1 to 3, with 1 representing high (30%-50%)
probability of the company becoming an acquisition target, 2 representing medium (15%-30%) probability and 3 representing low
(0%-15%) probability. For companies ranked 1 or 2, in line with our standard departmental guidelines we incorporate an M&A


===== Page 80 =====




===== Page 81 =====

offering or solicitation by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC for purchasers of securities in Canada to trade in any Canadian security.
Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC is not registered as a dealer in any jurisdiction in Canada under applicable Canadian securities laws and
generally is not permitted to trade in Canadian securities and may be prohibited from selling certain securities and products in
certain jurisdictions in Canada. If you wish to trade in any Canadian securities or other products in Canada please contact Goldman

Sachs Canada Inc., an affiliate of The Goldman Sachs Group Inc., or another registered Canadian dealer.  Hong Kong: Further
information on the securities of covered companies referred to in this research may be obtained on request from Goldman Sachs
(Asia) L.L.C.  India: Further information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research may be obtained from
Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited, Research Analyst - SEBI Registration Number INH000001493, 10th Floor, Ascent-

Worli, Sudam Kalu Ahire Marg, Worli, Mumbai-400 025, India, Corporate Identity Number U74140MH2006FTC160634, Phone +91
22 6616 9000, Fax +91 22 6616 9001. Goldman Sachs may beneficially own 1% or more of the securities (as such term is defined
in clause 2 (h) the Indian Securities Contracts (Regulation) Act, 1956) of the subject company or companies referred to in this
research report. Investment in securities market are subject to market risks. Read all the related documents carefully before

investing. Registration granted by SEBI and certification from NISM in no way guarantee performance of the intermediary or
provide any assurance of returns to investors. Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private Limited compliance officer and investor
grievance contact details can be found at: https://www.goldmansachs.com/worldwide/india/documents/Grievance-Redressal-and-
Escalation-Matrix.pdf, and a copy of the annual audit compliance report can be found at this

link: https://publishing.gs.com/content/site/india-annual-compliance-report.html.  Japan: See below.  Korea: This research, and any
access to it, is intended only for "professional investors" within the meaning of the Financial Services and Capital Markets Act,
unless otherwise agreed by Goldman Sachs. Further information on the subject company or companies referred to in this research
may be obtained from Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch.  New Zealand: Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited and its

the Russian Federation are not advertising as defined in the Russian legislation, but are information and analysis not having product
promotion as their main purpose and do not provide appraisal within the meaning of the Russian legislation on appraisal activity.
Research reports do not constitute a personalized investment recommendation as defined in Russian laws and regulations, are not
addressed to a specific client, and are prepared without analyzing the financial circumstances, investment profiles or risk profiles of

clients. Goldman Sachs assumes no responsibility for any investment decisions that may be taken by a client or any other person
based on this research report.  Singapore: Goldman Sachs (Singapore) Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W), which is regulated
by the Monetary Authority of Singapore, accepts legal responsibility for this research, and should be contacted with respect to any
matters arising from, or in connection with, this research.  Taiwan: This material is for reference only and must not be reprinted

without permission. Investors should carefully consider their own investment risk. Investment results are the responsibility of the
individual investor.  United Kingdom: Persons who would be categorized as retail clients in the United Kingdom, as such term is
defined in the rules of the Financial Conduct Authority, should read this research in conjunction with prior Goldman Sachs research
on the covered companies referred to herein and should refer to the risk warnings that have been sent to them by Goldman Sachs

International. A copy of these risks warnings, and a glossary of certain financial terms used in this report, are available from
Goldman Sachs International on request.
European Union and United Kingdom: Disclosure information in relation to Article 6 (2) of the European Commission Delegated
Regulation (EU) (2016/958) supplementing Regulation (EU) No 596/2014 of the European Parliament and of the Council (including
as that Delegated Regulation is implemented into United Kingdom domestic law and regulation following the United Kingdom’s

Connection with Investment Research.
Japan: Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd. is a Financial Instrument Dealer registered with the Kanto Financial Bureau under
registration number Kinsho 69, and a member of Japan Securities Dealers Association, Financial Futures Association of Japan Type
II Financial Instruments Firms Association, The Investment Trusts Association, Japan, and Japan Investment Advisers Association.
Sales and purchase of equities are subject to commission pre-determined with clients plus consumption tax. See company-specific


===== Page 82 =====

the Japanese Securities Finance Company.
Ratings, coverage universe and related definitions
Buy (B), Neutral (N), Sell (S) Analysts recommend stocks as Buys or Sells for inclusion on various regional Investment Lists.
Being assigned a Buy or Sell on an Investment List is determined by a stock's total return potential relative to its coverage
universe. Any stock not assigned as a Buy or a Sell on an Investment List with an active rating (i.e., a stock that is not Rating

Suspended, Not Rated, Early-Stage Biotech, Coverage Suspended or Not Covered), is deemed Neutral. Each region manages
Regional Conviction Lists, which are selected from Buy rated stocks on the respective region's Investment Lists and represent
investment recommendations focused on the size of the total return potential and/or the likelihood of the realization of the return
across their respective areas of coverage. The addition or removal of stocks from such Conviction Lists are managed by the

Investment Review Committee or other designated committee in each respective region and do not represent a change in the
analysts’ investment rating for such stocks.
Total return potential represents the upside or downside differential between the current share price and the price target,
including all paid or anticipated dividends, expected during the time horizon associated with the price target. Price targets are
required for all covered stocks. The total return potential, price target and associated time horizon are stated in each report adding

or reiterating an Investment List membership.
Coverage Universe: A list of all stocks in each coverage universe is available by primary analyst, stock and coverage universe
at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html.
Not Rated (NR). The investment rating, target price and earnings estimates (where relevant) are removed pursuant to Goldman
Sachs policy when Goldman Sachs is acting in an advisory capacity in a merger or in a strategic transaction involving this company,

when there are legal, regulatory or policy constraints due to Goldman Sachs’ involvement in a transaction, and in certain other
circumstances. Early-Stage Biotech (ES). An investment rating and a target price are not assigned pursuant to Goldman Sachs
policy when this company neither has a drug, treatment or medical device that has passed a Phase II clinical trial nor a license to
distribute a post-Phase II drug, treatment or medical device.  Rating Suspended (RS). Goldman Sachs Research has suspended

the investment rating and price target for this stock, because there is not a sufficient fundamental basis for determining an
investment rating or target price. The previous investment rating and target price, if any, are no longer in effect for this stock and
should not be relied upon.  Coverage Suspended (CS). Goldman Sachs has suspended coverage of this company.  Not
Covered (NC). Goldman Sachs does not cover this company.
Global product; distributing entities

Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research produces and distributes research products for clients of Goldman Sachs on a global
basis. Analysts based in Goldman Sachs offices around the world produce research on industries and companies, and research on
macroeconomics, currencies, commodities and portfolio strategy. This research is disseminated in Australia by Goldman Sachs
Australia Pty Ltd (ABN 21 006 797 897); in Brazil by Goldman Sachs do Brasil Corretora de Títulos e Valores Mobiliários S.A.; Public

Communication Channel Goldman Sachs Brazil: 0800 727 5764 and / or contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Available Weekdays
(except holidays), from 9am to 6pm. Canal de Comunicação com o Público Goldman Sachs Brasil: 0800 727 5764 e/ou
contatogoldmanbrasil@gs.com. Horário de funcionamento: segunda-feira à sexta-feira (exceto feriados), das 9h às 18h; in Canada
by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC; in Hong Kong by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C.; in India by Goldman Sachs (India) Securities Private

Ltd.; in Japan by Goldman Sachs Japan Co., Ltd.; in the Republic of Korea by Goldman Sachs (Asia) L.L.C., Seoul Branch; in New
Zealand by Goldman Sachs New Zealand Limited; in Russia by OOO Goldman Sachs; in Singapore by Goldman Sachs (Singapore)
Pte. (Company Number: 198602165W); and in the United States of America by Goldman Sachs & Co. LLC. Goldman Sachs
International has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.

Conduct Authority (“FCA”) and the PRA, has approved this research in connection with its distribution in the United Kingdom.
European Economic Area: Goldman Sachs Bank Europe SE (“GSBE”) is a credit institution incorporated in Germany and, within
the Single Supervisory Mechanism, subject to direct prudential supervision by the European Central Bank and in other respects
supervised by German Federal Financial Supervisory Authority (Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht, BaFin) and

information that we consider reliable, but we do not represent it is accurate or complete, and it should not be relied on as such.


===== Page 83 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 30
Top of Mind Issue 146
The information, opinions, estimates and forecasts contained herein are as of the date hereof and are subject to change without
prior notification. We seek to update our research as appropriate, but various regulations may prevent us from doing so. Other than
certain industry reports published on a periodic basis, the large majority of reports are published at irregular intervals as appropriate

Our salespeople, traders, and other professionals may provide oral or written market commentary or trading strategies to our
clients and principal trading desks that reflect opinions that are contrary to the opinions expressed in this research. Our asset
management area, principal trading desks and investing businesses may make investment decisions that are inconsistent with the
recommendations or views expressed in this research.
The analysts named in this report may have from time to time discussed with our clients, including Goldman Sachs salespersons

and traders, or may discuss in this report, trading strategies that reference catalysts or events that may have a near-term impact on
the market price of the equity securities discussed in this report, which impact may be directionally counter to the analyst's
published price target expectations for such stocks. Any such trading strategies are distinct from and do not affect the analyst's
fundamental equity rating for such stocks, which rating reflects a stock's return potential relative to its coverage universe as

described herein.
We and our affiliates, officers, directors, and employees will from time to time have long or short positions in, act as principal in,
and buy or sell, the securities or derivatives, if any, referred to in this research, unless otherwise prohibited by regulation or
Goldman Sachs policy.
The views attributed to third party presenters at Goldman Sachs arranged conferences, including individuals from other parts of
Goldman Sachs, do not necessarily reflect those of Global Investment Research and are not an official view of Goldman Sachs.

Any third party referenced herein, including any salespeople, traders and other professionals or members of their household, may
have positions in the products mentioned that are inconsistent with the views expressed by analysts named in this report.
This research is focused on investment themes across markets, industries and sectors. It does not attempt to distinguish between
the prospects or performance of, or provide analysis of, individual companies within any industry or sector we describe.

Any trading recommendation in this research relating to an equity or credit security or securities within an industry or sector is
reflective of the investment theme being discussed and is not a recommendation of any such security in isolation.
This research is not an offer to sell or the solicitation of an offer to buy any security in any jurisdiction where such an offer or
solicitation would be illegal. It does not constitute a personal recommendation or take into account the particular investment

future performance, future returns are not guaranteed, and a loss of original capital may occur. Fluctuations in exchange rates could
have adverse effects on the value or price of, or income derived from, certain investments.
Certain transactions, including those involving futures, options, and other derivatives, give rise to substantial risk and are not
suitable for all investors. Investors should review current options and futures disclosure documents which are available from

strategies calling for multiple purchase and sales of options such as spreads. Supporting documentation will be supplied upon
request.
Differing Levels of Service provided by Global Investment Research: The level and types of services provided to you by
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research may vary as compared to that provided to internal and other external clients of GS,
depending on various factors including your individual preferences as to the frequency and manner of receiving communication,

your risk profile and investment focus and perspective (e.g., marketwide, sector specific, long term, short term), the size and scope
of your overall client relationship with GS, and legal and regulatory constraints. As an example, certain clients may request to
receive notifications when research on specific securities is published, and certain clients may request that specific data underlying
analysts’ fundamental analysis available on our internal client websites be delivered to them electronically through data feeds or

otherwise. No change to an analyst’s fundamental research views (e.g., ratings, price targets, or material changes to earnings
estimates for equity securities), will be communicated to any client prior to inclusion of such information in a research report


===== Page 84 =====

hEl
Goldman Sachs Global Investment Research 31
Top of Mind Issue 146
broadly disseminated through electronic publication to our internal client websites or through other means, as necessary, to all
clients who are entitled to receive such reports.
All research reports are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client
websites. Not all research content is redistributed to our clients or available to third-party aggregators, nor is Goldman Sachs

responsible for the redistribution of our research by third party aggregators. For research, models or other data related to one or
more securities, markets or asset classes (including related services) that may be available to you, please contact your GS
representative or go to https://research.gs.com.
Disclosure information is also available at https://www.gs.com/research/hedge.html or from Research Compliance, 200 West
Street, New York, NY 10282.

© 2026 Goldman Sachs.
You are permitted to store, display, analyze, modify, reformat, and print the information made available to you via this service only
for your own use. You may not resell or reverse engineer this information to calculate or develop any index for disclosure and/or
marketing or create any other derivative works or commercial product(s), data or offering(s) without the express written consent of
Goldman Sachs. You are not permitted to publish, transmit, or otherwise reproduce this information, in whole or in part, in any

format to any third party without the express written consent of Goldman Sachs. This foregoing restriction includes, without
limitation, using, extracting, downloading or retrieving this information, in whole or in part, to train or finetune a machine learning or
artificial intelligence system, or to provide or reproduce this information, in whole or in part, as a prompt or input to any such
system.
