===== Page 1 =====

Article | 15 May 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  15 May 2026
THINK Ahead: Politics meets the bond
market (again…)
Not for the first time, it s Britain leading the way in what has been a grim
week for the global bond market. Political drama is back, interest rate
expectations are rising. But for all the noise, James Smith argues there
are limits on how much politics is likely to drive central banks this year.
Read on as he and the team look ahead to another busy week in

markets
The UK's Mayor of Manchester Andy Burnham has his sights set on Downing Street
Politics meets the bond market (again…)
Let’s face it: nobody does political drama quite like Britain. In a competitive field of big global
stories – a global energy crisis, a meeting of two superpowers – the limelight has still somehow
found its way back to London.
In case you’re struggling to keep up (and who can blame you), the ruling Labour Party is in the
midst of a leadership struggle. Prime Minister Keir Starmer, though still in office, is under

existential pressure after poor local election results. A leadership contest looks increasingly
inevitable. And if you believe the betting markets, Manchester Mayor Andy Burnham is the
man to beat.


===== Page 2 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 2
All of this has unfolded against the backdrop of a grim week for global bond markets. The UK’s
10‑year yield rose by more than a quarter of a percentage point. But Britain is hardly alone.
US yields are up around 20bp this week, while Germany’s are higher by roughly 13bp.
That’s an important reminder. For all the noise coming out of Westminster, it is still oil prices –
and the outlook for global central banks – that are doing the heavy lifting for interest rates,

both at the short and long end.
Of course, politics could matter more from here. There is certainly scope for gilt yields to rise
further on domestic drama. But in practice, will politics really be a central driver of central bank
decisions this year?
When it comes to Britain, I think it’s important to keep things in proportion.
Yes, the political centre of gravity is likely to shift left. And yes, there is pressure to adapt the
fiscal rules. But politicians across the spectrum are presumably acutely aware there are limits,

with the shadow of the 2022 “mini‑budget” crisis still hanging over Westminster.
Where leadership hopefuls are talking about higher borrowing, the emphasis is
overwhelmingly on investment – particularly capital‑intensive areas such as defence and
social housing. In practice, we suspect any additional borrowing, if it materialises, is unlikely to
exceed £15–20bn per year.
That is not trivial. And investors would no doubt start to question the UK’s longer‑term

commitment to fiscal restraint, particularly as we edge closer to what could be a challenging
2029 general election.
But that is not quite the question facing the Bank of England.
The Bank needs to judge whether a modest fiscal pivot of this kind would materially boost
inflation over a two‑year horizon. And if it’s going to be centred on investment, it’s worth
recalling that Britain’s recent track record of actually building things is… not great.

Private housebuilding is almost 20% below its pre‑Covid level. Firms consistently cite planning
constraints and regulation as key bottlenecks. Britain’s infrastructure delivery record is no
more inspiring.
That suggests any fiscal boost is unlikely to move the dial much for the Bank of England in the
near term, particularly when you remember the next Budget isn’t due until late Autumn. And
with investment, there is always the counter‑question of how much it lifts the supply side of

the economy and productivity, offsetting any inflationary impulse.
If you want a cautionary tale, look at Germany. Optimism last spring around vast defence and
infrastructure spending faded quickly as it became clear that this was not something that


===== Page 3 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 3
would happen overnight.
A year on, there are some signs of progress. Defence spending, for example, began to pick up
late last year. Carsten Brzeski argues the impulse is now “real”, with effects increasingly likely
to show through this year and next – energy crisis notwithstanding.
Which brings us neatly back to energy.
When it comes to politics and its relationship with central banks, the far bigger question is

whether governments across Europe are forced into much larger support packages than we
have seen so far. The fuel tax cuts announced in various countries are small beer compared
with the 2–3% of GDP packages rolled out in 2022. That, in no small part, was why central
banks across Europe were forced into steep rate hikes four years ago.
Whether similar pressure builds again this time will depend, above all, on where energy prices
go next. You can find our scenarios in the latest ING Monthly, or listen back to Warren

Patterson walking through his outlook in our recent webinar.
Two points from that discussion stand out.
First, even if the war were to end tomorrow, energy prices may not fall as far as many expect.
Significant drawdowns in oil inventories are likely to keep upward pressure on prices for some
time yet.
Second, natural gas prices currently look too low. There is meaningful upside risk if disruptions
persist into the third quarter, particularly as competition intensifies between Asian and

European buyers for LNG.
It’s a reminder that, for all the political noise, its energy prices will remain the dominant force
for central banks. It’s why we’re expecting rate hikes from the Bank of England and European
Central Bank in June, and why we no longer expect a Federal Reserve rate cut until December.
James Smith


===== Page 4 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 4
Three scenarios for global energy markets
Source: ING
THINK Ahead in developed markets
United States  (James Knightley)
Housing starts (Thu): It is a quiet week for US data, with a focus on housing numbers.
High prices and elevated mortgage rates are an obvious headwind that is hurting
affordability and depressing activity. We will also have the FOMC minutes, which will
underscore the hawkish shift seen in April when three members wanted more neutral

language on where interest rates may head.
United Kingdom (James Smith)
Inflation (Wed): Headline inflation is actually likely to dip in April's data, due next week.
That might sound strange as energy prices surge. But the timing of Easter is set to
temporarily push down on CPI. So too will the fact that many of last year's
administrative/regulatory price hikes weren't repeated at the start of this financial year
– or not to the same extent. We're also looking for signs that lower wage growth and

greater economic slack results in more muted annual price hikes across the service
sector. If we're right, that should make some Bank of England officials more relaxed
about the risk of second-round effects from the current energy crisis.
THINK Ahead in Central and Eastern Europe
Poland (Adam Antoniak)
Industry (Thu): Activity in industry is on a roller-coaster ride. Following subdued output
in the first two months due to harsh weather, industry rebounded sharply in March. Still,

the general trend is far from positive. Industry has been nearly stagnant in recent years
and weak external demand along with mounting competitive pressure from China poses
a challenge for some sectors. At the same time, the Middle East conflict and unfolding


===== Page 5 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 5
energy crisis imposed yet another layer of risks and uncertainty. We expect the
recovery in manufacturing to lose momentum ahead, even if short-term performance
might be boosted by stockpiling. Upward pressure from energy commodities probably
lifted PPI from over two-year-long deflation.
Labour market (Thu): Wage growth continues its downward trend as the situation
normalises after double-digit growth in 2023-24. In April, the lower annual dynamic was

also probably facilitated by a high reference base due to high growth in mining.
Employment in enterprises continues shrinking at a pace nearing 1% year-on-year as
declining labour supply is facing somewhat softer demand.
Hungary  (Peter Virovacz)
Wages (Wed): It is hard to imagine anything stealing the limelight from the political
headlines in Hungary nowadays. However, the ongoing issue of high wage growth
would certainly exacerbate the complicated situation of the National Bank of Hungary.

Strong real wage growth and rising consumer confidence could increase pipeline price
pressure on top of the energy price shock. Meanwhile, the movement of the forint
towards territory that would prompt the central bank to consider a dovish pivot sooner
than expected is adding spice to the situation.
Czech Republic (David Havrlant)
PPI (Wed): Higher oil and natural gas prices continued to pass through to producer
pricing, when annual price dynamics in industry likely switched to positive territory in

April, following more than a year of annual declines. This will further foster pressures on
consumer prices, where goods price gains quickened in April.
Key events in developed markets next week


===== Page 6 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 6
Source: Refinitiv, ING
Key events in EMEA next week
Source: Refinitiv, ING


===== Page 7 =====

This publication has been prepared by the Economic and Financial Analysis Division of ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) solely for
information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of


===== Page 8 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 8
States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.


===== Page 9 =====

Article | 15 May 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  15 May 2026   FX   RATES   UNITED KINGDOM
UK asset markets starting to feel the
heat
UK markets were under pressure on Friday as the leadership battle
within the ruling Labour Party starts to open up. 30-year UK gilt yields
have risen to levels last seen in early 1998 and independent sterling
weakness is really starting to come through. A long hot summer for UK
politics warns of more to come

What’s happening
UK markets were under pressure on Friday as the leadership battle within the ruling Labour
Party starts to open up.
To recap, this week’s turmoil follows a very weak, but not totally unsurprising, set of local
election results for Labour earlier this month. With Nigel Farage’s Reform Party dominating the
polls, and the Green Party increasingly dividing Labour’s share of the vote, there’s growing
pressure on the party to change direction as it looks ahead to the next General Election in

three years’ time.
So far, formally at least, no leadership contest has been triggered. Keir Starmer remains both


===== Page 10 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 2
Labour leader and prime minister. But it is only a matter of time.
Wes Streeting, until this week the Health Secretary, has resigned and is expected to stand,
though it remains unclear whether he has support from the 81 Labour MPs required to trigger
a contest. Comments from Streeting today suggest he has acknowledged a leadership battle
will need to wait for the summer.
That’s because Andy Burnham, Mayor of Manchester and favourite to become Labour leader,

needs to be an MP in Westminster to be eligible to compete in a leadership contest. He has
announced he’ll be standing in Makerfield, a newly-vacated seat in the north of England, in a
by-election that’s likely to take place in the second half of June.
That in itself is no easy feat. Polls suggest that, in the absence of Burnham, Reform would win
comfortably in Makerfield. Farage’s party dominated the local elections in the area. Burnham
will be banking on his local popularity to get him elected.

Assuming he does, that opens up a leadership contest that's likely to take place through the
summer, with the results sewn up before the Labour Party conference in late September.
What gilt markets are watching
Until now, politics has not been the primary driver of gilt yields, which suggests there’s still
plenty of upside risk.
The Bank of England policy path has been lifted by higher oil prices over recent weeks. And we
also have the Bank’s Quantitative Tightening flooding the market with gilt supply at a pace of

£70bn per year. Higher US Treasury yields, amidst very healthy US market sentiment, is spilling
over to gilt yields, too.
But as of Friday, there are signs that political uncertainty is starting to fuel those Bank of
England rate hike expectations, too. Two rate hikes are priced by November and a third by
March 2027. And even more interestingly, markets are not pricing in subsequent rate cuts over
a two- or three-year horizon. Perceptions of the neutral rate – the level neither expansionary

nor restrictive for the economy – have been repriced higher.
That tells us investors are most focused on the impact a leadership contest might have on
Britain’s fiscal trajectory, gilt issuance over the next couple of years, and its interplay with
inflation. Burnham has said there’s a case for exempting defence spending from the main
fiscal rules, implying higher borrowing. Other Labour figures have flirted with extending the
timeline of when the fiscal rules need to be met – which again makes it easier to boost

borrowing in the near-term.
The biggest risk here is that investors begin to question the UK’s longer-term fiscal discipline.
Gilt markets rely on foreign investors and any signs that fiscal dynamics risk turning


===== Page 11 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 3
unsustainable could quickly turn sentiment. We’ve already seen that the uncertainty
around the Autumn Budget last November added a risk premium of around 25bp to 10Y gilts.
Right now, we estimate the premium to be around 10bp, higher than a few weeks ago, but still
less than around November’s budget.
Until we get a better understanding around the fiscal path forward, political risk premium is

likely to keep rising. A rise towards 5.30% is quite possible in the near term.
The reality might be different
With bond markets already under pressure, we suspect all leadership candidates will come
until intense pressure to rule out big changes to the fiscal rules over the next few weeks. The
memories of the 2022 mini-budget crisis haven’t gone away.
We’d also note that fiscal changes are unlikely before the Autumn Budget. And until then, the
Bank of England can only react to what is existing government policy. That suggests the

leadership drama is unlikely to drastically alter the BoE’s rate hiking path this summer.
Beyond politics, we also think Bank of England rate hike expectations look overblown. We
expect one rate hike this year, but more importantly perhaps, a return to rate cuts in 2027.
Once the near-term political noise has blown over, the direction for gilt yields is likely to be
downwards across the medium term. We’re forecasting the 10-year bond yield down to 4.5%

through the middle of next year.
EUR/GBP versus 10-year gilt-bund spread
Source: Refinitiv, ING
Sterling is dragged into the sell-off
What has been noticeable over the last week is that sterling has finally been dragged into this
political crisis. Up until recently, traded EUR/GBP volatility had been exceptionally low, near 4%,
and the FX option market's view over its direction had not really changed much at all over the


===== Page 12 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 4
last year. Now participants in the FX options market are prepared to pay 1.1% extra for the
right to buy over the right to sell EUR/GBP over the next three months. That is virtually
matching last year's 'Liberation Day' highs, when global equity markets were hit hard and the
growth-sensitive pound fell 5% against the euro.
Behind that recent stability in the pound might have been the BoE's relatively high policy rate

of 3.75% (helpful in a carry-seeking environment) and perhaps ongoing interest from M&A
activity. Year-to-date pending and completed target acquisitions of UK companies are up over
100% this year, compared to around 20% for Europe as a whole.
Yet the focus now shifts to the long, hot summer of the Labour leadership crisis and the
question is how far sterling could fall if international investors really turned bearish on the
pound. Over the years, we have found our Financial Fair Value model as a useful vehicle to

evaluate the size of risk premium that could emerge in EUR/GBP. The model looks at where
EUR/GBP is actually trading versus where it might be trading were typical relationships with
short-term rate differentials and equity performance to hold.
By our current reckoning, EUR/GBP is currently trading around 1% above fair value. As our
chart below shows, EUR/GBP can trade as much as 5% over fair value in extreme conditions –
such as in August 2019 when it looked like the UK would be leaving the EU without a deal. An

extra 4% on EUR/GBP today warns that 0.90 is not out of the question this summer for
EUR/GBP. For reference, the FX options market now attaches a 25% probability to EUR/GBP
trading to 0.90 within the next three months.
Our baseline is for a slightly more modest advance in EUR/GBP to 0.88/89 in late summer – but
the risks are clearly skewed to the upside.
EUR/GBP Financial Fair Value model
Source: ING calculations


===== Page 13 =====

information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to
purchase or sell any financial instrument. Reasonable care has been taken to ensure that this publication is not untrue or

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.


===== Page 14 =====

Article | 15 May 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  15 May 2026   COMMODITIES, FOOD & AGRI   ENERGY
Sitting, waiting, wishing… for energy
flows to resume
Energy markets remain extremely sensitive to developments in the
Middle East, showing the significance of the supply disruptions we are
witnessing. However, there have been several factors that have helped
to take some pressure off prices
With no imminent peace deal in sight, stalled Hormuz flows continue to hold Brent above $100/bbl

Falling Chinese imports and rising US exports offer relief to oil
markets
It has been another volatile month in energy markets, with oil prices being whipsawed by Iran-
related headlines. Cold water has been thrown over optimism for an imminent peace deal,
after President Trump rejected Iran’s counterproposal peace plan. And as a result, any hopes
for a quick resumption in energy flows through the Strait of Hormuz have also faded, which
has seen Brent trade convincingly back above $100/bbl.

However, with the oil market facing a supply disruption of around 13m b/d, one may be
surprised that we are not seeing much higher prices. There is an element of the market still
clinging to some optimism that energy flows may start picking up. However, there are some
fundamental factors that have also helped. Chinese oil imports have fallen significantly, while


===== Page 15 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 2
US oil exports hit record levels consistently in April, which has helped to take some of the
upward pressure off the market. But these are temporary solutions. China will be relying on
inventory as imports fall, while similarly the growth in US exports is fed by inventory rather
than supply growth.
Another element which has contained the market is that we have already started to see
demand destruction in the oil market. Crude oil prices have not had to go as high as many

would imagine to drive this decline in demand. This can be largely attributed to the relative
strength seen in refined product prices (gasoline, diesel, jet fuel), reflected by the widening in
refined product margins. The significant strength in refined product prices has meant that
crude oil prices have not had to go as high to ensure demand destruction.
While there is still plenty of uncertainty over how the situation plays out, we are assuming

some recovery in oil flows in the remainder of the second quarter, allowing for nearer to
normal flows in the third quarter. Under this scenario, Brent averages $104/bbl in 2Q26 and
US$92/bbl in 4Q26. Clearly, though, every day that goes by without a resolution pushes the
market towards a much more aggressive scenario.
Chinese oil imports fall while US oil exports surge amid Persian
Gulf supply disruptions
Source: China Customs, EIA, ING Research

Demand destruction keeps the gas market in check… for now
While European gas prices are trading above pre-Iran war levels, they have come off
significantly from their peak following the start of the war. We believe that gas markets are
underpricing the scale of the supply disruption. The gas market has less of a buffer to weather
supply shocks, while there is little in the way of alternative routes for Persian Gulf LNG to move
to its destination, other than going through the Strait of Hormuz. While ship tracking data

shows that Qatar has shipped its first two LNG cargoes since the start of the war, this falls far
short of normal flows.
There is not enough slack in the LNG market to offset these supply losses, so the market will
have to rely on inventory and demand destruction to try to balance, which is what we have
been seeing. In Asia, gas-to-coal switching is occurring within the power sector, while industrial


===== Page 16 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 3
demand is also coming under pressure. Meanwhile, relying on inventories means that buyers
will have to come back to the market at a later stage to restock. The big upside risk for the
market is if this restocking has to happen before energy flows through the Strait of Hormuz
resume.
If we see Asian buyers coming into the spot LNG market to refill inventory/offset disrupted
contracted volumes, this will increase competition between Europe and Asia for cargoes, which

would push prices higher.
Gas storage in the EU is relatively tight, at 35% full compared to a five-year average of 48%.
This will make the job of refilling storage tougher, especially as the TTF forward curve –
currently in backwardation – does not incentivise storage. More flexibility in EU storage targets
helps to take some pressure off the market heading into the 2026/27 winter. However, going
into the winter with 75% full storage (which is the minimum allowed under extreme

This publication has been prepared by the Economic and Financial Analysis Division of ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) solely for
information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.


===== Page 17 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 15 May 2026 4
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.


===== Page 18 =====

Article | 13 May 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  13 May 2026   BELGIUM
Energy shock drives broader inflation in
Belgium - a warning sign for Europe
April’s inflation jump in Belgium is no longer “just energy”. It’s starting to
look broader. If this were to be seen across the eurozone, the European
Central Bank would need to act or risk falling behind the curve again
2022 all over again?
For a central bank, a stagflation shock is a policy nightmare. Hiking rates won’t lower oil prices,

so it barely touches the root cause of inflation. Worse, higher rates would hit demand that is
already squeezed by lost purchasing power. Yet if demand holds up, firms can pass costs on,
and inflation broadens. That’s exactly what happened in 2021–2022: what looked like a
temporary energy spike became the strongest inflation surge since the 1970s, helped by
post‑Covid pent‑up demand. The question is: are we heading down that path again?
A quick, sharp shock

Central banks, therefore, need to track prices closely to see whether the energy shock stays
contained, or turns into a broader inflation wave. In Belgium, early signs of spillover are
starting to stack up.


===== Page 19 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 2
The initial jump in energy prices has been striking. The chart below compares recent episodes
of oil shocks (here: at least +10% year‑on‑year in euro terms). It is rare to see oil rise this
sharply and this quickly. As a consequence, Belgium’s energy inflation swung from
around −8% in January to above +12% in April.
This surge pushed Belgian headline inflation from 1.65% in March to 4% in April. Still, a broader

inflation wave is not guaranteed. A violent energy shock can also curb consumption enough to
limit pass‑through. To judge the risk, we need to look beyond headline figures.
Oil prices: the sharpest rise in 20 years
(oil price in euros during oil shocks; start of shock = 100)
Source: LSEG Datastream. Note : An oil shock is defined here as an increase of at least 10% in the price of oil
in euros.
Belgium: signs of spillover
Belgium’s consumer price index tracks roughly 215 categories of goods and services, each

weighted by its share in household spending.
To see whether the shock is spreading, we can examine how prices move across those 215
items. In Belgium, the distribution is already shifting in a worrying direction:
In a typical month, the price of 46% of items rises by at least 2%. That share was 39%
early this year, but jumped to 51% in April.
On a yearly basis, 24% of items usually run above 4% inflation. The share moved from
21% at the start of the year to 27% by April.

Most telling: the share of items whose inflation rose versus the previous month.
Historically, it averages 43%. It fell to 27% early this year, as a clear sign of inflation
normalisation, then surged to 62% in April, a level rarely seen (chart below). During the
last inflation wave, this metric led headline inflation (62% in Oct 2021; peak 73% in Jun
2022).


===== Page 20 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 3
Low inflation early in the year made April’s jump look even sharper. But it is becoming harder
to argue that this is “just” energy. If April’s pattern persists, and especially if it spreads across
the euro area, the ECB’s lesson from 2022 is clear: move early, or risk falling behind the curve
again.
Share of items whose inflation increased month to month,
across oil shocks
Source: Statbel. Computation: ING

Competitiveness at stake
In Belgium, inflation quickly feeds into competitiveness and public finances. Automatic
indexation links wages and many benefits to prices, so inflation shocks rapidly lift labour costs
and government spending. This renewed inflation will trigger nominal wage increases that
were not priced in at the start of the year. Because neighbouring countries adjust more slowly,
Belgium risks a short‑term competitiveness hit.
That said, the government had planned to tweak indexation from July. For a limited period,

pay above the median wage (€4,000 gross) and benefits/pensions above €2,000 would no
longer be fully indexed beyond those thresholds. The proposal satisfies neither workers, who
would lose purchasing power, nor employers, who will face extra social contributions in
exchange for the capped indexation system.
Unions and employers negotiated an alternative: keep automatic indexation, but smooth its
timing, so wage costs adjust more gradually and competitiveness shocks are less abrupt.

Despite the difficult social climate, the government has so far rejected this historic deal,
arguing it would cost the public finances more in the short run than its own plan.
The timing of this new energy shock could hardly be worse: the price shock intensifies the
debate over automatic indexation for most incomes, and raises the stakes for business
competitiveness.


===== Page 21 =====

This publication has been prepared by the Economic and Financial Analysis Division of ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) solely for
information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.


===== Page 22 =====

Article | 13 May 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  13 May 2026   ENERGY   TRANSPORT & LOGISTICS   SUSTAINABILITY
Hormuz oil shock tilts shipping towards
alternative fuels
The current oil price shock is making alternative fuels more cost
competitive in the shipping sector. LNG benefits the most,
becoming even more attractive compared to conventional bunker fuels.
Methanol is also becoming more viable, strengthening the case for

methanol-ready vessels. Still, the emissions benefits remain limited
Hormuz disruption has disrupted oil supply and pushed shipping fuel prices higher
Alternative fuels more attractive now as oil shoots higher
The Middle East conflict and blockade of the Strait of Hormuz have disrupted oil supply and
pushed shipping fuel prices, like marine gas oil (MGO), sharply higher. In this environment, fuel
strategy is no longer just about cost, but also about securing supply and managing price risks.

At the same time, higher prices and greater uncertainty are shifting the relative economics of
alternative fuels, even as regulatory progress has slowed with the delayed introduction of a
global carbon price under the IMO’s Net Zero Framework.


===== Page 23 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 2
Prices for Marine Gas Oil spiked due to the closure of the
Strait of Hormuz
MGO bunker prices in Rotterdam in $ per tonne; we’ll analyse two scenarios
Source: ING Research based on Refinitiv
Our modelling shows how the costs and economics of renewable fuels of non-biological origin
(RFNBOs) – also called synthetic or e-fuels – change in a high oil price scenario, from a
Northwest European perspective. The Middle East war has squeezed the supply of oil and oil

products. LNG is similarly affected, but less so, as more capacity is coming online, and natural
gas continues to be supplied through regional production and pipelines.
Our analysis translates the current geopolitical risk into a simple message for shipowners and
cargo owners: when oil products spike and gas rises less, the relative economics of LNG and (to
a lesser degree) methanol and even ammonia improve quickly, even if the absolute cost of all

energy carriers rises.
Decarbonisation requires shift to lower carbon fuels
While geopolitical tensions do not alter the fundamental science behind decarbonisation, and
hence emissions, they do influence the economics of the business case for different fuels.
Traditional marine fuels such as marine gas oil (MGO) and very low sulphur fuel oil (VLSFO)
currently generate approximately 1,900 kg of CO2 per deadweight tonne for every 1,000
kilometres sailed. This carbon footprint can be lowered by transitioning to alternatives like LNG

or synthetic fuels, like methanol and ammonia. However, meaningful climate benefits are
achieved only when vessels use the green or blue variants of these synthetic fuels. Just
switching to grey methanol or ammonia would only worsen the footprint to 2,500 or even
4,000 kg of CO2.


===== Page 24 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 3
LNG and blue and green versions of synthetic fuels can reduce
carbon emissions from shipping
Indicative well to wake emissions for different shipping fuels in kilograms CO2 per deadweight
tonnage per 1,000 kilometres (kgCO2/DWT/1,000km)
Source: ING Research
See the end of the article for a detailed explanation of the model and its
underlying assumptions. In this analysis, the “colour” reflects the pathway

used to produce hydrogen: grey hydrogen is derived from unabated natural
gas; blue hydrogen combines natural gas with carbon capture and storage
(CCS); and green hydrogen is produced with electrolysers powered by
low‑carbon electricity. A key nuance is that methanol molecules inherently
contain carbon. As a result, combustion always releases CO₂, regardless of the
production pathway. Even green methanol therefore leads to residual
emissions at the point of use. In addition, our modelling assumes that the

carbon input for methanol production is sourced from natural gas, which
reflects current industry practice in Europe. We therefore do not account for
potential negative emissions that could arise from alternative carbon sources
such as biomass or direct air capture (DAC).
Structural changes in fuel prices can significantly influence how and when alternative solutions
are adopted within the shipping industry. To assess this impact, we examine the impact of

current high prices on the business case for oil and gas-based shipping fuels and synthetic
fuels like methanol and ammonia. The duration of elevated fuel prices remains a subject of
intense discussion and is closely tied to ongoing geopolitical developments surrounding the
closure of the Strait of Hormuz, as well as the potential damage to oil and gas infrastructure in


===== Page 25 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 4
the Middle East from further conflict. You can find our most recent scenario analysis here. In
this article, we set aside geopolitical factors and focus solely on how sustained higher prices
affect the cost dynamics of various fuels.
When oil products remain high, LNG becomes more attractive
In the high-price scenario – the one most relevant under a continued Hormuz disruption –
oil products become the big movers:

MGO rises from 0.38 to 0.75 $/DWT/1,000km (+97%)
VLSFO rises from 0.30 to 0.61 (+103%)
LNG rises from 0.25 to 0.41 (+64%)
The key mechanism is that the high case hits oil products harder than gas and power inputs.
LNG becomes the most attractive “available now” hedge. In other words, the Hormuz-driven oil
shock makes LNG not only a transitional decarbonisation option, but also commercially the
most attractive option.
Hormuz disruption strengthens LNG’s position as synthetic

fuels lag on cost
Indicative unsubsidised fuel costs in $/DWT/1,000km
Source: ING research based on energy prices from Refinitiv and fossil fuel prices in shipping from Clarkson
Methanol gains traction faster than ammonia


===== Page 26 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 5
Over the last three years, methanol has outpaced ammonia in commercial momentum in
deep-sea shipping. There are four practical reasons:
Engine and vessel adaptation is simpler and faster. Methanol can be used in internal1.
combustion engines with fewer “system-wide” changes than ammonia, which require
more extensive redesign and new safety systems.
Bunkering and handling are more straightforward. Methanol is a liquid at ambient2.

conditions, which reduces complexity compared to ammonia configurations.
A “ready now / ready later” option exists. Orders for methanol-capable and methanol-3.
ready dual-fuel vessels have become a pragmatic bet: shipowners can run on
conventional fuels today and switch as low-carbon methanol supply grows. It is also a
hedge against the possibility that policy pushes faster toward low-carbon fuels than
infrastructure.
From a cost perspective, methanol is currently more attractive than ammonia.4.

Methanol’s CO2 footprint signals a downside; only blue and green deliver progress
Methanol still contains carbon, which is emitted as CO2 when burned. This limits its
CO2 reduction potential compared to ammonia, which is carbon‑free at the tailpipe. Only blue
and green methanol deliver emission reductions relative to MGO and VLSFO and even then, the
emissions reduction seems to be modest compared with LNG, at least in our framework, where
methanol is currently predominantly produced from natural gas in Europe, compared to

biomass (as a future green alternative), or coal (common practice in China). This matches our
earlier warning: synthetic fuels can increase emissions if they are produced in a non-
sustainable way, because the production chain is energy-intensive and the carbon intensity of
inputs dominates outcomes. The economics and climate credentials of gas-based methanol
remain challenging compared to LNG, even when produced as blue or green variants.
Methanol’s biggest strategic value may be its optionality. When oil-product prices become

more volatile, the value of being able to switch fuels - or at least switch procurement strategy
– rises. That is precisely where dual-fuel capability becomes more than a decarbonisation
story; it becomes a resilience story.
The oil shock narrows the methanol–oil price gap
Our model outputs show that higher prices for bunker fuels narrow the gap between methanol
and marine gas oil (MGO). MGO roughly doubles in price, while methanol rises by about

50–60%. So relative competitiveness improves for methanol: while it is still more expensive, the
distance between oil and methanol shrinks. But two important caveats remain. Oil products
like MGO and VLSFO remain cheaper than blue and green methanol.


===== Page 27 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 6
Price premium of synthetic fuels has narrowed now that oil
prices are higher
Indicative unsubsidised fuel costs in $/DWT/1,000km
Source: ING Research
Why blue methanol is probably the attractive variant
Given that the green hydrogen market is still stuck in a pilot phase, blue methanol is a
plausible near-term stepping stone: it scales earlier because it depends on gas plus CCS rather
than small scale electrolysers. This “blue-first, green-later” pathway is also consistent with how

many heavy-industry transitions unfold: deploy the imperfect-but-better option first, then
upgrade as clean technologies become cheaper and renewable power becomes more
abundant.
Ammonia remains on the radar: expensive now – promising in
the long run
Ammonia is expensive in its blue and green variants, but this would offer strong climate
benefits and real progress in CO2-reduction. Despite its challenging economics and inherent
toxicity, market participants have not dismissed it as a viable option. The perception seems to

be shifting from probably not to probably yes. But efficient usage is also a longer-term bet.
Participants in the shipping sector now mostly refer to grey ammonia, which is already
abundantly available for other purposes. But then again, this comes with more emissions, so it
should not be viewed as a sustainable solution. However, overtime, blue and green variants
could become more attractive if costs come down and carbon pricing is introduced.


===== Page 28 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 7
LNG holds the best cards
LNG still looks like the stronger near-term route for ship owners, based on our numbers,
because it combines lower emissions with lower costs compared to oil products. So, the Middle
East oil supply crunch could accelerate a shift away from conventional fuels without
necessarily accelerating a shift to synthetic fuels, like ammonia and methanol. It rewards the
“closest substitute” that is available at scale, which is LNG.

That creates a strategic tension for the sector and for policymakers: energy security and cost
pressures may drive faster adoption of LNG, while net-zero targets still require a ramp-up of
truly low-carbon fuels like biofuels and synthetic fuels from blue and green production routes.
LNG vessels offer future flexibility for conversion to ammonia
While ammonia presents certain safety challenges, it holds significant long-term promise as a
shipping fuel. The possibility of converting LNG-capable vessels to run on ammonia in the

future enhances their strategic value, providing shipowners with greater flexibility. Investing in
LNG-powered vessels is not only a cost-effective and lower-emission option in the near term,
but also future-proof fleets, by allowing for a smoother transition to ammonia as technology
and regulations evolve. As gas-propelled vessels, these ships can be adapted to operate on
ammonia, supporting both decarbonisation goals and resilience in a changing energy

landscape.
General momentum slowed amid policy headwinds
The total orderbook in global shipping also confirms that LNG leads as an alternative fuel. In
May this year, 28% of the over 7,000 vessels on order are capable of running on alternative
fuels, over half this share can run on LNG (15%). Methanol comes second, with particularly
recent investments by several container liners.
After a post-pandemic acceleration, we saw orders for ships capable of running on alternative

fuels slowed in 2025. During the second Trump administration, the United States shifted its
policy and effectively lobbied International Maritime Organization (IMO) members to oppose
the adoption of global measures aimed at advancing the industry’s climate ambitions and
implementing a carbon pricing mechanism. Against this backdrop, companies – including
frontrunners like Maersk - are still pursuing a diversified strategy and keeping their options

open.
All eyes on IMO as shipping needs a global carbon price to
decarbonise
The IMO’s Marine Environment Protection Committee is still discussing a framework to deliver
on the previously agreed net-zero target (NZF) for 2050. The proposal agreed in 2025, which
has since been postponed by member states, includes a carbon price of $100 per tonne of


===== Page 29 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 8
CO2 for emissions within the baseline, and $380 for non-compliance (we discussed the details
here). Such a system could further narrow the cost gap with synthetic fuels and help pass
additional costs along the value chain.  After a year of delays, adjustments to the 2025
proposal now appear likely as stakeholders seek a compromise. However, it remains uncertain
whether a final agreement will be reached.

It's important to keep in mind that shipping costs typically represent less than 5% of overall
product costs that are being shipped. The high efficiency of shipping means that even if these
costs increase substantially, the impact on end consumers is minimal and the price premium is
barely noticeable for most products. However, this dynamic is quite different for shipping
companies and charterers, which are directly affected by rising operational expenses. As such,

effective policies are essential to address these challenges within the industry.
Cost, security and climate goals
In the current environment, shipping owners face significant uncertainty, as geopolitical
tensions around the Strait of Hormuz continue to drive volatility in bunker fuel prices, like
marine gasoil (MGO). Elevated MGO prices are narrowing the cost gap with synthetic fuels such
as methanol and ammonia, at least in Europe. However, LNG stands out as the most cost-

effective option, solidifying its position as the preferred fuel choice. Amid the ongoing conflict
and unpredictable fuel availability, we expect shipping companies to look beyond cost
considerations. Dual-fuel capabilities, diversified bunkering access, and flexible contracts that
permit fuel switching are increasingly valuable strategies, especially if high prices persist. This
dynamic is expected to accelerate orders for LNG, and methanol-ready vessels, supporting

operational resilience while helping to future-proof fleets against further market disruptions. It
may also help shipowners meet their climate targets by significantly reducing vessel
emissions.
Appendix: scenario assumptions and model explainer
Two commodity price scenarios for the shipping sector from a Northwestern European
perspective
Source: ING Research
Model explainer


===== Page 30 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 9
Indicative emissions are modelled for an 82,000 deadweight tonnage (DWT) vessel, assuming
230 sailing days per year at an average speed of 12.5 knots. The analysis adopts a full life-
cycle perspective, covering both well-to-tank (fuel production) and tank-to-wake (onboard
combustion) emissions.
Natural gas is assumed as the primary feedstock for grey and blue methanol and ammonia,
reflecting current production in Northwest Europe. As a result, no emission reductions from

biomass or Direct Air Capture (DAC) are included. While these lower-carbon sources could be
deployed in future pathways, particularly for methanol, they would come at higher cost and
result in lower overall emissions compared to our figures. In this analysis, the “colour” reflects
the pathway used to produce hydrogen: grey hydrogen is derived from unabated natural gas;
blue hydrogen combines natural gas with carbon capture and storage (CCS); and green

hydrogen comes from electrolysis powered by low‑carbon electricity.
For blue production routes, a CO2 capture rate of 80% is assumed. The relatively limited
electricity demand in grey and blue pathways is assumed to be met by grid power with a
carbon intensity of 200 kg CO2/MWh, broadly representative of the Netherlands and Belgium.
For green methanol and green ammonia, it is assumed that electrolysers are fully powered by
low-carbon electricity (renewables, hydro or nuclear), sourced via Power Purchase Agreements

(PPAs).
Emissions are expressed per tonne-kilometre, ensuring comparability across fuels.
In addition to the assumptions underpinning the emissions' analysis, we’ve used different
economic assumptions for a world where the Strait of Hormuz opens or remains closed.
Synthetic fuel costs are modelled using different values for gas, power, carbon and marine fuel
prices (see table), while an exchange rate of €1 = $1.18 is used in both scenarios.
Hydrogen production is assumed to take place within a 50km radius of methanol and

ammonia plants, with transport via pipeline. This results in hydrogen costs of €1.80/kg (grey),
€2.00/kg (blue), and €4.50/kg (green) in the low price environment and €2.70/kg (grey),
€3.10/kg (blue), and €6.65/kg (green) in the high price environment.
Finally, the results reflect fuel costs only and exclude vessel capex and opex, so they do not
represent total cost of ownership.


===== Page 31 =====

This publication has been prepared by the Economic and Financial Analysis Division of ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) solely for
information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.


===== Page 32 =====

Article | 13 May 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  13 May 2026   CZECH REPUBLIC   HUNGARY
Webinar: Directional Economics CEE –
who breaks, who bends on Energy
Shock 2.0
Join ING’s CEE economists for a live webinar on 21

May, looking at how
the region copes with the 2026 oil shock. We’ll also be analysing the
change of government in Hungary and what can be learned from
Poland’s political experience, plus whether CEE central banks are about
to make a policy mistake in reacting to inflation. Sign up here
The oil shock is a macro stress test for the CEE region
Source: Shutterstock
The oil shock that began in March isn't just another commodity move; it's a macro stress test
for the CEE region at a time when disinflation was maturing, fiscal space was narrow, and
demand was largely fragile. The differences that matter most aren't how much oil a country
imports, but who has the institutional shock absorbers to manage the blow.
Join ING’s CEE economists for a live webinar examining the fall out on the region from higher
energy prices.
You’ll learn:
Which countries entered into this shock in a better position


===== Page 33 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 13 May 2026 2
Where the structural burden of high oil prices will be felt the most.
What policy changes can and cannot do
The spillover to the CIS economies, through external buffers and currencies
Moving away from energy and into politics, we’ll also be looking at the challenges facing the
new Tisza government in Hungary and what it can learn from Poland’s Civic Platform which
returned to power in 2023.

And we’ll be wrapping up with a look across the region at whether any central bank tightening
into this inflation shock would represent a policy mistake.
This webinar will follow the publication of the latest Directional Economics, complete with
updated forecasts and analysis of the CEE economies.
Details
Date: Thursday 21 May
Time: 1300 BST/1400 CEST
The webinar will last 60 minutes, including a Q&A session at the end.
The event will take place online and the waiting room will open 60 minutes ahead of the

scheduled start time.
A joining link will be emailed following registration, and you will receive a reminder email 10
minutes before the scheduled start time.


===== Page 34 =====

This publication has been prepared by the Economic and Financial Analysis Division of ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) solely for
information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to

purchase or sell any financial instrument. Reasonable care has been taken to ensure that this publication is not untrue or
misleading when published, but ING does not represent that it is accurate or complete. ING does not accept any liability for


===== Page 35 =====

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.


===== Page 36 =====

Article | 12 May 2026 1
THINK economic and financial analysis
Article  |  12 May 2026   RATES
Rates: The hidden force pushing gilt
yields to record highs
The 10Y gilt yield hit new highs on the back of inflation and political risks,
but investors should not ignore the role of the Bank of England’s QT in
this. We estimate the 2s10s GBP curve steepened by 60bp more than the
USD curve due to the increased gilt supply and the divergence can
continue. This could also be a lesson for Warsh who may look to walk a

similar path
The Bank of England, London. The central bank's quantitative tightening is adding to the upward pressure
on gilt yields
Global factors add to GBP term premium, but not entire story
The 10Y gilt yield has hit its highest level since 2008, and whilst the near-term focus remains
on oil prices and politics, the Bank of England’s balance sheet unwind poses further upside risk.
And with the discussion about quantitative tightening (QT) flaring up again in the US under

new Fed leadership, markets can learn from the potential impact on US rates by looking at the
UK.
Sterling rates are relatively sensitive to global market moves, and the spillovers from the US
term premium play an especially important role. Between 2023 and today, the correlation of


===== Page 37 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 12 May 2026 2
weekly changes in the 2s10s of the GBP curve and the US curve has been a significant 0.6. If we
take the 2s10s term spread as a rough proxy of the term premium, both seem to be similar at
first sight. The market optimism in US equity markets helps the US curve steepen again and
also adds to the upward pressure on gilt yields.
Japan’s curve shows a very different picture, and therefore we cannot simply assume a single

global factor explains all term premia. For one, Japan’s economy has followed a very different
path compared to other countries, experiencing stagflation for prolonged periods of time.
Second, and of more importance to our analysis, is the fact that the Bank of Japan has
intervened significantly more in the rates market through balance sheet policy than other
central banks.
Global term premia are strongly correlated but domestic
factors play a role too

Source: ING estimates, Macrobond
Besides a global factor, the term spread is also driven by the business cycle. When a central
bank hikes rates, curves tend to flatten, and vice versa. These moves seem more pronounced
than purely explained by changes in the expected policy rates. As such, the 2Y rate is arguably
an important ingredient for the term premium.
And indeed, when looking over the past decade, the 2Y and the 2s10s show a strong negative

correlation. The interesting observation here is that the term premium of the GBP curves
seems to have increased disproportionately to the change in 2Y rates. This effect is also visible
for the USD curve, but to a much lesser extent.


===== Page 38 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 12 May 2026 3
When accounting for 2Y dynamics, the GBP curve recently
steepened more than the USD curve
Source: ING estimates, Macrobond
We explore the divergence by looking at the spread differential of the 2s10s between the GBP
and USD curve. Besides the 2Y spread differential, we add relative inflation to the model, which
greatly improves the fit when used in conjunction with 2Y rates. Inflation differentials capture

changing macro regimes and can help explain the term premium investors demand for
holding longer dated bonds.
Our three variable regression model (Fig 3) captures 83% of the variation in the difference
between the 2s10s of the GBP and USD curve, whereby especially the residuals are of interest.
We can easily identify three events that explain the deviation from our model, namely 1) QE
by the Bank of England starting in 2016, 2) the Lizz Truss moment in 2022 and 3) the Fed’s

tapering of QT in 2024. Outside of these periods the residual is close to zero, suggesting we are
not missing any important variables.


===== Page 39 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 12 May 2026 4
QT seems to play a part in explaining a 60bp steeper GBP
2s10s curve
Whilst the Fed announced a significant tapering of QT in May 2024, the pace of QT has
remained much higher in the UK, helping explain the residual in our model. The Bank of
England is continuing with active sales, bringing the wind-down to a significant £70bn per
year. In terms of numbers, the 2s10s GBP curve is now some 60bp steeper since this

divergence in monetary policy.
The Fed faced reserve constraints, forcing it to slow QT, but the Bank of England does not have
this problem, allowing QT to continue. Even though shrinking the bond book has extracted
reserves from the banking system, a significant uptake of the Short Term Repo (STR) and
Indexed Long-Term Repo (ILTR) have managed to stabilise reserves. In effect, the market stress
in US repo markets never showed up in sterling markets.


===== Page 40 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 12 May 2026 5
Significant pickup in BoE liquidity facilities are preventing
reserves from falling, allow QT to continue
Source: ING estimates, Bank of England, Macrobond
With money markets seemingly stable, in theory, the Bank of England can continue unwinding
the gilt portfolio, albeit at the expense of higher government borrowing costs. An August
report from the Bank of England suggested that QT had an impact of 15-25bp as of then on

longer-dated rates. But when you also include the changes in swap spreads, our estimate of
the impact from QT on gilt yields is significantly higher. Since the start of QT, the 10Y Gilt-swap
spread rose more than 80bp, adding to the steeper swap curve.
With more gilt supply continuing to hit the market, including significant government issuance,
investors may demand higher yields to be lured in. Already we see that gilt auctions have
started to rely more on foreign demand to clear since the start of QT in 2023. Before 2023, the

foreign uptake of gilt syndications up to 20Y was just 10%. This increased to over 25% after the
start of QT. Foreign investors tend to be more price sensitive compared to domestic players
such as banks, pension funds and insurance funds. Domestic players are more likely to buy
gilts for reasons like liquidity and hedging regulation.
Since QT, gilt markets have relied on more price-sensitive
foreign investors, helping push up 10Y gilt yields
Source: ING estimates, DMO, Macrobond


===== Page 41 =====

THINK economic and financial analysis
Article | 12 May 2026 6
So while we continue to see a rising term premium for the UK, we think a dovish repricing of
policy rates should start bringing down the curve. But the scope for lower 10Y gilt yields is
limited. We identify 4.5% as a realistic fair value in 2027. We believe the dynamics in the UK
serve as a good lesson for Fed policy too. If new Chair Kevin Warsh manages to follow up with
his plans to unwind the Fed’s bond portfolio at an accelerated pace, then the US curve should

This publication has been prepared by the Economic and Financial Analysis Division of ING Bank N.V. (“ING”) solely for
information purposes without regard to any particular user's investment objectives, financial situation, or means. ING forms
part of ING Group (being for this purpose ING Group N.V. and its subsidiary and affiliated companies). The information in the
publication is not an investment recommendation and it is not investment, legal or tax advice or an offer or solicitation to

person for any purpose without the prior express consent of ING. All rights are reserved. ING Bank N.V. is authorised by the
Dutch Central Bank and supervised by the European Central Bank (ECB), the Dutch Central Bank (DNB) and the Dutch Authority
for the Financial Markets (AFM). ING Bank N.V. is incorporated in the Netherlands (Trade Register no. 33031431 Amsterdam). In
the United Kingdom this information is approved and/or communicated by ING Bank N.V., London Branch. ING Bank N.V.,

London Branch is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and is subject to regulation by the Financial Conduct
Authority and limited regulation by the Prudential Regulation Authority. ING Bank N.V., London branch is registered in England
(Registration number BR000341) at 8-10 Moorgate, London EC2 6DA. For US Investors: Any person wishing to discuss this
report or effect transactions in any security discussed herein should contact ING Financial Markets LLC, which is a member of

States under applicable requirements.
Additional information is available on request. For more information about ING Group, please visit www.ing.com.
