===== Page 1 =====

Economics
March 3, 2026
International
Downside Scenario: EM Vulnerabilities to a Sustained Geopolitical Shock
International Commentary
Economist(s)
Brendan McKenna
Our base case scenario for Middle East events is still for a short-lived disruption to the global economy and financial markets (Wells Fargo - The Conflictwith Iran: FAQ with the Team). But the downside scenario of a prolonged rise in geopolitical uncertainty and sustained markets volatility is increasingly morelikely and needs to be evaluated. We assess this elevated geopolitical uncertainty shock scenario for emerging market economies and financial marketsthrough a vulnerability lens.

Most EMs have reduced vulnerabilities to a sudden stop in capital flows, especially the systemically important countries (e.g., China and India). However, inthe event of a sudden stop, countries reliant on external financing with adverse sovereign debt profiles and inadequate FX reserves are most vulnerable.Those with elevated vulnerabilities can experience balance of payments crises, sharp economic slowdowns, or worse, sovereign default. Argentina andTurkey flag as most vulnerable, while Brazil and Mexico have only moderate vulnerability to a stop in capital flows.

A sustained geopolitical shock can be another test to the resilience of EM FX. Over the last few days, EM FX has come under broad pressure, but marketparticipants may show a renewed focus on fundamentals and valuations in a shock. Currencies associated with weak fundamentals and expensivevaluations can see a sharp reversal (e.g., COP, MXN and ZAR). Countries associated with stronger FX fundamentals and more attractive valuations (e.g.,TWD and KRW) can be more protected. At the same time, keep an eye on our framework's "max selloff" levels for whether a currency has become toomisaligned or is detached from underlying FX fundamentals. "Buying" or "hedging" opportunities may become available should those levels be breached.

A combined FX and inflation shock via elevated oil prices limits EM central banks' ability to cut policy rates further. Select central banks may still be able tocut as real interest rates are elevated and the shock hits less acutely (e.g., Brazil, albeit with less space). Others could see easing cycles end early asinflationary pressure builds from higher oil prices and FX pass-through, complicating already existing inflation pressures (e.g., Banxico). A few could restarttightening cycles even if growth prospects are damaged, as financial stability and containing inflation expectations becomes paramount (e.g., Reserve Bankof India).

Should an affordability shock ensue from markets volatility and/or higher non-discretionary expenditures governments may be limited in their ability torespond via fiscal support. Public finance positions are already weak across EM, except for a select few. For certain governments, rising oil prices cangenerate increased revenues, boost growth prospects and offer new space to offset affordability issues. Administrations will need to weigh that dynamicagainst already wide fiscal deficits and large debt burdens (e.g., Colombia). But should governments without fiscal headroom ignore public financelimitations sovereign bond markets may turn volatile, and financing issues could follow.


===== Page 2 =====




===== Page 3 =====

Economics Group


===== Page 4 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Bank, N.A. (“WFBNA”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and the information contained inthis report is not financial research. WFBNA distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo Securities, LLC, Wells Fargo & Company,Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo Securities Canada, Ltd. Wells FargoSecurities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National Futures Association. WellsFargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. All reports published bythe Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our public website. Clients may also receive our reports via thirdparty vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report are not maintained, controlled oroperated by WFBNA. WFBNA does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed on these websites do not necessarily represent those ofWFBNA.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE
