===== Page 1 =====

Economics
March 18, 2026
March FOMC: In the Right Place for Now
Special Commentary
Economist(s)
Tom Porcelli
Sarah House
Michael Pugliese
Optionality maintained. As expected, the FOMC left the fed funds rate unchanged at 3.50%-3.75% at its March meeting and was careful not to hint at thetiming of future adjustments. The statement reaffirmed the FOMC's view of "solid" growth and inflation that "remains somewhat elevated," but signaled alittle less confidence in the state of the labor market by noting that the unemployment rate "has been little changed" versus previously saying it has shown"some signs of stabilization."

Increased uncertainty was acknowledged head on in the statement and press conference. There is no doubt in our minds that the spike in oil prices isinflationary over the near term, but this is a supply shock, which monetary policy is ill-equipped to solve. The Fed also has to grapple with the growth-sapping effects of higher oil prices that add a fresh challenge to the already-struggling labor market (Figure 1).
Participants seemed hesitant to incorporate looming stagflation risks into the SEP. The median estimate for PCE inflation at year-end rose to 2.7%from 2.4% in December, less than what we were expecting with our own estimate tracking at 2.9%. The median core projection rose to 2.7%, perhapsreflecting some pass-through of higher energy costs, but more likely, in our view, stemming from the stubborn strength of recent readings that has left theindex up 3.1% over the past year (Figure 2). Meantime, the median estimate for GDP this year was revised up a tenth and the median unemployment ratewas unchanged. While this did not signal as much of a stagflationary shock as we expected, we note that participants flagged higher uncertainty aroundtheir estimates with risks skewed more toward higher inflation and unemployment than in the December SEP.

Wait-and-see mode kept the median view of rates this year unchanged. The median estimate of the fed funds rate at year-end remained at 3.375%,implying one 25 bps cut in 2026, while the median dot for 2027 held at 3.125% (Figure 3). The continued bias toward easing reflects that most Fed officialsstill view policy as slightly restrictive, even as the median long-run estimate drifted up a tenth to 3.1%.
The Committee looks a little less divided. No participants viewed a hike as appropriate this year, even as hawkish members have been voicing theirconcerns about inflation's prolonged overshoot from target these past five years. At the same time, Governor Waller voted in line with the Committee,making Governor Miran the lone dissenter. Yet even the lowest projection for the fed funds rate at year-end—presumably Governor Miran's—shifted up, andsuggests less dispersion among members' view at present.

Two more cuts this year remain our base case. We sympathize with the view that the labor market remains on a shaky footing. While the renewedinflation concerns generate risk to our call for the FOMC to cut again by June, we still look for two 25 bps cuts this year and acknowledge they just mightend up coming a little later (Figure 4). The inflationary effects of higher oil prices become visible more quickly than does the damage they inflict on growthand the labor market. So long as long-term inflation expectations stay anchored, we believe the Fed could still move the fed funds rate further towardneutral in the second half of the year.

Reserve management purchases (RMPs) continue at their current $40B monthly pace. The Fed did not announce plans to reduce RMPs as we wereexpecting. Yet given the recent reduction in funding pressures, we suspect a slowdown to around a $20-25B monthly pace has merely been delayed and islikely to be announced at the Fed's April meeting and begin mid-May.
Figure 1


===== Page 2 =====

Source: U.S. Department of Labor and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 2
Source: U.S. Department of Commerce and Wells Fargo Economics


===== Page 3 =====

Figure 3
Source: Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics
Figure 4


===== Page 4 =====

This report is produced by the Economics Group of Wells Fargo Securities, LLC (“Wells Fargo Securities”). This report is not a product of Wells Fargo Global Research and theinformation contained in this report is not financial research. Wells Fargo Securities distributes this report directly and through affiliates including, but not limited to, Wells Fargo &Company, Wells Fargo Bank, N.A., Wells Fargo Clearing Services, LLC, Wells Fargo Securities International Limited, Wells Fargo Securities Europe S.A., and Wells Fargo SecuritiesCanada, Ltd. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a futures commission merchant and is a member in good standing of theNational Futures Association. WFBNA is registered with the Commodity Futures Trading Commission as a swap dealer and is a member in good standing of the National FuturesAssociation. Wells Fargo Securities, LLC and WFBNA are generally engaged in the trading of futures and derivative products, any of which may be discussed within this report. Allreports published by the Economics Group are disseminated and available to all clients simultaneously through electronic publication to our internal client website. Clients may alsoreceive our reports via third party vendors. We are not responsible for the redistribution of our reports by third-party aggregators. Any external website links included in this report arenot maintained, controlled or operated by Wells Fargo Securities. Wells Fargo Securities does not provide the products and services on these websites and the views expressed onthese websites do not necessarily represent those of Wells Fargo Securities.

SECURITIES: NOT FDIC-INSURED - MAY LOSE VALUE - NO BANK GUARANTEE
Source: Federal Reserve Board and Wells Fargo Economics
