===== Page 1 =====

WS Global CIO Office 
24 April 2026

May 2026 
Global Market Outlook 
An uneasy 
truce 
Further de-escalation of the Middle 
East conflict and a softening of oil 
prices remain our base case. However, 
bouts of market volatility are likely in the 
absence of a firm US-Iran deal. We 
remain Overweight equities and gold.

We remain Overweight US and Asia 
ex-Japan equities. Strong earnings are 
expected to support further gains in US 
equities, led by the technology sector. 
Asian equities should benefit from 
renewed USD weakness and robust 
earnings.

Oil price scenarios are key. Logistical 
challenges are expected to result in WTI 
crude oil settling in the USD 80-90/bbl 
range over the next 1-3 months even if 
the Strait of Hormuz fully reopens. 
Renewed conflict escalation and a 
resulting rise in oil prices remain key risks 
for now.



Why USD 100/bbl oil isn’t 
an economy killer 
Managing allocations in 
volatile markets 
Are quantitative models 
still bullish equities?


===== Page 2 =====

01 
 Strategy 
 Investment strategy: An uneasy truce 03 
 Foundation asset allocation models 05 
 Foundation: Our tactical asset allocation 06 
 Perspectives on key client questions 07 
 Asset Allocation: Navigating volatility through risk 
contribution 10

02 
 Macro overview – at a glance 
 Our macroeconomic outlook and key questions 12

03 
 Asset classes 
 Fixed Income 14 
 Equity 16 
 Equity opportunistic views 17 
 Gold and crude oil 18 
 FX 19

04 
 Additional perspectives 
 Quant perspective: Bullish equities 21

05 
 Performance review 
 Foundation: Asset allocation summary 23 
 Foundation+: Asset allocation summary 24 
 Market performance summary 25 
 Our key forecasts and calendar events 26 
 SC Wealth Select 27 
 Explanatory notes 30

Contents


===== Page 3 =====

Global Market Outlook 3

12m Foundation Overweights: 
• Global equities, gold 
• US, Asia ex-Japan equities 
• Emerging Market (EM) USD and 
local currency (LCY) 
Opportunistic Ideas – Equities: 
• Global: Semiconductors, 
buybacks, gold miners^ 
• US: Aerospace and defence, 
utilities 
• China: Hang Seng Technology 
Index 
Top Global Sectors: 
• US: Technology, communication 
services^, utilities, healthcare 
• Europe ex-UK: Financials 
Opportunistic Ideas – Bonds: 
• US: Treasury Inflation-protected 
Securities (TIPS), short-duration 
high-yield (HY) bonds, AAA 
CLOs, utility sector hybrids 
• EU: Bank AT1s FX-hedged 
• Others: AUD corporate bonds 
^New 
An uneasy truce  
• Further de-escalation of the Middle East conflict and a softening of oil prices 
remain our base case . However, bouts of market volatility are likely in the 
absence of a firm US-Iran deal. We remain Overweight equities and gold.  
• We remain Overweight US and Asia ex-Japan (AxJ) equities. Strong earnings 
are expected to support further gains in US equities, led by the technology sector. 
Asian equities should benefit from renewed USD weakness and robust earnings. 
• Oil price scenarios are key. Logistical realities are expected to result in WTI crude 
oil settling around USD 80-90/bbl over the next 1 -3 months even if the Strait of 
Hormuz fully reopens. Renewed conflict escalation and a resulting rise in oil prices 
remain key risks for now. 
We stay positive, but it’s never a straight line 
The Middle East stand-off continues to dominate headlines and investor thinking, 
resulting in a sharp focus on when shipping transit through the Strait of Hormuz will 
restart, its impact on oil prices and related market movements. In our base case, we 
expect the ongoing move towards conflict de-escalation to continue in the coming 
weeks, albeit with bouts of headline volatility. Having said that, the tail risk of an 
unexpected resumption of hostilities remains present for now. 
Financial markets thus far agree with us. Despite the Middle East conflict, US equities 
achieved a new record high after only a relatively modest pullback. This coincided with 
the return of oil prices to around USD 100/bbl and a related easing in US bond yields 
and the USD. We would avoid extrapolating straight -line gains, but overall , if de -
escalation continues, we expect equities and gold to outperform bonds and cash. 
The threat of inflation is likely to be an area of focus over the next couple of months. 
However, we expect the global economy to avoid a sustained rise in inflation. In the 
US, this should allow the Fed to achieve one rate cut before year -end 2026, while in 
Europe, the ECB likely needs to raise rates only once. That said, markets may be 
excessively overpricing the extent of central bank hawkishness, creating rate 
opportunities, particularly in short-to-intermediate US bond maturities.

1 Investment strategy and key themes

Steve Brice 
Global Chief Investment Officer 
Manpreet Gill 
Chief Investment Officer, AMEE 
Raymond Cheng 
Chief Investment Officer, North Asia


===== Page 4 =====

Global Market Outlook 4

Fig. 1 Softening energy prices have helped US yields 
and the USD to fall, despite headline risks  
 Fig. 2 Funding announcements and pricing power 
helped US tech sector bottom; we expect further gains 
Oil, US 5Y government bond yield and the US Dollar Index  MSCI US technology sector Index

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Tech to lead US equities 
We remain Overweight US equities, which have outperformed 
other major regions throughout the period of hostilities, 
including during the current rebound . This is  due to the US 
economy’s lower dependence on Middle East energy versus 
Asia and Europe and a relatively stronger earnings outlook. 
A more significant inflation shock would have been a stronger 
headwind for US equity markets. However, we believe easing 
energy prices and well -behaved, long-term market -based 
inflation expectations, together with a soft job market, will 
allow the Fed to stay on hold and resume rate cuts before 
year-end. This means equit y markets  are likely to continue 
their focus on earnings growth. Here, data remains very 
strong, with Q1 2026 earnings reinforcing market expectations 
for full-year 2026 earnings growth of 19%.  
We expect the technology sector to keep its lead, especially 
after the recent valuation de -rating, light investor positioning 
and a recent positive set of catalysts via funding commitments 
and improved pricing power. We also raise the US 
communication services sector to Overweight on an improving 
digital advertising environment and expanding opportunities 
to monetise artificial intelligence (AI) investments. 
We also maintain our Overweight on AxJ equities. The region 
undoubtedly remains sensitive to energy prices and any 
renewed rise in tensions from both the economic and 
corporate profitability perspectives. However, in a world of flat-
to-lower oil prices from here, we expect two catalysts to pick 
up the slack. First , the strong technology sector earnings, 
which should spill over positive ly, particularly for North Asian 
equities. Second , the resumption of a weak US D, which is 
consistent with further outperformance of Asian equities. 
Within Asia, we maintain our ‘barbell’ regional preference. Our 
Overweight to China and Taiwan equities should benefit from 
strong technology sector earnings and a renewed focus on the 
AI theme. At the other end, our Overweight on Indian equities 
has little direct exposure to AI, but this should benefit from 
very light investor positioning, well-supported earnings growth 
and gradually lower oil prices/weaker USD. 
Capturing yield and taking profit in bonds 
We expect long -term inflation expectations to remain stable . 
Thus, we see any rebound in bond yields as temporary and  
as opportunities to lock in the yield at the short-to-intermediate 
parts of yield curves as they re -steepen, with central banks 
delivering less tightening than currently priced by markets. 
Our Overweight to Emerging Market ( EM) bonds (USD and  
LCY) remains unchanged. Spreads widen ed in response to 
the Middle East conflict but have since retraced most of the 
move. Looking ahead, EM bonds should benefit from renewed 
appetite for risky asset classes and a softer USD as the 
conflict de-escalates. However, they remain vulnerable to a 
downside risk scenario involving a renewed rise in oil prices.  
We also trim our view on D eveloped Market (DM) HY bonds 
to Neutral following a rise in  valuations. Credit quality and 
yields remain attractive, but we see better risk -reward now in 
our short-duration US HY bonds opportunistic idea. 
Oil prices could hit a near-term floor 
One key assumption behind many of our views is that oil 
prices continue to drift gradually lower in our base case.  
However, there are two reasons why a quick return to pre -
conflict oil prices is unlikely. First , the time needed to fully 
resume Middle East oil and gas output. Shipping will take time 
to resume even if the Strait of Hormuz is reopened quickly , 
and damaged facilities will take time to repair. Second , 
inventories will need to be rebuilt, adding a new source of 
demand in the coming months and years. Together, this is 
why we revise higher our 3-month WTI oil price forecast to 
USD 80-90/bbl and our 12-month forecast to USD 70/bbl. 
A downside scenario of renewed hostilities, with a resulting 
surge in energy prices, remains a risk. However, compared 
with the 1970s, the global economy is considerably more 
energy-efficient and oil prices in the current episode have 
remained below prior highs once adjusted for inflation. Thus, 
we expect risks to be manageable unless prices settle above 
USD 150/bbl.
98.5
3.9
3.0
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.0
4.2
4.4
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Apr-25 Aug-25 Dec-25 Apr-26
%
USD
Brent oil price US 5y Treasury yield (RHS)
98.4
95
97
99
101
103
105
DXY index (L1)
Mythos AI model preview;
US-Iran ceasefire 
announcement
OpenAI funding 
announcement
1,292
750
950
1,150
1,350
1,550
Apr-25 Aug-25 Dec-25 Apr-26
Index
MSCI US Technology index Events


===== Page 5 =====

Global Market Outlook 5

The Foundation and Foundation+ models are allocations that you can use as the starting point for building a diversified 
investment portfolio. The Foundation model showcases a set of allocations focusing on traditional asset classes that are 
accessible to m ost investors, while the Foundation+ model includes allocations to private assets that may be accessible to 
investors in some jurisdictions, but not others. 
Fig. 3 Foundation asset allocation for a balanced risk profile

Fig. 4 Foundation+ asset allocation for a balanced risk profile

Fig. 5 Multi-asset income allocation for a moderate risk profile

Source: Standard Chartered

Equity 54%
North America 37%
Europe ex-UK 6%
UK 1%
Japan 3%
Asia ex-Japan 7%
Bond 38%
DM IG Government 10%
DM IG Corporate 10%
DM HY Corporate 2%
EM USD Government 6%
EM Local Ccy Government 5%
Asia USD 5%
Balanced
Cash 3%
USD Cash 3%
Gold 6%
Gold 6%
Equity 43%
North America 29%
Europe ex-UK 5%
UK 1%
Japan 2%
Asia ex-Japan 6%
Bond 30%
DM IG Government 8%
DM IG Corporate 8%
DM HY Corporate 2%
EM USD Government 5%
EM Local Ccy Government 4%
Asia USD 4%
Balanced
Cash 2%
USD Cash 2%
Alternatives 25%
Gold                                                5%
Hedge Fund Strategies                   3%
Private Equity 5%
Private Real Assets 4%
Private Debt 6%
Digital Assets                                  2%
Bonds 53%
DM IG Government 6%
DM IG Corporate 5%
US Mortgage-backed 
Securities 4%
DM HY Corporate 20%
EM HC Government 6%
EM LC Government 6%
Asia USD 6%
Hybrids 8%
Covered calls 5%
Sub financials 3%
Multi-asset 
Income
Equity 37%
Global High Dividend 24%
Global Equity 8%
Global Infrastructure 3%
Global REITs                                        2%
Cash 1%
USD Cash 1%

2 Foundation asset allocation models


===== Page 6 =====

Global Market Outlook 6

View Detail 
USD cash ▼ + Short-term safety || - Falling yields, likely underperform vs major asset classes 
Bonds ◆  
DM IG Govt  ▼ + High credit quality, attractive yields || - High sensitivity to inflation, monetary policy 
DM IG Corporate  ◆ + High credit quality, improving valuations || - Expected supply, especially in the US 
DM HY Corporate  ◆ + Attractive yield, low-rate sensitivity || - Sensitive to growth and credit quality risks 
EM USD Govt  ▲ + Attractive yield, sensitive to US rates || - EM credit quality, US trade policy risks 
EM Local Ccy Govt  ▲ + Attractive yield, benefit from USD weakness || - US trade policy risks, inflation risks 
Asia USD  ◆ + Moderate yield, low volatility || - Sensitive to China growth   
Equities ▲  
North America  ▲ + Earnings growth, AI uptrend || - US policy uncertainty 
Europe ex-UK  ▼ + Undemanding valuations, German fiscal spending || - US trade policy risks 
UK  ▼ + Attractive valuations, dividend yield || - Stagflation risks, US trade policy risks 
Japan  ◆ + Reasonable valuations, rising dividends/share buybacks || - JPY strength, US trade policy 
Asia ex-Japan  ▲ + Earnings; India, China policy support || - China growth concerns, US trade policy 
Gold ▲ + Portfolio hedge, central bank demand, falling real yields || - Resilient USD 
Source: Standard Chartered Global Investment Committee; Green = Upgrade; Red = Downgrade 
Legends:   ▲ Overweight   | ▼ Underweight   | ◆ Core

Fig. 6 Performance of our Foundation Allocations*

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; *12-month performance data from 22 April 2025 to 22 April 2026, 3-month performance from 22 
January 2026 to 22 April 2026, 1-month performance from 20 March 2026 to 22 April 2026

2 Foundation: Our tactical asset allocation


===== Page 7 =====

Global Market Outlook 7

Managing allocations in volatile markets 
The current global macro environment, marked by uncertainty around Middle East 
tensions, oil price swings and inflationary pressures, presents a formidable 
challenge for investors. Allocation management in such tricky times can benefit from 
these eight historical lessons gathered from past events , including the 2008 global 
financial crisis and the 2020 pandemic: 
Lesson 1: Investment timeframe matters 
Bear markets tend to be sharp, but short-lived. A historical analysis of global equity 
returns from 1988 to 202 6 shows that the probability of enduring negative returns 
drops substantially as the investment horizon extends. While the probability of a 
negative return is 32% over a six-month period, it falls to just 7% over a 10 -year 
period. Thus, extending the time horizon significantly increases the probability of 
earning positive returns. 
Fig. 7 Probability of return drawdown drops significantly as we extend 
investment timeframe 
Distribution of 1-month, 6-month, 12-month, 3-year, 5-year and 10-year returns of 
MSCI All Country World Index (data from 1988 to 2026)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Lesson 2: Staying invested through volatility 
Prospect theory suggests the pain of financial loss is twice as intensely felt as the joy of financial gain, often driving investors to 
exit the market when things are ugly. However, timing the market is, more often than not, a losing game. 
Fig. 8 Despite intra-year volatility, the MSCI ACWI Index had positive year-end total returns 28 out of the last 38 
years since 1988 
MSCI ACWI largest declines vs. full year returns (1988-2025)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

61% 68% 72% 80% 81%
93%
39% 32% 28%
20% 19%
7%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
1-month 6-month 1-year 3-year 5-year 10-year
Positive returns Negative returns
-60%
-40%
-20%
0%
20%
40%
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Maximum drawdown during year Full-year return

2 Perspectives on key client questions

Manpreet Gill 
Chief Investment Officer, AMEE


===== Page 8 =====

Global Market Outlook 8

In the chart above, the light blue bars represent the largest 
declines from a peak to a trough that occurred within each 
year, while the dark blue bars represent the corresponding 
return for the full calendar year. Despite significant intra -year 
volatility, the global equity index had positive year -end total 
returns in 28 out of the last 38 years since 1988. Thus, history 
shows that staying invested and riding through bear markets 
proves beneficial. 
Lesson 3: Power of diversification  
Portfolio diversification is paramount during tough times, as it 
provides investors with more staying power – better risk 
tolerance and downside protection – to absorb emotions 
during distressed periods. Diversified allocations have 
historically performed well after periods of major market 
downturns. 
Lesson 4: The cost of de-risking 
If you think your portfolio is not aligned with your long -term

objectives, or if you have a more bearish future view, you 
might want to (i) reduce exposure to risky assets or (ii) 
incrementally add adequate protection.  
That said, de -risking when market uncertainty is elevated is 
not free of risks. Rotating to a safe-haven asset , such as  
bonds, leaves you more vulnerable to a sharp rise in yields 
(bond prices fall when yields rise, a situation that played out 
in 2022). There are also  embedded opportunity costs of 
missing out on gains from potential rebounds in risk assets, 
such as equities and HY bonds. 
Lesson 5: Resilience for the long and winding road 
As we progress through a volatile economic cycle 
characterised by high interest rates and inflationary pressure, 
we believe a well -diversified, balanced allocation remains a 
prudent approach . Historically, such portfolios have  shown 
superior risk -adjusted returns ( lower risk per unit of return) 
once you look through the relatively short period of volatility. 
Fig. 9 A well-diversified allocation shows superior long-term performance 
Annualised returns and volatilities of various assets and a global balanced allocation since 2016 
 Global equity Global bond Alternatives Gold 
Global balanced 
allocation* 
Average return (ann.) 9.4% 2.0% 3.2% 10.5% 5.9% 
Average volatility (ann.) 14.4% 4.0% 4.1% 14.2% 7.5% 
Risk-adjusted return 0.65 0.51 0.79 0.74 0.78

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered. *Global balanced allocation is proxied by 4% Cash, 30% Global bonds, 42% Global Equity, 4% Gold, 
20% Alternatives.

Lesson 6: Long-volatility strategies as a hedge 
Instead of fearing volatility, long -volatility strategies seek to 
capitalise on it by providing insurance -like payoffs. However, 
appropriately sizing such strategies is key as one would 
expect these to deliver negative returns once risks recede. 
Common tec hniques to implement long -volatility strategies 
include: 
• Options: Call and put options give investors the right to 
buy or sell assets at predetermined prices 
• Strangle and straddle : These strategies allow investors 
to profit from extreme market volatility in either direction 
without needing a clear directional view 
• Volatility Index (VIX) -based instruments: The VIX fear 
gauge measures expected volatility. VIX futures and 
options, or VIX -based exchange -traded funds or notes, 
provide ways to profit from or hedge against extreme 
market swings. 
Lesson 7: Volatility targeting to stabilise portfolio risk 
Volatility targeting is an emerging quant strategy used to keep 
portfolio risk at steady levels. Methods include 
• Portfolio volatility targeting : Adjusts exposure to high -
risk assets, such as derivatives, based on market volatility 
• Dynamic volatility scaling: Adjusts allocations based on 
individual asset volatility and long-term correlations 
• Volatility switching : Uses quant models to identify 
historical patterns and realign portfolios to benefit from 
major market dislocations 
• Momentum filter : Helps limit further downside by 
avoiding investments in assets that are dipping 
Lesson 8: Keep emotions and biases under check 
Fear and panic often lead to massive sell -offs during market 
downturns. Similarly, euphoria and greed lead to heated 
valuations when the market is on an uptrend. Thus, decisions 
fuelled by anxiety often lead to poor market timing or investors 
abandoning th eir long -term financial plans. To counter this, 
investors should develop self -awareness of inherent biases, 
use well -structured investment plans, apply rule -based 
strategies – such as dollar -cost averaging and hedging – or 
consult an expert.


===== Page 9 =====

Global Market Outlook 9

Why USD 100 oil isn’t the economy-killer 
it used to be? 
Just how much should investors worry about high oil prices? 
Amid the ongoing Middle East conflict, it is not surprising 
investors are focused on energy prices, given these remain 
the main channel to global financial markets. However, many 
have been surprised by the uneven impact across different 
markets. For example, the pullback in US equities has been 
relatively muted , and the market subsequently went on to 
make a new record high.  
While we should not be complacent about downside risks, it 
is equally important to balance the downside risk with what we 
see as attractive opportunities , especially if worst -case 
scenarios fail to play out. 
Why this isn’t a 1970s sequel? 
The 1970s oil crises involved two major supply shocks – the 
1973 Arab oil embargo and the 1979 Iranian Revolution – 
which nearly quadrupled oil prices, triggered global stagflation 
(a debilitating combination of sustained high inflation and 
stagnant econom ic growth) and created severe fuel 
shortages.  
Given this historical precedent, one would have thought that 
the recent Brent crude oil price rise of about 75% since mid-
February would have resulted in markets focusing entirely on 
an upcoming inflation shock, recession risk and a 
stagflationary world ahead. However, over the same period, 
US equities fell by 7.5% and the 10-year US government bond 
yield held below 4.5% – not exactly the growth  or inflation 
shock one would have expected, given the staggering rise in 
oil prices. 
The clue sits in energy intensity – the amount of oil or gas 
needed per unit of GDP growth. Since the 1970s, energy 
intensity has fallen dramatically. 
The World Bank, for instance, estimates that the amount of oil 
required to generate one unit of global GDP growth fell from 
0.12 tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) in 1970 to 0.05 toe in 2022 
– about a 58% reduction. Researchers at the Harvard 
Kennedy School f ound that the amount of oil required to 
generate USD 1,000 of global GDP has fallen by an average 
of 1.5 litres each year since 1984. S&P Global estimates that 
oil prices would have to rise to the USD 150-200/bbl range to 
have a macroeconomic impact simila r to historical energy 
shocks over the past 60 years. 
The bottom line? Oil prices hovering around USD 100/bbl are 
high, but not as high as they were for the global economy 
during historical energy price shocks. 
Trust market resilience, but hedge the risks 
The purpose of this perspective is not to foster complacency. 
Rather, it is to remind us that both risks and opportunities lie 
in front of us.  
We certainly believe it is worthwhile to hedge against risks. 
Today’s USD 100/bbl oil prices are expected to result in at 
least a moderate rise in inflation. However, a significant 
energy shock would involve either a rise towards levels that 
had an impact previously, such as USD 150-200/bbl, or would 
result from prices staying above USD 100/bbl for a prolonged 
period, pushing the average price higher for the year. 
One preferred short-term hedge is inflation-protected 
bonds, which directly hedge yields against the US inflation 
index. Gold would also be an attractive hedge against a more 
stagflationary environment.  
Hunting for value amid uncertainty 
Downside risks notwithstanding, our baseline view continues 
to be that the current energy supply disruption is likely to be 
relatively short-lived. In this scenario, it would make sense first 
and foremost to stay invested in well -diversified portfolios, 
which in themselves offer an attractive entry point for long -
term investors. More specifically, we would look for 
opportunities in asset classes that may post the strongest 
rebound if the high energy price threat recedes.  
At the top of our shopping list are Asian equities. This is based 
on their relatively higher growth and balance -of-payment 
sensitivity to both oil prices and the USD. An easing of energy 
supply disruptions and lower oil prices is a scenario in which 
Asian equities may post the strongest recovery as downside 
risks are priced out. 
Ultimately, the goal isn’t just to survive the oil price spike, but 
to thrive beyond it. The current oil shock may very well prove 
to be a pivotal bargain-hunting opportunity this year.


===== Page 10 =====

Global Market Outlook 10

Summary

The investment landscape in April 2026 continues to be defined by heightened geopolitical tensions and a fundamental shift 
in market volatility . While investors often focus on adjusting their asset allocation weights, we recommend using a risk 
budgeting approach that considers marginal risk contribution instead. This approach allows you to identify where risk is silently 
accumulating and add resilience to your portfolio against market turmoil.  
This analysis outlines how we navigate the recent surge in volatility and shifting correlations to rebalance our 
Foundation Balanced portfolio  in an environment where traditional hedges are being tested. By rebalancing based on risk 
rather than just weight, we have improved our portfolio’s risk profile, reducing exposure to the most volatile segments while  
maintaining a constructive long-term stance.

Key findings

Fig. 10 Volatility across major asset classes 
Long-term volatilities from our Capital Market Assumptions (CMA) vs. 20-day average volatilities, as of April 2026

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Impact of current environment  
The primary driver of market risk sentiment this month 
remains the ongoing tensions between Iran and the US. Th e 
conflict has impacted non -homogeneously both correlations 
and volatilities across major asset classes.  
Elevated volatility:  Equity and bond markets have 
experienced significant swings. The largest increases in 
volatility v s. long-term assumptions were in Gold (+ 17.2%), 
followed by Japan (+16.3%) and AxJ equities (+13.3%).  
Correlation shifts: The equity -bond relationship has turned 
positive, meaning both asset classes are moving in the same 
direction, reducing the diversification benefit of bonds. 
Gold volatility has increased materially compared to other 
asset classes. Furthermore, its correlation with equities has 
risen, significantly reducing its traditional role as a reliable 
portfolio hedge. 
Within equities, A xJ and Japan have experienced the 
most significant shifts , as both regions react similarly to 
energy supply shocks and a broader risk-on sentiment. 
Current risk drivers of our Foundation 
Balanced portfolio 
The current volatility of our Tactical Asset Allocation (TAA) is 
driven by three main components: the baseline strategic risk, 
our active investment decisions and broader market impacts. 
The overall current volatility stands at 13.6% (Fig. 11) and is 
split between:  
• SAA Volatility (10.4%): The baseline risk of our strategic 
asset allocation (SAA), 
• TAA incremental volatility (0.6%):  The additional risk 
from our active overweight and underweight decisions,

2.0% 0.5% 0.5%
16.3% 13.3%
2.5%
-0.6% -5.1% -4.6% -1.0% -3.7%
17.2%
-1.4%
-10%
0%
10%
20%
30%
40%
US Europe
ex-UK
UK Japan AxJ DM
Govts
DM
IG
HY EM
Govts
(HC)
EM
Govt
(LC)
Asia
USD
Gold Cash
Long-term volatility (CMA) Current short-term volatility (April) Difference

8 Asset allocation: Navigating volatility 
through risk contribution

Sylvain Huard 
Head of Asset Allocation 
Hannah Chew 
Portfolio Strategist


===== Page 11 =====

Global Market Outlook 11

• Short-term incremental volatility (2.5%): The additional 
risk caused by current volatilities and correlations. 
Fig. 11 Current risk drivers' contribution  
Volatility contribution of our Foundation Balanced portfolio

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered, April 2026 
This breakdown highlights that while our active tilts add a 
modest amount of risk, most of the recent increase is due to 
the market environment. This reinforces the need for a 
disciplined, risk-based approach when rebalancing. 
Long- vs. short-term: Changes in marginal 
risk contribution (MRC) 
Asset weights and assets ’ contributions to total portfolio risk 
are not the same. The lat ter depends not only on its size but 
also on its individual volatility and correlation with other 
holdings. MRC provides a more granular view, identifying 
where risk may be building up even if headline weights remain 
stable. 
Risk profiles can shift dramatically even with minor 
allocation changes (Fig. 12). Over the long term, equities are 
52.5% of portfolio weight , adding 9% volatility. By April, a 
small increase in weight to 53.7% saw a risk contribution rise 
to 10.3%, as market volatility intensified, representing a 10% 
increase compared to the overall portfolio risk. 
Fig. 12 MRC of our Foundation Balanced portfolio 
Weights and MRC comparison between long-term 
assumptions (based on CMAs) and current environment

SAA 
(based on CMAs)

Current TAA 
(April 2026)

Weights MRC

Weights MRC 
Equity 52.5% 9.0%

53.7% 10.3% 
Fixed Income 37.5% 1.1%

37.5% 2.1% 
Gold 5.0% 0.2%

6.3% 1.1% 
Cash 5.0% 0.0%

2.6% 0.0% 
Total 100% 10.4%

100% 13.6%

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered, April 2026

Risk budgeting adjustments in April applied to 
our Balanced Model Portfolio 
Our rebalancing decisions were specifically targeted at every 
level, where small weight adjustments could yield significant 
improvements in the portfolio’s risk profile (Fig. 13). 
Fig. 13 Weight and MRC changes 
Month-over-month changes between March and April 2026

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered, April 2026 
Trimming AxJ for disproportionate risk relief: We reduced 
AxJ weight by just 0.1%, yet this drove a sizeable 3.2% 
reduction in its risk contribution, showing how trimming even 
small, highly volatile, energy -sensitive exposures can 
materially lower overall portfolio stress. 
Optimising gold exposure : Cutting weight by 1% led to a 
4.8% drop in its risk contribution, an essential move as its 
volatility spiked and hedging effectiveness declined. 
Managing the US equity risk surge: Despite a 0.2% cut in 
weight, risk contribution rose by 4.9% due to the broader 
market regime. This adjustment aims to actively manage risk 
and keep the portfolio volatility within an acceptable range. 
Reallocating to high -quality bonds : We increased DM 
government bonds (+1.4%), adding only 1.1% to portfolio risk 
to strengthen the portfolio without excessive volatility. 
These adjustments led to a more resilient risk profile and a 
better-positioned portfolio in the current market environment 
while maintaining our tactical investment convictions.
SAA
volatility
TAA 
incremental 
volatility 
Short-term 
incremental 
volatility 
Total 
volatility 
0%
2%
4%
6%
8%
10%
12%
14%
16%
10.4% 0.6%
2.5% 13.6%
-0.4%
2.1%
-1.0%
-0.7%
2.8%
1.9%
-4.8%
Equity
Fixed Income
Gold
Cash
Weight changes (MoM) Risk contribution changes (MoM)
4.9%
1.3%
0.1%
-0.2%
-3.2%
1.1%
-0.3%
-0.2%
0.5%
0.9%
-0.2%
-0.1%
-0.1%
1.4%
-0.8%
0.8%
0.8%
US
Europe ex-UK
UK
Japan
AxJ
DM Govts
DM IG
HY
EM Govts HC
EM Govt LC
Asia USD


===== Page 12 =====

Global Market Outlook 12

Key themes

Core scenario (soft landing, 60% probability): We expect the Strait of Hormuz to reopen to traffic in the next few weeks, given 
the constraints on both the US and Iran which argue against a prolonged blockade. This is likely to sustain our base scenario of 
an economic soft landing this year. While near -term inflation is likely to rise with elevated oil prices, an early resolution should 
keep long-term inflation expectations in check, allowing central banks to focus on fundamentals. As near-term inflation rises, we 
expect the Fed to hold rates in H1 but eventually cut by 25bps in H2 as focus turns to reviving the job market. The ECB is likely 
to hike rates once and the BoJ twice to counter inflation, while China eases policy to encourage consumption-led growth.  
Downside risk (hard landing, 30% probability): We raise the risk of a hard landing from 25% if the Middle East conflict leaves 
oil prices significantly higher for longer, delaying Fed rate cuts and negatively impacting real incomes and consumption. A stock 
market downturn hurting investor confidence and/or a bond selloff on inflation and/or debt concerns are other tail risks. 
Upside risk (no landing, 10% probability): In the event of a swift resolution in the Middle East, there is still a chance that US 
tax and Fed rate cuts, fiscal easing in Germany, China and Japan and a potential rollback of US tariffs could revive animal spirits. 
A Russia-Ukraine peace deal, a US-China grand bargain or EU-wide defence spending can potentially lift global growth.

Key chart  
The Fed is likely to focus on 
reviving growth and the job 
market in H2 by cutting rates; 
the ECB, being an inflation- 
targeting bank, is likely to 
deliver an insurance hike to 
counter inflation pressures; 
China, facing low inflation, is 
likely to ease policy 
 Fig. 14 The US faces growth risk, the Euro area stagflation risk due to the Iran crisis 
Consensus estimates for 2026 GDP growth and inflation across major economies

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Policy rates watch  
Fed to hold in H1, cut rates by 25bps to 3.5% by 
December: The US economy was poised for a soft landing 
before the Middle East conflict. Real consumer spending had 
slowed in February, wage growth was decelerating, consumer 
confidence was depressed and the job market was stalling . 
The surge in gasoline prices has delivered an estimated 0.5% 
of GDP equivalent hit to consumer disposable incomes, 
raising the risk of a Q2 growth slowdown. That said, under our 
base scenario of a short -lived conflict wherein the  Strait of 
Hormuz reopens by May and oil prices retreat towards  USD 
80-90/bbl, the pre -existing US soft -landing story reasserts 
itself, with growth in 2026 estimated just below the 2% trend. 
Corporate margins would be preserved, and the energy shock 
would be absorbed as a temporary soft patch rather than a 
structural downturn. 
A short-lived conflict implies the inflationary impulse remains 
transitory. Inflation swaps are pricing in around 3.3% inflation 
over the next 12 months, but with job markets at a fragile 
equilibrium and wage growth and shelter inflation 
decelerating, the risk of a 1970s-style wage-price spiral is low. 
Tariffs continue to push core goods inflation 3ppt above pre -
tariff trends, keeping inflation sticky even as energy risks fade. 
Against this backdrop, the Fed is likely to remain on pause in 
H1 amid concerns about persistent inflation overshoots and 
wary of energy -price pressures. Nevertheless, under a new 
Chair (once Warsh is confirmed), it is likely to focus on reviving 
a soft job market and resume rate cuts. We expect a 25bps 
cut by December vs. less than half a cut priced by markets. 
ECB to hike rate by 25bps to 2.25% by 2026-end: The Euro 
area economy entered the Middle East conflict with a recovery 
forming beneath the surface, with Germany’s fiscal stimulus 
showing up in factory orders via defence and infrastructure 
demand. If the Strait of Hormuz reopens by May, as the 
central case now suggests, Europe is well -placed for a 
modest rebound, with GDP growth estimated around 1% for 
3.1
2.8
2.0
1.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
Apr-25 Aug-25 Dec-25 Apr-26
US Euro area Japan China

6 Macro overview – at a glance

Rajat Bhattacharya 
Senior Investment Strategist


===== Page 13 =====

Global Market Outlook 13 
2026. The key structural tailwind remains Germany's EUR 
500bn infrastructure and climate spending programme, which 
carries large fiscal multipliers. That said, the energy shock has 
added meaningful tail risks: under pessimistic assumptions, 
the annual cost could be roughly 0.7-0.9% of GDP. 
A short -lived conflict limits the inflationary damage. March 
inflation jumped to 2.6% y/y, driven entirely by energy inflation 
rising to 5.1% y/y from -3.1% in February, with no evidence of 
passthrough to core goods, food or services. Crucially, Euro 
area long-term inflation expectations remain anchored around 
2%, supported by the ECB's demonstrated determination to 
rectify any persistent overshoot. Under a muddle through 
scenario, headline inflation remains manageable. 
The ECB has pivoted away from its initially hawkish tone, with 
some policymakers signalling they are in no rush to hike, 
preferring to assess the size and persistence of the inflation 
shock. The April meeting is unlikely to deliver a move, with 
any rate hike more likely in H2. The Euro area jobless rate is 
near record lows, but weaker demand and reduced household 
savings buffers cap the tightening the ECB can deliver. We 
expect one 25bps insurance hike to 2.25% by year-end 2026.  
China to ease monetary/fiscal policies to support growth. 
China entered the Middle East conflict from a position of 
relative structural resilience. Q1 2026 GDP surprised to the 
upside, growing 5.0% y/y, accelerating from 4.5% in Q4 2025, 
driven by strong exports and a rebound in infrastructure 
investment. A short-lived conflict is broadly benign for China's 
growth outlook. Unlike most large energy importers, China's 
total energy exposure to the Middle East via oil and gas 
amounts to a manageable 6.5% of total energy consumption, 
cushioned further by sizable strategic crude reserves of 
approximately 1.2bn barrels (c. 108 days of import cover) and 
the ability to substitute through Russian crude. Critically, a 
short-lived conflict could even prove a net positive: China is 
the world's leading green -technology powerhouse, and the 
energy shock has already triggered a surge in global orders 
for Chinese EVs, solar panels, wind turbines and energy 
storage systems. Green tech now accounts for 11% of China's 
GDP. Given this, we expect 2026 GDP growth to hit the 4.5 -
5% target, further supported by infrastructure investment. 
China’s deflationary pressures are easing, but the outlook 
remains structurally disinflationary. Productivity gains and 
supply-side improvements mean the disinflation impulse from 
industrial and housing overcapacity persists even as domestic 
spending rises gradually. Inflation is unlikely to hit the 
government's 2% target amid weak domestic demand, a still-
fragile property sector, and subdued consumer confidence. 
With activity stabilising at subdued levels, the PBoC is likely 
to stay firmly accommodative, with a 10bps rate cut, another 
reserve ratio reduction, alongside managed RMB 
appreciation in 2026. On the fiscal side, the augmented deficit 
is likely to expand marginally this year, with additional focus 
on effective spending and boosting investment. 
BoJ to hike rates by 50bps to 1.25% by December: Japan’s 
economy entered the Middle East conflict with significant 
domestic momentum. Wage growth has accelerated sharply, 
with contractual cash earnings rising at the strongest pace in 
decades, while Tankan business conditions remain robust. 
However, as one of the world's largest net energy importers, 
Japan is acutely exposed to oil price shocks. If the Strait of 
Hormuz reopens by May, the energy drag could fade and 
Japan's domestic re -acceleration story could reassert itself. 
We expect GDP growth to be supported by accelerating wage 
growth and a structurally undervalued JPY. 
Japan's inflation dynamics are at a critical juncture. Inflation 
expectations are at risk of un -anchoring upwards from 2%. 
The energy shock has added a stagflationary impulse, likely 
pushing headline inflation higher while simultaneously 
weighing on corporate profits and consumption. 
Thus, the Middle East conflict has complicated the BoJ's 
normalisation path: having signalled a hawkish stance after its 
March meeting, the BoJ pivoted to a more cautious tone in 
April, with Governor Ueda emphasising two-way risks to both 
growth and inflat ion. We expect the BoJ to hold rates in H1 
and deliver the next rate hike in Q3, with a subsequent hike to 
1.25% expected in December. On the fiscal side, the Takaichi 
administration has signalled close co -operation with the BoJ, 
with fiscal support antici pated to be broadly commensurate 
with the negative income impact of the oil shock, helping 
cushion the economy through the near-term soft patch.

Fig. 15 Fed to cut rates in H2 to revive a soft job market  Fig. 16 Central bank rates outlooks to diverge in H2 
US quarterly job creation   Consensus estimates for policy rate changes by end-2026

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1*
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
'000s
US non-farm payrolls
-20
0
20
40
60
80
US
Switzerland
Canada
Japan
UK
Euro area
Australia
New Zealand
Estimated policy rate 
change by Dec-26
Developed Markets


===== Page 14 =====

Global Market Outlook 14

Our view

Foundation: We view fixed income as a Core Holding. Within the asset class, we continue to Overweight EM USD and LCY 
bonds while maintaining an Underweight stance on DM government bonds. The potential US-Iran truce has already attracted 
inflows back to EM assets and should continue to support EM government bond performance, alongside improving fundamentals 
and more attractive valuations v s. DM peers. We have moved DM HY back to a Core Holding from Overweight, as strong 
performance in April has brought credit spreads close to recent tights. Wh ile we still find absolute yields attractive, we do not 
expect income from yields alone to drive further outperformance. Corporate fundamentals remain resilient, with leverage metrics 
largely stable and interest coverage ratios strong. This underpins our preference for credit over rates. 
Opportunistic ideas: We are bullish (i) European bank AT1 bonds (CoCos 1; FX-hedged), (ii) US TIPS, (iii) short -duration US 
HY bonds, (iv) AAA-rated collateralised loan obligations (CLOs), (v) US utilities’ corporate hybrids and (vi) AUD corporate bonds.

Key charts

Fig. 17 Summary of rate forecasts

Region Horizon 2-year 10-year 30-year

US 3m 3.75-4.00% 4.25-4.50% 4.75-5.00% 
12m 3.25-3.50% 3.75-4.00% 4.75-5.00%

Eurozone 3m 2.50-2.75% 3.00-3.25% 3.50-3.75% 
12m 2.25-2.50% 2.75-3.00% 3.25-3.50%

Japan 3m 1.25-1.50% 2.25-2.50% 3.50-3.75% 
12m 1.50-1.75% 2.25-2.50% 3.50-3.75%

Source: Standard Chartered

DM rates – Underweight 
We are Underweight DM Investment Grade ( IG) 
government bonds. In the US, we expect the term premium 
(compensation for holding long -duration bonds) to rise amid 
reflation expectations, a growing fiscal burden and concerns 
over the Fed’s independence. We now expect the Fed to cut 
rates once, to 3.5% by 2026 -end, assuming the Strait of 
Hormuz reopens, and as the Fed shifts its focus toward s 
emerging weakness in the labour market. We expect the US 
curve to bull-steepen as markets begin pricing in a resumption 
of Fed rate cuts. We continue to favour positioning in the belly 
of the curve (5 -7 years) and remain Underweight long-dated 
tenors. We believe higher energy prices will have a greater 
impact on the Euro area and Japan. We expect both the ECB 
and BoJ to raise policy rates – once for the ECB and twice for 
the BoJ by 2026 -end – leading their government bonds to 
underperform the US’ on an FX-hedged basis.

Fig. 18 DM IG corporate spreads retrace following  
US-Iran peace talks 
Bloomberg Global Agg Corp index, OAS-spread

Fig. 19 DM HY corporate spreads tighten back towards 
the lows 
Bloomberg Global HY Corp Index, OAS-spread

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

81.0
111.5
70
90
110
130
150
170
190
Feb-21 Nov-22 Aug-24 May-26
bps
OAS spread 5-year-avg OAS spread
289.2
374.6
200
300
400
500
600
700
Feb-21 Nov-22 Aug-24 May-26
bps
Index OAS 5-year-avg

7 Fixed Income – at a glance

Jonathan Liang, CFA 
CIO, Fixed Income & FX 
Cedric Lam 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Ray Heung 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Anthony Naab, CFA 
Investment Strategist


===== Page 15 =====

Global Market Outlook 15 
DM corporates – Core holding  
We have moved DM HY corporate bonds back to Neutral. 
Since the peace talks resumed, DM HY spreads have 
retraced most of the earlier widening . W e do not expect 
income from yield alone to support further outperformance. 
We continue to maintain a Neutral allocation to DM IG 
corporate bonds. While DM IG spreads have also retraced 
from the recent wides, the move has been less pronounced 
than in DM HY. In our view, AI capex-related supply pressures 
are likely to remain a longer -term overhang on sentiment for 
DM I G. Nevertheless, fundamentals for both IG and HY 
corporates remain resilient, supported by solid profitability and 
stable credit metrics.  
EM bonds – Overweight 
We prefer EM bonds over DM bonds due to their more

attractive yields. We are Overweight both EM USD sovereign 
bonds and EM LCY government bonds . While some EM 
assets remain susceptible to geopolitical uncertainty, most 
EM economies have bolstered their fiscal positions and 
current account balances in recent years. Their robust 
external balances, alongside our expectation of a weak USD, 
should support external debt servicing. In addition, leading EM 
USD bond issuers are net oil exporters, which we believe 
should remain resilient, particularly once the Middle East 
conflicts conclude and oil exports resume. 
We retain our Neutral allocation to Asia USD bonds , which 
offer reasonably attractive nominal yields, favourable supply -
demand dynamics and strong credit fundamentals, supported 
by higher cashflows, relatively low leverage and a higher 
proportion of sovereign or sovereign-linked issuers. 
Fig. 20 EM USD yields look tight relative to DM but still 
offer 2%-plus pickup 
Bloomberg EM USD Quasi/Sov 10% Capped Index, yield to 
worst, and yield over Bloomberg Global Treasury Index

Fig. 21 EM LCY yields remain attractive  
Bloomberg EM LCY Govt Index, yield to worst


===== Page 16 =====

Global Market Outlook 16

Our view

We remain Overweight global equities. Although the Middle East conflict remains volatile, so far we remain comfortable with 
our expectation for mid-teens earnings growth in 2026 driving global equities higher. We remain Overweight US equities, where 
the heavyweight technology sector continues to benefit from AI investments. With the US Q1 26 earnings season underway, we 
look for corporate guidance to validate resilient fundamentals. We are also Overweight Asia ex-Japan (AxJ) equities, where 
technology is the largest sector and is also a beneficiary of AI capex. 
Within AxJ, we have a diversified preference. Our Overweight stance on Taiwan reflects our positive view on semiconductor -
driven earnings growth, while our Overweight on China reflects an attractive valuation re-rating potential amid resilient growth 
and policy support. Meanwhile, our Overweight on India reflects strong domestic growth and is less correlated to the AI theme. 
We have a Core allocation to Japan, where expansionary fiscal plans are a positive offset to energy import sensitivities. We 
remain Underweight Europe ex-UK and UK equities, which have relatively muted earnings growth.

Key chart  
US and AxJ equities are 
leading other regions in 2026 
Index 
12m 
forecast* 
Our 
views 
S&P500 7,750 
US ▲ 
Nasdaq 100 29,700 
Euro Stoxx 50 6,150 Europe 
ex-UK ▼ 
FTSE 100 10,900 UK ▼ 
Hang Seng 28,300 China ▲ 
Nifty 50 26,300 India ▲ 
Nikkei 225 63,400 Japan ◆

Fig. 22 Earnings growth is positive across all global sectors, led by technology; 
corporate earnings growth estimates for AxJ and the US are leading other regions  
Earnings growth by sectors in the MSCI AC World Index in 2026 and 2027; consensus 12-
month forward earnings growth estimates and price-earnings ratio for MSCI equity indices

Source: FactSet, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
* Target prices created as of 24 April 2026. 
Legends: ▲ Most preferred | ▼ Least preferred | ◆ Core holding

Staying positive  
The rally in global equities at the start of 2026 was interrupted 
by the Middle East conflict at the end of February. While the 
path to peace will be volatile, recent ceasefire talks point to 
some form of de-escalation. As we assess the impact on global 
growth prospects, we remain positive that earnings can 
continue to deliver solid growth, supporting equities higher. 
Amid geopolitical risks, AI developments continue to make 
progress, sustaining solid earnings growth in the technology  
sector. This underpins our Overweight view on the US and AxJ 
equities, where tech is the largest sector. In addition, we expect 
an H2 26 Fed rate cut to offer liquidity support to US assets. 
The AxJ region is vulnerable to oil price spikes, so conflict de-
escalation should be a tailwind for growth. Moreover, we expect 
a weak USD over the next 12 months to be a tailwind for AxJ.  
Within AxJ, we are Overweight Taiwan, consistent with the AI 
investment theme driving strong growth in the semiconductor 
industry. However, we also seek out other drivers with our 
Overweight on China and India. China remains at an attractive 
valuation discount, supported by resilient growth. China is also 
pursuing tech innovation with its 15th Five-Year Plan. 
Meanwhile, India offers mid -teens earnings growth, which is 
less correlated to the AI theme and driven by domestic factors. 
As an oil importer, India is vulnerable to the Middle East conflict. 
However, India’s P/E valuation has also de-rated below its five-
year average now, pricing in much of the risks, in our view.  
Japan has outperformed global equities YTD, with optimism 
around the Takaichi government’s fiscal plans. We believe a 
normalisation of monetary policy is also positive for earnings 
growth. However, after the solid performance YTD, we expect 
it to perform in line with global equities in the next 6-12 months. 
Healthcare
Staples
Real estate
Financials
Utilities
Communication
Industrials
Discretionary
Energy
Materials
Technology
MSCI AC World
-10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Consensus earnings
growth (%)
2026
2027
0
5
10
15
20
25
0
10
20
30
40
50
AC
World
AxJ US UK Europe
ex-UK
Japan
x
%
12-month forward EPS growth
12-month forward P/E ratio (RHS)

8 Equity – at a glance

Sundeep Gantori, CFA, CAIA 
Chief Investment Officer, Equities 
Fook Hien Yap 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Michelle Kam, CFA 
Investment Strategist 
Jason Wong 
Senior Equity Analyst


===== Page 17 =====

Global Market Outlook 17

Add global gold miners idea 
• We initiate an Opportunistic idea on global gold 
miners. We are constructive on gold prices and expect 
investors to look through near -term liquidity -driven 
weakness. Structural tailwinds remain, including solid 
central bank demand and expectations of a Fed rate cut in 
H2 26. These factors should enhance gold’s appeal and 
support earnings growth for gold miners.  
• We take profit on Europe an banks, locking in a 6.8% 
gain (11 December 2025 -23 April 2026). The sector has 
rebounded strongly since early April on the back of solid 
Q4 25 earnings and a less dovish ECB to support net 
interest income. We are taking profit following the sharp 
rebound to reduce exposure to macro risks. 
• We take profit on China non -financial high -dividend 
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) (H-shares), locking in 
a 56.3% gain (27 March 2024-23 April 2026). The theme 
has benefit ted from government stimulus and investor 
demand for stable dividend income. We remain 
Overweight China equities within AxJ, and our pro ‑risk 
positioning favours a rotation towards more 
growth‑oriented sectors. 
Fig. 23 Opportunistic ideas 
Region Idea 
Global 
Gold miners* 
Global ex-US buybacks 
Global semiconductors 
US US utilities 
US aerospace and defence 
Asia Hang Seng Technology

Source: Standard Chartered. * New idea  
Ongoing ideas 
Global ex-US buybacks: The idea performed well over the 
past month as firms with disciplined capital allocation and a 
strong commitment to shareholder returns outperformed 
under heightened market volatility. Exposure is concentrated 
in financials and energy, supported by strong balance sheets 
and robust cash‑generation. A sharp fall in oil prices is a risk. 
Global semiconductors: We favour this industry within the 
tech sector, supported by accelerating AI -related capex and 
sustained memory chip demand.  With recent valuation de -
rating, the sector offers an attractive entry point. Geopolitical 
tensions resulting in supply chain disruption is a risk. 
US utilities: The sector benefits from accelerating capex and 
rising power demand driven by AI‑related data centre growth. 
It also provides a defensive exposure for portfolio 
diversification, while lower power prices pose a risk. 
US aerospace and defence:  Projected upward revisions in 
the US defence spending budget are likely to support earnings 
growth, on top of structural demand for air travel. Weaker -
than-expected defence spending is a risk. 
Hang Seng Technology: Tech innovation remains a priority 
under China’s 15th Five-Year Plan. The strong AI-related IPO 
pipeline supports investor sentiment, while valuations are 
reasonable. Adverse regulatory changes are risks. 
Sector views: Maintain a barbell approach 
We upgrade US communication services to Overweight , 
amid an improving digital advertising environment and 
growing opportunities to monetise AI investments. Together 
with an Overweight stance on US technology, this provides 
growth exposure within a barbell strategy, balanced by 
defensive exposure to US healthcare and US utilities. The 
latter two sectors offer stable earnings , driven by resilient 
demand across economic cycles, enhancing portfolio 
resilience. We remain Overweight Europe ex-UK financials 
despite closing the short -term European banks opportunistic 
idea, given attractive shareholder returns. 
Our China sector allocation remains unchanged. We expect 
technology and communication services  to continue 
benefiting from tech innovation and supportive government 
policies. Meanwhile we see the healthcare sector  
strengthening, reflected in the improving quality and long-term 
potential of Chinese drug discovery and innovation. 
Fig. 24 Our sector views  
Global top preferred 
sectors 
US technology 
US communication 
US healthcare 
US utilities 
Europe ex-UK financials

China sectors 
Technology 
Communication 
Healthcare 
Financials 
Discretionary 
Materials 
Industrials 
Energy 
Staples 
Utilities 
Real estate

Source: Standard Chartered 
Legends:  Overweight  |  Core  |  Underweight

8 Equity opportunistic views

Sundeep Gantori, CFA, CAIA 
Chief Investment Officer, Equities 
Fook Hien Yap 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Michelle Kam, CFA 
Investment Strategist 
Jason Wong 
Senior Equity Analyst


===== Page 18 =====

Global Market Outlook 18

Our view

• We remain Overweight gold but trim our 3- and 12-month gold price targets to USD 5,200/oz and USD 5,500/oz, respectively 
• We raise our three-month West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil price forecast to USD 80-90/bbl on expectations that full 
output normalisation will take time.

Key charts

Fig. 25 Structural buying from central banks continues 
to support prices higher, despite a minority net selling 
Largest changes in gold reserves in February 2026

Fig. 26 Gold-silver ratio has recovered towards 
historical average 
Gold-silver ratio

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered   Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Fig. 27 Strait of Hormuz flows highlight Asia’s reliance 
on Gulf crude  
Crude and condensates flows by destination (*H1 2025)

Fig. 28 WTI futures indicate near-term tight supplies, 
but prices are expected to fall by H2 as conflict eases  
Oil supply-demand balance, price estimates

Source: EIA, Vortex, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Gold outlook:  Gold’s recent strength reflects a still -intact 
structural bull case underpinned by safe -haven demand, 
geopolitical risk and diversification away from US assets. We 
expect episodes of central bank selling to remain sporadic, 
with still-net positive overall official demand providing a firm 
anchor. 
Oil outlook:  Our base case assumes a two -phase 
normalisation. While transit flows should recover quickly in a 
scenario where shipping routes reopen, physical supply is 
expected to lag as upstream and export infrastructure damage 
delays a return to pre-conflict output. Lower global inventories 
also reduce the market’s buffer. While we still expect a return 
towards surplus into late 2026, a two-phase recovery and the 
need for inventory rebuilding mean prices are likely to stay in 
the USD 80-90/bbl range for now, with a return to USD 70/bbl 
likely only over a longer 12-month horizon.
-16
-8
0
8
16
24
Turkey
Russian
Federation
Malaysia
Czech Republic
Kazakhstan,
Rep. of
Uzbekistan,
Rep. of
Poland, Rep. of
Tonnes
61.5
67.8
25
45
65
85
105
125
Mar-98 Aug-07 Jan-17 Jun-26
Index
Gold-silver ratio Average
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
China India South
Korea
Japan other
Asia
Europe United
States
Other
Mb/d
Volume of crude oil and condensate

15 Gold, crude oil – at a glance

Anthony Naab, CFA 
Investment Strategist


===== Page 19 =====

Global Market Outlook 19

USD view

We have revised down our three-month forecast for the US Dollar Index (DXY) to 96 from 100, with our 12-month forecast 
unchanged at 96. The Middle East conflict, which led to the recent oil price spikes, has highlighted the US’ status as a leading 
energy producer and exporter, leading investors to price in the improvement in their terms of trade from the rise in WTI oil price. 
Assuming the current conflict broadly de-escalates in the coming 3 months and energy prices moderate, the outlook points to 
further underperformance of the USD, and our 12-month target illustrates that most of the adjustment is expected to be front -
loaded. However, the risk of a sudden resurgence in hostilities remains a persistent threat, sustaining investor caution and 
causing currency pairs to largely trade sideways in the near term. Consequently, despite expectations of delayed Fed rate cuts, 
once tensions in the Middle East subside, this should contribute to a depreciation of the USD. 
In our view, significant policy actions by major central banks have already been largely factored into market 
expectations for year -end 2026, with the DXY likely to stabilise around 96 unless fresh catalysts arise. However, this 
outlook faces several risks, including a renewed surge in inflation, a shift towards a more hawkish approach by the Fed or further 
geopolitical shocks. Any of these developments could reignite demand for the USD.

Key charts

Fig. 29 Narrowing interest rate differentials likely to 
drive USD downside risk on a 12-month horizon 
DXY, weighted interest rate differentials & five-year average  
Fig. 30 RBNZ to significantly outpace most central 
banks in magnitude of rate hikes, supporting NZD 
Market expectations of major central bank rate changes as of 
23 April 2026

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Fig. 31 NZD upside expected on rate differentials 
advantage amid hawkish RBNZ 
NZD/USD, NZ-US interest rate differentials 
 Fig. 32  USD/CHF downside risk remains. Diversify 
away from excessive exposure to CHF as carry currency 
USD/JPY and forecast levels

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
98.1100.2
96
96
1.0
1.4
 0.4
 0.9
 1.4
 1.9
 2.4
90
100
110
120
130
Mar-21 Feb-23 Jan-25 Dec-26
%
USD
DXY
DXY 5y average
DXY weighted interest rate differentials (RHS)
5y average (rate)
Forecast DXY
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
FED SNB BOC BOJ BOE ECB RBA RBNZ
bps
By June 2026 By year-end 2026
0.59
-0.24
-1.20
-0.80
-0.40
0.00
0.40
0.54
0.57
0.60
0.63
0.66
Mar-24 Nov-24 Jul-25 Mar-26
%
NZD/USD NZ-US yield differentials (RHS)
0.78
0.76 0.740.70
0.78
0.86
0.94
1.02
Mar-21 Feb-23 Jan-25 Dec-26
USD/CHF Forecast

10 FX – at a glance

Jonathan Liang, CFA 
CIO, Fixed Income & FX 
Iris Yuen 
Investment Strategist


===== Page 20 =====

Global Market Outlook 20 
Fig. 33 Summary of currency forecasts and drivers

Currency 3m 12m Rationale

EUR/USD 1.21 1.20 
• Bullish EUR/USD: We expect the ECB to maintain a cautious yet hawkish approach, with 
one rate hike by year-end 2026. We see safe-haven demand for the USD reducing, 
prompting currency flows back towards Europe. The EUR has emerged as the second-best 
performing G10 currency over the past month, defying predictions that the energy shock 
caused by the Middle East conflict would negatively impact Europe’s economy.

GBP/USD 1.35 1.30 
• Revise GBP/USD to bullish: The hawkish shift in BoE policy expectations is likely to 
support the pair. Markets are increasingly pricing in rate hikes to combat inflation, restoring 
the currency's yield advantage. Additionally, GBP is viewed as fundamentally undervalued 
and oversold against the EUR based on real rate differentials.

USD/JPY 160 152 
• USD/JPY rangebound with bearish bias. The upside risk is capped by intervention risks 
near the 160 level. We see it skewed towards downside risks stemming from the JPY’s 
extreme fundamental undervaluation and an expected narrowing of yield differentials, 
potentially triggering a corrective rally. Inflation expectations strengthen H2 rate hike hopes.

AUD/USD 0.73 0.75 
• AUD/USD upside remains: The pair is likely supported by a hawkish RBA, which remains 
more restrictive than its peers to combat persistent inflation. This supports a widening yield 
advantage. Meanwhile, improving Chinese economic data and potential stimulus measures 
bolster demand for Australian commodity exports, providing a strong fundamental tailwind.

NZD/USD 0.60 0.61 
• Bullish NZD/USD: The RBNZ is committed to high interest rates to curb sticky inflation, 
maintaining a favourable yield spread. A recovery in global risk sentiment and improving 
demand from key trading partners (eg: China) bolster its outlook as high-beta growth play.

USD/CAD 1.35 1.34 
• USD/CAD range with bearish bias: High oil prices are likely to continue to support the 
CAD. If domestic labour market weakness continues, the oil advantage will not be enough 
to prevent an upside risk, which is not our base case.

USD/CNH 6.80 6.75 
• Bearish USD/CNH: The PBoC could continue to guide the CNH via strong daily fixings. 
Potential Chinese fiscal stimulus and improving economic data could attract capital inflows, 
while a narrowing US-China yield spread as the Fed pivots would further pressure the pair.

USD/CHF 0.76 0.74 
• Bearish USD/CHF: The Swiss growth outlook is expected to improve if a trade agreement 
is ultimately reached and supported by resilient domestic demand. The SNB is expected to 
shift towards a hawkish stance to restore policy flexibility by year-end 2026.

USD/SGD 1.25 1.24 
• The Monetary Authority of Singapore has tightened its monetary policy, strengthening 
the SGD and combating rising inflation. The sustained investor confidence is reflected in 
strong foreign direct investment (FDI), providing long-term structural support to the SGD.

USD/INR - 90 
• Remain bearish USD/INR: India now faces only a 10% tariff under Section 122 following a 
US trade deal and US Supreme Court action, which should support exports and 
manufacturing recovery. With growth headwinds easing, the Reserve Bank of India is likely 
to maintain rates for an extended period.

USD/MYR - 3.80 • Bearish USD/MYR: FDI inflows into data centres, driven by the AI trend and Malaysia’s 
strong growth prospects, support a positive outlook for the MYR.

USD/KRW - 1,430 
• Bearish USD/KRW: The Bank of Korea’s higher consumer inflation forecast is positive for 
the KRW. With Asia’s heavyweight chipmakers riding the AI wave and attracting fresh 
global capital, we see the KRW recovering its recent losses.

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered


===== Page 21 =====

Global Market Outlook 21

Summary

Our 3-6-month stock-bond model maintains a score of +4 out of 5, reflecting a sizeable Overweight in global equities. 
The allocation to global equities was increased in March following market weakness triggered by the Middle East conflict. The  
rationale of maintaining this positioning remains unchanged: (i) more attractive valuation for DM equities, (ii) still-supportive 
fundamentals and (iii) a healthy market breadth, with more than 89% of equity markets trading above their 200 -day moving 
averages (DMAs). While some economic data ha s recently come in weaker than expected, investor sentiment has improved 
after global equities rebounded strongly. As a result, the model has delivered a 5.9% gain YTD and is now ahead of the traditional 
60/40 equity-bond benchmark by 1.67%, largely due to the timely increase in equity allocation.  
Our 1-3-month short-term equity models for S&P500 and MSCI AC World also turned bullish in early April. Both models 
are heavily driven by option-market implied volatility indicators, including the Volatility Index (VIX), which has normalised sharply 
– falling from a late-March peak of 31% to below 20%. While there are early signs of renewed upward pressure on VIX as the 
US-Iran peace talks have stalled, markets appear more resilient and less reactive than during the initial phase of the conflict in 
February. That said, the model signal for MSCI AC World is relatively more cautious due to a widening trading range and 
heightened global sensitivity to inflation-related shocks.  
Our market diversity indicator places USD/CNH and Europe energy sector on the watchlist for potential reversals. 
Investor positionings in both are becoming increasingly stretched, but they have yet to reach levels that trigger a reversal signal. 
Market diversity indicators for the US has normalised after its recent pullbacks.

Key chart  
Our stock-bond model 
increased its Overweight 
allocation to equity in 
March, on the back of 
improved equity valuation, 
still-supportive 
fundamentals and healthy 
market breadth.  
 Fig. 34 Breakdown of our stock-bond rotation model’s scores  
Model score for April 2026 remains at +4 (every mid-month)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered, 15-April-2026

Our short-term models 
turned bullish on equities 
as option-market implied 
volatilities tapered off 
sharply.

Fig. 35 Our technical model turned bullish on S&P500 
S&P500 Index; model’s bearish signal; technical support and resistance levels

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered, 22-April-2026

-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Apr-24 Apr-25 Apr-26
Fundamental Valuation Market breadth Model
OW
Equities
OW 
Bonds
7,418
7,698
6,587
6,037
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
5,500
6,000
6,500
7,000
7,500
8,000
Jun-22 Jan-23 Sep-23 Apr-24 Dec-24 Aug-25 Mar-26
Index
Bearish signal S&P500 R1 R2 S1 S2

15 Quant perspective: Bullish equities  
 Francis Lim 
Senior Quantitative Strategist 
Maggie, Au Yeung 
Quantitative Analyst


===== Page 22 =====

Global Market Outlook 22 
Fig. 36 Long- and short-term quantitative models remain bullish risk assets 
Long-term models below have a typical time horizon of 3-6 months, while short-term models have a 1-3-month horizon

Long-term Stock or bond Equity and bond market risks Global inflation-growth regime 
Current view Bullish equities  
(3-6 months) 
Neutral equity, high govt. 
bond market risks 
Steady inflation and growth 
rates 
What 
factors is 
this view 
based on? 
• Fundamental: +1. The 
Economic Surprise Index 
turned negative but offset by 
improved risk sentiment.  
• Valuation: +2. DM equity 
valuation improved, while 
valuation for Asian equity 
remains attractive. 
• Market breadth: +1. 89% of 
equity markets are above their 
200-DMAs, supporting global 
equity uptrend.  
• Equity risk: Neutral. Long-term 
momentum remains supportive 
of trend. Lower inflation and 
broad interest rates are also 
supportive signals. Shrinking 
monetary base is a negative.  
• Government bond risk: High. 
Weak medium-term equity 
momentum makes defensive 
assets more appealing. But 
expansionary PMI, rise in 
commodity prices and jump in 
US housing starts favour risk 
assets more.  
• Global inflation rose to 2.1%, 
slightly above long-term 
average. 12-month consensus 
and regression estimate point 
to around similar level over the 
next 6-12 months. Despite the 
higher inflation estimates, they 
are not drastic.  
• Global industrial production 
y/y fell to 2.1%, in line with the 
long-term average. Consensus 
and regression model estimate 
growth to rise to 2.4-3% over 
the next 6-12 months.   
Key model 
factors 
• Economic activity, macro risk 
and surprise indices, corporate 
earnings, forward price-to-
earnings ratio and technical 
factors. 
• Market factors include interest 
rates, commodity prices and 
equity market momentum. 
Macro factors include US 
housing, inflation, money in 
circulation, capacity utilisation 
and employment. 
• Tracks current and consensus 
estimates of inflation, industrial 
production, and leading 
economic indicators for the US, 
Europe, the UK, China, India 
and South Korea. 
How does it 
work? 
• A monthly scorecard of -5 to 5 
based on fundamental, 
valuation and market breadth 
factors to indicate relative 
preference for bonds and 
equities. A positive score 
favours equities and vice versa. 
• Using risk barometers to gauge 
the likelihood of large sell-offs 
in US equities and government 
bonds. Each barometer ranges 
from 0 to 100, where a value 
below 50 indicates high 
downside risk and vice versa. 
• A macro model of global 
economic cycle (recession, 
recovery, late cycle and 
stagflation) and implications for 
long-term asset class returns.

Short-term Technical analysis Investor positioning  
Current views Stay cautious (1-3 months) Watching out for USD/CNH and Europe Energy 
What factors 
is this view 
based on? 
• Bullish S&P500 after the index gapped up 2% on 8 
April. Model initially turned bearish on 27 February, 
heavily driven by a rapid rise in VIX, which has now 
normalised and fallen below 20%  
• Bullish MSC AC World. Like the S&P500 model, the 
model is heavily driven by option-market volatilities, 
which have normalised sharply.  
• Bullish EUR, GBP and AUD relative to USD. EUR 
has held up relatively well, AUD continued to be 
supported by momentum, while GBP is well-supported 
by higher correlations and wider spreads in rates.  
• Our market diversity indicator places USD/CNH 
on the watchlist for a potential reversal as 
investor positioning looks increasingly 
stretched.  
• Market diversity for US energy has normalised 
after pullback, but European energy sector is 
placed back onto watchlist as it rebounded 
strongly.  
Key model 
factors 
• Market factors: Momentum, volatility, interest rate 
differentials, relative returns, inflation swap rates, 
economic surprises, etc. 
• Price action: Overbought conditions occur 
when prices rise sharply; oversold conditions 
happen when prices fall rapidly in a short time.  
How does it 
work? 
• Scanning through 7,000+ factors, the framework 
uses machine learning to forecast market regimes or 
future trends based on identified market drivers. 
• A market indicator based on fractal analysis 
that provides timely indication of investor 
positioning based on price actions.

Source: Standard Chartered


===== Page 23 =====

Global Market Outlook 23

FOUNDATION   FOUNDATION 
Summary View 
Moderate 
Balanced 
Aggressive 
 Summary 
Conservative 
Cash ▼ 3 3 2  Cash 10 
Fixed Income ◆ 58 38 18  Fixed Income 90 
Equity ▲ 33 54 74    
Gold ▲ 6 6 6    
Asset class 
     Asset class Moderate 
USD Cash ▼ 3 3 2  Cash 10 
DM IG Government Bonds* ▼ 19 10 3  Floating Rate Notes 45 
DM IG Corporate Bonds* ◆ 15 10 5  DM IG Govt (Short duration) 10 
DM HY Corporate Bonds ◆ 3 2 1  DM IG Corp (Short duration) 15 
EM USD Government Bonds ▲ 7 6 4  DM HY (Short duration) 5 
EM Local Ccy Government Bonds ▲ 6 5 2  EM USD Govt (Short duration) 5 
Asia USD Bonds ◆ 8 5 3  EM LCY Govt 5 
North America Equities ▲ 23 37 50  Asia USD bonds 5 
Europe ex-UK Equities ▼ 3 6 8   100 
UK Equities ▼ 0 1 2    
Japan Equities ◆ 2 3 4    
Asia ex-Japan Equities ▲ 4 7 9    
Gold ▲ 6 6 6    
  100 100 100    
Source: Standard Chartered 
All figures in % 
1. Allocation figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding. *FX-hedged 
2. The Conservative TAA is based off the SAA and is not overlaid with any tactical views 
Legends:   ▲ Most preferred  | ▼ Least preferred  | ◆ Core holding

16 Foundation: Asset allocation summary


===== Page 24 =====

Global Market Outlook 24

FOUNDATION+ 
Summary View Moderate Balanced Aggressive 
Cash ▼ 2 2 2 
Fixed Income ◆ 49 30 13 
Equity ▲ 28 43 55 
Alternatives ◆ 20 25 30 
Asset class     
USD Cash ▼ 2 2 2 
DM IG Government Bonds* ▼ 16 8 2 
DM IG Corporate Bonds* ◆ 12 8 4 
DM HY Corporate Bonds ◆ 3 2 1 
EM USD Government Bonds ▲ 6 5 3 
EM Local Ccy Government Bonds ▲ 5 4 2 
Asia USD Bonds ◆ 7 4 2 
North America Equities ▲ 20 29 38 
Europe ex-UK Equities ▼ 3 5 6 
UK Equities ▼ 0 1 1 
Japan Equities ◆ 2 2 3 
Asia ex-Japan Equities ▲ 4 6 7 
Gold ▲ 5 5 5 
Hedge Fund Strategies ◆ 2 3 4 
Private Equity ◆ 2 5 8 
Private Real Assets ◆ 4 4 4 
Private Debt ◆ 5 6 7 
Digital Assets ◆ 2 2 2 
  100 100 100 
Source: Standard Chartered 
All figures in % 
1. Allocation figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding. *FX-hedged 
Legends:   ▲ Most preferred  | ▼ Least preferred  | ◆ Core holding

16 Foundation+: Asset allocation summary


===== Page 25 =====

Global Market Outlook 25

Source: MSCI, JPMorgan, Citigroup, Dow Jones, HFRX, FTSE, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
*All performance shown in USD terms, unless otherwise stated 
*YTD performance data from 31 December 2025 to 23 April 2026; 1-week performance from 16 April 2026 to 23 April 2026

18 Market performance summary*


===== Page 26 =====

Global Market Outlook 26

Currency 
USD 
(DXY) 
EUR/ 
USD 
GBP/ 
USD 
USD/ 
JPY 
AUD/ 
USD 
NZD/ 
USD 
USD/ 
CAD 
USD/ 
CNH 
USD/ 
CHF 
Oil  
(WTI, 
USD/ 
bbl) 
Gold  
(USD/ 
oz) 
Fed  
policy rate 
(upper 
bound) 
US  
Treasury  
10y yield 
(%) 
ECB 
policy 
rate

3m forecast 96 1.21 1.35 160 0.73 0.60 1.35 6.80 0.76 80-90 5,200 3.75%  
(Jun-26) 4.25-4.50% 2.00% 
(Jun-26)

12m forecast 96 1.20 1.30 152 0.75 0.61 1.34 6.75 0.74 70 5,500 3.50%  
(Dec-26) 3.75-4.00% 2.25%  
(Dec-26)

Source: Standard Chartered

MAY   1 May > US: PMI  JUN   1 Jun > US: PMI 
   8 May > US: Nonfarm Payrolls     2 Jun > EU: CPI 
   21 May > EU: PMI     5 Jun > US: Nonfarm Payrolls 
        10 Jun > US: CPI 
        11 Jun > EU: ECB policy meeting 
        14-16 Jun > France: 52nd G7 Leaders’ Summit 
        16 Jun > JP: BoJ policy meeting 
        18 Jun > US: Fed policy meeting 
        18 Jun > UK: BoE policy meeting 
        23 Jun > EU: PMI

Legends: ▬ Central bank policy   | ▬ Geopolitics   | ▬ Economic data  
X – Date not confirmed  |  ECB – European Central Bank  |  FOMC – Federal Open Market Committee (US)  |  BoJ – Bank of Japan  |   
BoE – Bank of England

19 Our key forecasts and calendar events


===== Page 27 =====

Global Market Outlook 27

Time is your most precious commodity – be sure to spend it wisely 
Time is undoubtedly valuable. The days may seem long, but the years are short. So, make the choice 
to spend your time wisely. Whether you’re setting out on your investment journey, navigating the 
intricacies of mid -life wealth planning or fortifying assets  for your golden years, invest time today to 
ensure your wealth strategy is aligned to what’s right for you – Today, Tomorrow and Forever. 
Setting aside the time now to review your plan will pay dividends in the future. Markets have moved. 
Your portfolio’s current asset allocation may no longer be optimally positioned to maximise the 
opportunities ahead. Ask yourself the following: Am I holding too much cash? Am I sufficiently allocating 
to growth assets for the long term? Is my portfolio diversified? Am I capturing the best opportunities? 
And most importantly, is my wealth working hard for me so I don’t have to? 
Use our SC Wealth Select framework and advisory specialists to help guide you through this process.

Purpose 
Today,  
Tomorrow,  
Forever 
Our approach to helping you grow and manage 
your wealth starts with you. We use a goals -
aware approach to understand your vision of 
Today, Tomorrow and Forever for yourself, your 
family and beyond, and then design portfolios to 
meet your various needs.  
Using our ‘Today, Tomorrow and Forever’ 
approach, we ensure your wealth needs for the 
near term (Today) are met, while ensuring your 
wealth needs for the decades ahead (Tomorrow 
and Forever) are also planned for.  
Your vision of ‘Today, Tomorrow and Forever’ is 
unique to you. Our specialists partner with you to 
build well -diversified, long -term Foundation 
portfolios, aligned to your Today, Tomorrow and 
Forever needs. Opportunistic ideas are added to 
capture short -term opportunities, a nd sufficient 
protection is included to address the objectives of 
you and your family. 
Today, Tomorrow and Forever 
Approach 
Planning for Today 
Requires ensuring liquidity and income 
flows take centre stage 
Securing Tomorrow 
Entails a well-diversified investment and 
protection portfolio with a focus on growth, 
ensuring inflation is accounted for and risks 
are mitigated 
Building for Forever 
Involves greater focus on long-term returns 
given the time horizon of your portfolio can 
be measured in decades, and might also 
include business interests, real estate, 
collectibles or charitable funds

SC Wealth Select  
 Managing your wealth through the decades – Today, Tomorrow and Forever


===== Page 28 =====

Global Market Outlook 28

Principles 
that stand the 
test of time 
Adhering to time-tested principles, to ensure your 
investment decisions remain robust and 
consistently applied, is paramount to your 
success Today, Tomorrow and Forever. We use 
five Wealth Principles to guide and guardrail your 
wealth decisions.

Discipline – ensure consistency and 
prudence over your emotions 
• Reacting to emotions , such as optimism and 
fear, can lead to poor investment decisions at 
the worst times 
• Have a plan and stick to it – this helps you to 
stay focused on the bigger picture

Diversification – simply put, don’t put 
all your eggs in one basket 
• Reduce risk by holding a variety of financial 
assets. Multi -asset diversification in your 
Foundation portfolio is important 
• As a guide, make sure your portfolio contains 
a variety of asset classes and investments 
that have low correlation with one another

Time in the Market – a more robust 
strategy than timing the market

• Predicting market selloffs is challenging, and 
timing your exit and re-entry is difficult 
• Missing out on the best performing days of a 
market can have a significantly detrimental 
impact on your portfolio 
• ‘Time in the market’ and buying the market 
with a longer -term view provide more 
consistent returns that can ride out bumps 
along the way

Risk and Return – make sure the risk 
is worth the return 
• To achieve higher investment returns, you will 
likely have to accept a greater level of risk in 
your portfolio 
• Therefore, it’s important to understand the 
risks and manage these on an ongoing basis

Protection – don’t let the unexpected 
catch you unprepared 
• Even though you may feel healthy, or 
financially stable now, protection offers the 
ability to overcome times of financial 
uncertainty and mitigate the long-term impact 
of unforeseen events on your wealth 
• A good protection plan not only safeguards 
your wealth today, but also considers the 
value of your future earnings over your 
lifetime, in today’s terms

Advisory 
Process 
Following a 
holistic 
approach to 
managing  
your wealth 
We follow a rigorous process to ensure your 
needs and objectives are well -understood, and 
your portfolio is well-aligned and manage s to  
deliver on these objectives. 
However, markets constantly evolve and your 
needs change. Hence, we encourage you to 
undertake regular portfolio reviews to ensure your 
portfolio remains aligned to your Today, 
Tomorrow and Forever objectives. This proactive 
approach includes strategic reb alancing based 
on insights from our Chief Investment Office.

Learn more 
Scan the QR code below to learn more about 
our approach to growing, managing and 
protecting your wealth.

The five-step process

Showcase 
Learn how  
our advisory framework  
can help you 
Discover 
Let us understand 
your needs, 
preferences and 
goals better 
Propose 
We’ll design a  
Foundation portfolio with 
Opportunistic overlays, 
which is tailored for you 
Implement 
Allow us to 
implement your 
portfolio seamlessly 
and efficiently 
Monitor & Review 
It’s important to  
regularly review  
and rebalance  
your portfolio 
Please be sure to reach out to your Relationship Manager today to arrange a portfolio review.


===== Page 29 =====

Market views on-the-go 
MVOG

SC Wealth Insights 
Find out more

YouTube

Facebook

LinkedIn

PvB LinkedIn

SC Money 
Insights 
4 podcasts shows on Spotify 
and Apple platforms

Spotify

Apple Podcasts

Speak to your Relationship Manager/Investment Advisor today for access to our security specific publications.

Access our views 24/7 on key platforms


===== Page 30 =====

Global Market Outlook 30

1 Explanatory notes


===== Page 31 =====

and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. While CFRA exercised due care in compiling this analysis, CFRA, ITS
THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS, AND ALL RELATED ENTITIES SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, to the full extent permitted by law, regard ing the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of
this information and assumes no liability with respect to the consequences of relying on this information for investment or o ther

purposes. No content provided by CFRA (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other
application or output therefrom) or any part thereof may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any fo rm
by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior  written permission of CFRA, and such content shall
not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. CFRA and any third -party providers, as well as their directors, officers,

shareholders, employees or agents do not guarantee the accuracy, completene ss, timeliness or availability of such content. In
no event shall CFRA, its affiliates, or their third-party suppliers be liable for any direct, indirect, special, or consequential damages,
costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including lost income or lost profit and opportunity costs) in connection with a subscriber’s,
subscriber’s customer’s, or other’s use of CFRA’s content.

Banking activities may be carried out internationally by different branches, subsidiaries and affiliates within the Standard
Chartered Group according to local regulatory requirements. Opinions may contain outright “buy”, “sell”, “hold” or other opinions.
The time horizon of this opinion is dependent on prevailing market conditions and there is no planned frequency for updates t o
the opinion. This opinion is not independent of Standard Chartered Group’s trading strategies or positions. Standard Chartere d

Group and/or its affiliates or its respective officers, directors, employee benefit programmes or employees, including persons
involved in the preparation or issuance of this document may at any time, to the extent permitted by applicable law and/or
regulation, be long or short any securities or financial instruments referred to in this document or have material interest in any
such securities or related investments. Therefore, it is possible, and you should assume, that Standard Chartered Group has a

this company/issuer. All covering strategist are licensed to provide investment recommendations under Monetary Authority of
Singapore or Hong Kong Monetary Authority. This document must not be forwarded or otherwise made available to any other
person without the express written consent of Standard Chartered Group.
Sustainable Investments
Any ESG data used or referred to has been provided by Morningstar, Sustainalytics, MSCI or Bloomberg. Refer to 1) Morningstar

website under Sustainable Investing, 2) Sustainalytics website under ESG Risk Ratings, 3) MCSI website under ESG Business
Involvement Screening Research and 4) Bloomberg green, social & sustainability bonds guide for more information. The ESG
data is as at the date of publication based on data provided, is for informational purpose only and is not warranted to be complete,
timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose, and it may be subject to change. Sustainable Investments (SI): This refers

to funds that have been classified as ‘ ESG Intentional Investments - Overall’ by Morningstar. SI funds have explicitly stated in
their prospectus and regulatory filings that they either incorporate ESG factors into the investment process or have a themat ic
focus on the environment, gender diversity, low carbon, renewable energy, water or community development. For equity, it refers
to shar es/stocks issued by companies with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating of Low/Negligible. For bonds, it refers to debt

instruments issued by issuers with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating of Low/Negligible, and/or those being certified green, social,
sustainable b onds by Bloomberg. For structured products, it refers to products that are issued by any issuer who has a
Sustainable Finance framework that aligns with Standard Chartered’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework, with
underlying assets that are part of t he Sustainable Investment universe or separately approved by Standard Chartered’s

Bahrain: This document is being distributed in Bahrain by Standard Chartered Bank, Bahrain Branch, having its address at P.O.
29, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain, is a branch of Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed by the Central Bank of Bahrain as a
conventional ret ail bank.  Botswana: This document is being distributed in Botswana by, and is attributable to, Standard
Chartered Bank Botswana Limited which is a financial institution licensed under the Section 6 of the Banking Act CAP 46.04 and

is listed in the  Botswana Stock Exchange. Brunei Darussalam: This document is being distributed in Brunei Darussalam by,
and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Brunei Branch) | Registration Number RFC/61 and Standard Chartered


===== Page 32 =====

Global Market Outlook 32
Securities (B) Sdn Bhd  | Registration Number RC20001003. Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with limited
liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18. Standard Chartered Securities (B) Sdn Bhd is a limited liability company
registered with the Registry of Companies with Registration Number RC20001003 and licensed by Brunei Darussalam Central
Bank as a Capital Markets Service License Holder with License Number BDCB/R/CMU/S3 -CL and it is authorised to conduct

Administration (NFRA), State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), and People’s  Bank of China (PBOC). Hong Kong:
In Hong Kong, this document, except for any portion advising on or facilitating any decision on futures contracts trading, is
distributed by Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (“SCBHK”), a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC. SCBHK has
its registered address at 32/F, Standard Chartered Bank Building, 4 -4A Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong and is regulated

by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and registered with the Securities and Futures Comm ission (“SFC”) to carry on Type 1
(dealing in securities), Type 4 (advising on securities), Type 6 (advising on corporate finance) and Type 9 (asset management )
regulated activity under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) (“SFO”) (CE No. AJI614 ). The contents of this
document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong and you are advised to exercise caution in relation

to any offer set out herein. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of this document, you should obt ain independent
professional advice. Any product named herein may not be offered or sold in Hong Kong by means of any document at any time
other than to “professional investors” as defined in the SFO and any rules made under that ordinance. In addition, this document
may not be issued or possessed for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, and any interests may not be

disposed of, to any person unless such person is outside Hong Kong or is a “professional investor” as defined in the SFO a nd
any rules made under that ordinance, or as otherwise may be permitted by that ordinance. In Hong Kong, Standard Chartered
Private Bank is the private banking division of SCBHK,  a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC . Ghana: Standard Chartered
Bank Ghana Limited accepts no liability and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising directly or indirectly (including

adviser on the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment to invest in an
investment. To unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to feedback . ghana  @ sc . com. Please do not
reply to this email. Call our Priority Banking on 0302610750 for any questions or service queries. You are advised not to sen d
any confidential and/or important information to Standard Chartered via e-mail, as Standard Chartered makes no representations

or warranties as to the security or accuracy of any information transmitted via e-mail. Standard Chartered shall not be responsible
for any loss or damage suffered by you arising from your decision to use e -mail to communicate with the Bank. India: This
document is being distributed in India by Standard Chartered in its capacity as a distributor of mutual funds and referrer of  any
other third party financial products. Standard Chartered does not offer any ‘Investment Advice’ as defined in the Securi ties and

Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 or otherwise. Services/products related securities business
offered by Standard Charted are not intended for any person, who is a resident of any jurisdiction, the laws of which  imposes
prohibition on soliciting the securities business in that jurisdiction without going through the registration requirements an d/or
prohibit the use of any information contained in this document. Indonesia: This document is being distributed in Indonesia by

Standard Chartered Bank, Indonesia branch, which is a financial institution licensed and supervised by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan
(Financial Service Authority) and Bank Indonesia. Jersey: In Jersey, Standard Chartered Private Bank is the Registered
Business Name of the Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank. The Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank is regulated
by the Jersey Financial Services Commission. Copies of the latest audited accounts of Standard Chartered Bank are available

from its principal place of business in Jersey: PO Box 80, 15 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PT. Standard Chartered Bank
is incorporated in England with limited liability by Royal Charter in 1853 Reference Number ZC 18. The Principal Office of th e
Company is sit uated in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the
Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. The

Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank is also an authorised financial services provider under license number 44946 issued
by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority of the Republic of South Africa. Jersey is not part of the United Kingdom and all
business transacted with Standard Cha rtered Bank, Jersey Branch and other SC Group Entity outside of the United Kingdom,
are not subject to some or any of the investor protection and compensation schemes available under United Kingdom law.

Kenya: This document is being distributed in Kenya by and is attributable to Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited. Investment
Products and Services are distributed by Standard Chartered Investment Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited that is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority in Kenya, as a Fund Manager. Standard
Chartered Bank Kenya Limited is regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya. Malaysia: This document is being distributed in

Malaysia by Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad (“SCBMB”). Recipients in Malaysia should contact SCBMB in relation
to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. This document has not been revi ewed by the Securities
Commission Malaysia. The product lodgement, registration, submission or approval by the Se curities Commission of Malaysia


===== Page 33 =====

Global Market Outlook 33
does not amount to nor indicate recommendation or endorsement of the product, service or promotional activity. Investment
products are not deposits and are not obligations of, not guaranteed by, and not protected by SCBMB or any of the affiliates or
subsidiaries, or by Perbadanan Insurans Deposit Malaysia, any government or insurance agency. Investment products are
subject to investment risks, including the possible loss of the principal amount invested. SCBMB expressly disclaim any liabi lity

and responsibility for any loss arising directly or indirectly (including special, incidental or consequential loss or damage) arising
from the financial losses of the Investment Products due to market condition. Nigeria: This document is being distributed in
Nigeria by Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited (SCB Nigeria), a bank duly licensed and regulated by the Central Bank of
Nigeria. SCB Nigeria accepts no liability for any loss or damage arising directly or indirect ly (including special, incidental or

consequential loss or damage) from your use of these documents. You should seek advice from a financial adviser on the
suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment to invest in an investment. To
unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to clientcare . ng @ sc . com requesting to be removed from our
mailing list. Please do not reply to this email. Call our Priority Banking on 02 012772514 for any questions or service queri es.

of any information transmitted via e -mail.  Pakistan: This document is being distributed in Paki stan by, and attributable to
Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited having its registered office at PO Box 5556, I.I Chundrigar Road Karachi, which is
a banking company registered with State Bank of Pakistan under Banking Companies Ordinance 1962 and i s also having
licensed issued by Securities & Exchange Commission of Pakistan for Security Advisors. Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan)

Limited acts as a distributor of mutual funds and referrer of other third -party financial products. Singapore: This document is
being distributed in Singapore by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited (Registration No.
201224747C/ GST Group Registration No. MR-8500053-0, “SCBSL”). Recipients in Singapore should contact SCBSL in relation
to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. SCBSL is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Standard

Chartered Bank and is licensed to conduct banking business in Singapore under the Singapore Banking Act, 1970. Standard
Chartered Private Bank is the private banking division of SCBSL. IN RELATION TO ANY SECURITY OR SECURITIES-BASED
DERIVATIVES CONTRACT REFERRED TO IN THIS DOCUMENT, THIS DOCUMENT, TOGETHER WITH THE ISSUER
DOCUMENTATION, SHALL BE DEEMED AN INFORMATION MEMORANDUM (AS DEFINED IN  SECTION 275 OF THE
SECURITIES AND FUTURES ACT, 2001 (“SFA”)). THIS DOCUMENT IS INTENDED FOR DISTRIBUTION TO ACCREDITED

INVESTORS, AS DEFINED IN SECTION 4A(1)(a) OF THE SFA, OR ON THE BASIS THAT THE SECURITY OR SECURITIES-
BASED DERIVATIVES CONTRACT MAY ONL Y BE ACQUIRED AT A CONSIDERATION OF NOT LESS THAN S$200,000
(OR ITS EQUIVALENT IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY) FOR EACH TRANSACTION. Further, in relation to any security or
securities-based derivatives contract, neither this document nor the Issuer Documentation has been registered as a prospectus
with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the SFA. Accordingly, this document and any other document or material in

connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or purchase, of the product may not  be circulated or distributed,
nor may the product be offered or sold, or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directl y or
indirectly, to persons other than a relevant person pursuant to section 275(1) of the SFA, or a ny person pursuant to section
275(1A) of the SFA, and in accordance with the conditions specified in section 275 of the SFA, or pursuant to, and in accordance

with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. In relation to any collective investment schemes referred to in
this document, this document is for general information purposes only and is not an offering document or prospectus (as defined
in the SFA). This document is not, nor is it intended to be (i) an offer or solicitation of an  offer to buy or sell any capital markets
product; or (ii) an advertisement of an offer or intended offer of any capital markets product. Deposit Insurance Scheme:

Singapore dollar deposits of non -bank depositors are insured by the Singapore Deposit Insura nce Corporation, for up to
S$100,000 in aggregate per depositor per Scheme member by law. Foreign currency deposits, dual currency investments,
structured deposits and other investment products are not insured. This advertisement has not been reviewed by t he Monetary
Authority of Singapore. Taiwan: SC Group Entity  or Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) Limited (“SCB (Taiwan)”) may be

involved in the financial instruments contained herein or other related financial instruments. The author of this document ma y
have discussed the information contained herein with other employees or agents of SC or SCB (Taiwan). The author and the
above-mentioned employees of SC or SCB (Taiwan) may have taken related actions in respect of the information involved
(including communication with customers of SC or SCB (Taiwan) as to the information contained herein). The opinions contained

in this document may change, or differ from the opinions of employees of SC or SCB (Taiwan). SC and SCB (Taiwan) will not
provide any notice of any changes to or differences between the above -mentioned opinions. This document may cover
companies with which SC or SCB (Taiwan) seeks to do business at times and issuers of financial instruments. Therefore,
investors should understand that the information contained herein may serve as specific purposes as a result of conflict of

interests of SC or SCB (Taiwan). SC, SCB (Taiwan), the employees (including those who have discussions with the author) or
customers of SC or SCB (Taiwan) may have an interest in th e products, related financial instruments or related derivative
financial products contained herein; invest in those products at various prices and on different market conditions; have different


===== Page 34 =====

or conflicting interests in those products. The potential impacts include market makers’ related activities, such as dealing,
investment, acting as agents, or performing financial or consulting services in relation to any of the products referred to i n this
document. UAE: DIFC - Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853
Reference Number ZC18.The Principal Office of the Company is situated in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V

Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. Standard Chartered Bank, Dubai International Financial Centre having its offices
at Dubai International Financial Centre, Building 1, Gate Precinct, P.O. Box 999, Dubai, UAE is a branch of Standard Chartered
Bank and is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). This document is intended for use only by Professional
Clients and is not directed at Retail Clients as defined by the DFSA Rulebook. In the DIFC we are authorised to provide financial

services only to clients who qualify as Professional Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail Clients. As a Professional
Client you will not be given the higher retail client protection and compensation rights and if you use your right to be classified
as a Retail Client we will be unable to provide financial services and products to you as we do not hold the required license  to
undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shariah Supervisory Committee.

Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank website in
the Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by the Central Bank of
the U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide
financial analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodities Authority

Decision No. 48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis . Uganda:  Our Investment products and
services are distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an
investment adviser. United Kingdom: In the UK, Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. This communication has been approved

by Standard Chartered Bank for the purposes of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Private Bank) is
also an authorised financial services provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial Advisory and
Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal requirements designed to

promote the independence of investment research, and that it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the
dissemination of investment research. Vietnam: This document is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard
Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulated by State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should
contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited fo r any queries regarding any con tent of this document. Zambia: This

document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company incorporated in Zambia and registered as a
commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws
of Zambia.


===== Page 35 =====

WS Global CIO Office 
24 April 2026

May 2026 
Global Market Outlook 
An uneasy 
truce 
Further de-escalation of the Middle 
East conflict and a softening of oil 
prices remain our base case. However, 
bouts of market volatility are likely in the 
absence of a firm US-Iran deal. We 
remain Overweight equities and gold.

We remain Overweight US and Asia 
ex-Japan equities. Strong earnings are 
expected to support further gains in US 
equities, led by the technology sector. 
Asian equities should benefit from 
renewed USD weakness and robust 
earnings.

Oil price scenarios are key. Logistical 
challenges are expected to result in WTI 
crude oil settling in the USD 80-90/bbl 
range over the next 1-3 months even if 
the Strait of Hormuz fully reopens. 
Renewed conflict escalation and a 
resulting rise in oil prices remain key risks 
for now.



Why USD 100/bbl oil isn’t 
an economy killer 
Managing allocations in 
volatile markets 
Are quantitative models 
still bullish equities?


===== Page 36 =====

01 
 Strategy 
 Investment strategy: An uneasy truce 03 
 Foundation asset allocation models 05 
 Foundation: Our tactical asset allocation 06 
 Perspectives on key client questions 07

02 
 Macro overview – at a glance 
 Our macroeconomic outlook and key questions 10

03 
 Asset classes 
 Fixed Income 12 
 Equity 14 
 Equity opportunistic views 15 
 Gold and crude oil 16 
 FX 17

04 
 Additional perspectives 
 Quant perspective: Bullish equities 19

05 
 Performance review 
 Foundation: Asset allocation summary 21 
 Foundation+: Asset allocation summary 22 
 Market performance summary 23 
 Our key forecasts and calendar events 24 
 SC Wealth Select 25 
 Explanatory notes 28

Contents


===== Page 37 =====

Global Market Outlook 3

12m Foundation Overweights: 
• Global equities, gold 
• US, Asia ex-Japan equities 
• Emerging Market (EM) USD and 
local currency (LCY) 
Opportunistic Ideas – Equities: 
• Global: Semiconductors, 
buybacks, gold miners^ 
• US: Aerospace and defence, 
utilities 
• China: Hang Seng Technology 
Index 
Top Global Sectors: 
• US: Technology, communication 
services^, utilities, healthcare 
• Europe ex-UK: Financials 
Opportunistic Ideas – Bonds: 
• US: Treasury Inflation-protected 
Securities (TIPS), short-duration 
high-yield (HY) bonds, AAA 
CLOs, utility sector hybrids 
• EU: Bank AT1s FX-hedged 
• Others: AUD corporate bonds 
^New 
An uneasy truce  
• Further de-escalation of the Middle East conflict and a softening of oil prices 
remain our base case . However, bouts of market volatility are likely in the 
absence of a firm US-Iran deal. We remain Overweight equities and gold.  
• We remain Overweight US and Asia ex-Japan (AxJ) equities. Strong earnings 
are expected to support further gains in US equities, led by the technology sector. 
Asian equities should benefit from renewed USD weakness and robust earnings. 
• Oil price scenarios are key. Logistical realities are expected to result in WTI crude 
oil settling around USD 80-90/bbl over the next 1 -3 months even if the Strait of 
Hormuz fully reopens. Renewed conflict escalation and a resulting rise in oil prices 
remain key risks for now. 
We stay positive, but it’s never a straight line 
The Middle East stand-off continues to dominate headlines and investor thinking, 
resulting in a sharp focus on when shipping transit through the Strait of Hormuz will 
restart, its impact on oil prices and related market movements. In our base case, we 
expect the ongoing move towards conflict de-escalation to continue in the coming 
weeks, albeit with bouts of headline volatility. Having said that, the tail risk of an 
unexpected resumption of hostilities remains present for now. 
Financial markets thus far agree with us. Despite the Middle East conflict, US equities 
achieved a new record high after only a relatively modest pullback. This coincided with 
the return of oil prices to around USD 100/bbl and a related easing in US bond yields 
and the USD. We would avoid extrapolating straight -line gains, but overall , if de -
escalation continues, we expect equities and gold to outperform bonds and cash. 
The threat of inflation is likely to be an area of focus over the next couple of months. 
However, we expect the global economy to avoid a sustained rise in inflation. In the 
US, this should allow the Fed to achieve one rate cut before year -end 2026, while in 
Europe, the ECB likely needs to raise rates only once. That said, markets may be 
excessively overpricing the extent of central bank hawkishness, creating rate 
opportunities, particularly in short-to-intermediate US bond maturities.

1 Investment strategy and key themes

Steve Brice 
Global Chief Investment Officer 
Manpreet Gill 
Chief Investment Officer, AMEE 
Raymond Cheng 
Chief Investment Officer, North Asia


===== Page 38 =====

Global Market Outlook 4

Fig. 1 Softening energy prices have helped US yields 
and the USD to fall, despite headline risks  
 Fig. 2 Funding announcements and pricing power 
helped US tech sector bottom; we expect further gains 
Oil, US 5Y government bond yield and the US Dollar Index  MSCI US technology sector Index

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Tech to lead US equities 
We remain Overweight US equities, which have outperformed 
other major regions throughout the period of hostilities, 
including during the current rebound . This is  due to the US 
economy’s lower dependence on Middle East energy versus 
Asia and Europe and a relatively stronger earnings outlook. 
A more significant inflation shock would have been a stronger 
headwind for US equity markets. However, we believe easing 
energy prices and well -behaved, long-term market -based 
inflation expectations, together with a soft job market, will 
allow the Fed to stay on hold and resume rate cuts before 
year-end. This means equit y markets  are likely to continue 
their focus on earnings growth. Here, data remains very 
strong, with Q1 2026 earnings reinforcing market expectations 
for full-year 2026 earnings growth of 19%.  
We expect the technology sector to keep its lead, especially 
after the recent valuation de -rating, light investor positioning 
and a recent positive set of catalysts via funding commitments 
and improved pricing power. We also raise the US 
communication services sector to Overweight on an improving 
digital advertising environment and expanding opportunities 
to monetise artificial intelligence (AI) investments. 
We also maintain our Overweight on AxJ equities. The region 
undoubtedly remains sensitive to energy prices and any 
renewed rise in tensions from both the economic and 
corporate profitability perspectives. However, in a world of flat-
to-lower oil prices from here, we expect two catalysts to pick 
up the slack. First , the strong technology sector earnings, 
which should spill over positive ly, particularly for North Asian 
equities. Second , the resumption of a weak US D, which is 
consistent with further outperformance of Asian equities. 
Within Asia, we maintain our ‘barbell’ regional preference. Our 
Overweight to China and Taiwan equities should benefit from 
strong technology sector earnings and a renewed focus on the 
AI theme. At the other end, our Overweight on Indian equities 
has little direct exposure to AI, but this should benefit from 
very light investor positioning, well-supported earnings growth 
and gradually lower oil prices/weaker USD. 
Capturing yield and taking profit in bonds 
We expect long -term inflation expectations to remain stable . 
Thus, we see any rebound in bond yields as temporary and  
as opportunities to lock in the yield at the short-to-intermediate 
parts of yield curves as they re -steepen, with central banks 
delivering less tightening than currently priced by markets. 
Our Overweight to Emerging Market ( EM) bonds (USD and  
LCY) remains unchanged. Spreads widen ed in response to 
the Middle East conflict but have since retraced most of the 
move. Looking ahead, EM bonds should benefit from renewed 
appetite for risky asset classes and a softer USD as the 
conflict de-escalates. However, they remain vulnerable to a 
downside risk scenario involving a renewed rise in oil prices.  
We also trim our view on D eveloped Market (DM) HY bonds 
to Neutral following a rise in  valuations. Credit quality and 
yields remain attractive, but we see better risk -reward now in 
our short-duration US HY bonds opportunistic idea. 
Oil prices could hit a near-term floor 
One key assumption behind many of our views is that oil 
prices continue to drift gradually lower in our base case.  
However, there are two reasons why a quick return to pre -
conflict oil prices is unlikely. First , the time needed to fully 
resume Middle East oil and gas output. Shipping will take time 
to resume even if the Strait of Hormuz is reopened quickly , 
and damaged facilities will take time to repair. Second , 
inventories will need to be rebuilt, adding a new source of 
demand in the coming months and years. Together, this is 
why we revise higher our 3-month WTI oil price forecast to 
USD 80-90/bbl and our 12-month forecast to USD 70/bbl. 
A downside scenario of renewed hostilities, with a resulting 
surge in energy prices, remains a risk. However, compared 
with the 1970s, the global economy is considerably more 
energy-efficient and oil prices in the current episode have 
remained below prior highs once adjusted for inflation. Thus, 
we expect risks to be manageable unless prices settle above 
USD 150/bbl.
98.5
3.9
3.0
3.2
3.4
3.6
3.8
4.0
4.2
4.4
50
60
70
80
90
100
110
120
Apr-25 Aug-25 Dec-25 Apr-26
%
USD
Brent oil price US 5y Treasury yield (RHS)
98.4
95
97
99
101
103
105
DXY index (L1)
Mythos AI model preview;
US-Iran ceasefire 
announcement
OpenAI funding 
announcement
1,292
750
950
1,150
1,350
1,550
Apr-25 Aug-25 Dec-25 Apr-26
Index
MSCI US Technology index Events


===== Page 39 =====

Global Market Outlook 5

The Foundation and Foundation+ models are allocations that you can use as the starting point for building a diversified 
investment portfolio. The Foundation model showcases a set of allocations focusing on traditional asset classes that are 
accessible to m ost investors, while the Foundation+ model includes allocations to private assets that may be accessible to 
investors in some jurisdictions, but not others. 
Fig. 3 Foundation asset allocation for a balanced risk profile

Fig. 4 Foundation+ asset allocation for a balanced risk profile

Fig. 5 Multi-asset income allocation for a moderate risk profile

Source: Standard Chartered

Equity 54%
North America 37%
Europe ex-UK 6%
UK 1%
Japan 3%
Asia ex-Japan 7%
Bond 38%
DM IG Government 10%
DM IG Corporate 10%
DM HY Corporate 2%
EM USD Government 6%
EM Local Ccy Government 5%
Asia USD 5%
Balanced
Cash 3%
USD Cash 3%
Gold 6%
Gold 6%
Equity 43%
North America 29%
Europe ex-UK 5%
UK 1%
Japan 2%
Asia ex-Japan 6%
Bond 30%
DM IG Government 8%
DM IG Corporate 8%
DM HY Corporate 2%
EM USD Government 5%
EM Local Ccy Government 4%
Asia USD 4%
Balanced
Cash 2%
USD Cash 2%
Alternatives 25%
Gold                                                5%
Hedge Fund Strategies                   3%
Private Equity 5%
Private Real Assets 4%
Private Debt 6%
Digital Assets                                  2%
Bonds 53%
DM IG Government 6%
DM IG Corporate 5%
US Mortgage-backed 
Securities 4%
DM HY Corporate 20%
EM HC Government 6%
EM LC Government 6%
Asia USD 6%
Hybrids 8%
Covered calls 5%
Sub financials 3%
Multi-asset 
Income
Equity 37%
Global High Dividend 24%
Global Equity 8%
Global Infrastructure 3%
Global REITs                                        2%
Cash 1%
USD Cash 1%

2 Foundation asset allocation models


===== Page 40 =====

Global Market Outlook 6

View Detail 
USD cash ▼ + Short-term safety || - Falling yields, likely underperform vs major asset classes 
Bonds ◆  
DM IG Govt  ▼ + High credit quality, attractive yields || - High sensitivity to inflation, monetary policy 
DM IG Corporate  ◆ + High credit quality, improving valuations || - Expected supply, especially in the US 
DM HY Corporate  ◆ + Attractive yield, low-rate sensitivity || - Sensitive to growth and credit quality risks 
EM USD Govt  ▲ + Attractive yield, sensitive to US rates || - EM credit quality, US trade policy risks 
EM Local Ccy Govt  ▲ + Attractive yield, benefit from USD weakness || - US trade policy risks, inflation risks 
Asia USD  ◆ + Moderate yield, low volatility || - Sensitive to China growth   
Equities ▲  
North America  ▲ + Earnings growth, AI uptrend || - US policy uncertainty 
Europe ex-UK  ▼ + Undemanding valuations, German fiscal spending || - US trade policy risks 
UK  ▼ + Attractive valuations, dividend yield || - Stagflation risks, US trade policy risks 
Japan  ◆ + Reasonable valuations, rising dividends/share buybacks || - JPY strength, US trade policy 
Asia ex-Japan  ▲ + Earnings; India, China policy support || - China growth concerns, US trade policy 
Gold ▲ + Portfolio hedge, central bank demand, falling real yields || - Resilient USD 
Source: Standard Chartered Global Investment Committee; Green = Upgrade; Red = Downgrade 
Legends:   ▲ Overweight   | ▼ Underweight   | ◆ Core

Fig. 6 Performance of our Foundation Allocations*

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered; *12-month performance data from 22 April 2025 to 22 April 2026, 3-month performance from 22 
January 2026 to 22 April 2026, 1-month performance from 20 March 2026 to 22 April 2026

2 Foundation: Our tactical asset allocation


===== Page 41 =====

Global Market Outlook 7

Managing allocations in volatile markets 
The current global macro environment, marked by uncertainty around Middle East 
tensions, oil price swings and inflationary pressures, presents a formidable 
challenge for investors. Allocation management in such tricky times can benefit from 
these eight historical lessons gathered from past events , including the 2008 global 
financial crisis and the 2020 pandemic: 
Lesson 1: Investment timeframe matters 
Bear markets tend to be sharp, but short-lived. A historical analysis of global equity 
returns from 1988 to 202 6 shows that the probability of enduring negative returns 
drops substantially as the investment horizon extends. While the probability of a 
negative return is 32% over a six-month period, it falls to just 7% over a 10 -year 
period. Thus, extending the time horizon significantly increases the probability of 
earning positive returns. 
Fig. 7 Probability of return drawdown drops significantly as we extend 
investment timeframe 
Distribution of 1-month, 6-month, 12-month, 3-year, 5-year and 10-year returns of 
MSCI All Country World Index (data from 1988 to 2026)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Lesson 2: Staying invested through volatility 
Prospect theory suggests the pain of financial loss is twice as intensely felt as the joy of financial gain, often driving investors to 
exit the market when things are ugly. However, timing the market is, more often than not, a losing game. 
Fig. 8 Despite intra-year volatility, the MSCI ACWI Index had positive year-end total returns 28 out of the last 38 
years since 1988 
MSCI ACWI largest declines vs. full year returns (1988-2025)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

61% 68% 72% 80% 81%
93%
39% 32% 28%
20% 19%
7%
0%
20%
40%
60%
80%
100%
1-month 6-month 1-year 3-year 5-year 10-year
Positive returns Negative returns
-60%
-40%
-20%
0%
20%
40%
1988
1989
1990
1991
1992
1993
1994
1995
1996
1997
1998
1999
2000
2001
2002
2003
2004
2005
2006
2007
2008
2009
2010
2011
2012
2013
2014
2015
2016
2017
2018
2019
2020
2021
2022
2023
2024
2025
Maximum drawdown during year Full-year return

2 Perspectives on key client questions

Manpreet Gill 
Chief Investment Officer, AMEE


===== Page 42 =====

Global Market Outlook 8

In the chart above, the light blue bars represent the largest 
declines from a peak to a trough that occurred within each 
year, while the dark blue bars represent the corresponding 
return for the full calendar year. Despite significant intra -year 
volatility, the global equity index had positive year -end total 
returns in 28 out of the last 38 years since 1988. Thus, history 
shows that staying invested and riding through bear markets 
proves beneficial. 
Lesson 3: Power of diversification  
Portfolio diversification is paramount during tough times, as it 
provides investors with more staying power – better risk 
tolerance and downside protection – to absorb emotions 
during distressed periods. Diversified allocations have 
historically performed well after periods of major market 
downturns. 
Lesson 4: The cost of de-risking 
If you think your portfolio is not aligned with your long -term

objectives, or if you have a more bearish future view, you 
might want to (i) reduce exposure to risky assets or (ii) 
incrementally add adequate protection.  
That said, de -risking when market uncertainty is elevated is 
not free of risks. Rotating to a safe-haven asset , such as  
bonds, leaves you more vulnerable to a sharp rise in yields 
(bond prices fall when yields rise, a situation that played out 
in 2022). There are also  embedded opportunity costs of 
missing out on gains from potential rebounds in risk assets, 
such as equities and HY bonds. 
Lesson 5: Resilience for the long and winding road 
As we progress through a volatile economic cycle 
characterised by high interest rates and inflationary pressure, 
we believe a well -diversified, balanced allocation remains a 
prudent approach . Historically, such portfolios have  shown 
superior risk -adjusted returns ( lower risk per unit of return) 
once you look through the relatively short period of volatility. 
Fig. 9 A well-diversified allocation shows superior long-term performance 
Annualised returns and volatilities of various assets and a global balanced allocation since 2016 
 Global equity Global bond Alternatives Gold 
Global balanced 
allocation* 
Average return (ann.) 9.4% 2.0% 3.2% 10.5% 5.9% 
Average volatility (ann.) 14.4% 4.0% 4.1% 14.2% 7.5% 
Risk-adjusted return 0.65 0.51 0.79 0.74 0.78

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered. *Global balanced allocation is proxied by 4% Cash, 30% Global bonds, 42% Global Equity, 4% Gold, 
20% Alternatives.

Lesson 6: Long-volatility strategies as a hedge 
Instead of fearing volatility, long -volatility strategies seek to 
capitalise on it by providing insurance -like payoffs. However, 
appropriately sizing such strategies is key as one would 
expect these to deliver negative returns once risks recede. 
Common tec hniques to implement long -volatility strategies 
include: 
• Options: Call and put options give investors the right to 
buy or sell assets at predetermined prices 
• Strangle and straddle: These strategies allow investors 
to profit from extreme market volatility in either direction 
without needing a clear directional view 
• Volatility Index (VIX) -based instruments: The VIX fear 
gauge measures expected volatility. VIX futures and 
options, or VIX -based exchange -traded funds or notes, 
provide ways to profit from or hedge against extreme 
market swings. 
Lesson 7: Volatility targeting to stabilise portfolio risk 
Volatility targeting is an emerging quant strategy used to keep 
portfolio risk at steady levels. Methods include 
• Portfolio volatility targeting : Adjusts exposure to high -
risk assets, such as derivatives, based on market volatility 
• Dynamic volatility scaling: Adjusts allocations based on 
individual asset volatility and long-term correlations 
• Volatility switching : Uses quant models to identify 
historical patterns and realign portfolios to benefit from 
major market dislocations 
• Momentum filter : Helps limit further downside by 
avoiding investments in assets that are dipping 
Lesson 8: Keep emotions and biases under check 
Fear and panic often lead to massive sell -offs during market 
downturns. Similarly, euphoria and greed lead to heated 
valuations when the market is on an uptrend. Thus, decisions 
fuelled by anxiety often lead to poor market timing or investors 
abandoning th eir long -term financial plans. To counter this, 
investors should develop self -awareness of inherent biases, 
use well -structured investment plans, apply rule -based 
strategies – such as dollar -cost averaging and hedging – or 
consult an expert.


===== Page 43 =====

Global Market Outlook 9

Why USD 100 oil isn’t the economy-killer 
it used to be? 
Just how much should investors worry about high oil prices? 
Amid the ongoing Middle East conflict, it is not surprising 
investors are focused on energy prices, given these remain 
the main channel to global financial markets. However, many 
have been surprised by the uneven impact across different 
markets. For example, the pullback in US equities has been 
relatively muted , and the market subsequently went on to 
make a new record high.  
While we should not be complacent about downside risks, it 
is equally important to balance the downside risk with what we 
see as attractive opportunities , especially if worst -case 
scenarios fail to play out. 
Why this isn’t a 1970s sequel? 
The 1970s oil crises involved two major supply shocks – the 
1973 Arab oil embargo and the 1979 Iranian Revolution – 
which nearly quadrupled oil prices, triggered global stagflation 
(a debilitating combination of sustained high inflation and 
stagnant econom ic growth) and created severe fuel 
shortages.  
Given this historical precedent, one would have thought that 
the recent Brent crude oil price rise of about 75% since mid-
February would have resulted in markets focusing entirely on 
an upcoming inflation shock, recession risk and a 
stagflationary world ahead. However, over the same period, 
US equities fell by 7.5% and the 10-year US government bond 
yield held below 4.5% – not exactly the growth  or inflation 
shock one would have expected, given the staggering rise in 
oil prices. 
The clue sits in energy intensity – the amount of oil or gas 
needed per unit of GDP growth. Since the 1970s, energy 
intensity has fallen dramatically. 
The World Bank, for instance, estimates that the amount of oil 
required to generate one unit of global GDP growth fell from 
0.12 tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) in 1970 to 0.05 toe in 2022 
– about a 58% reduction. Researchers at the Harvard 
Kennedy School f ound that the amount of oil required to 
generate USD 1,000 of global GDP has fallen by an average 
of 1.5 litres each year since 1984. S&P Global estimates that 
oil prices would have to rise to the USD 150-200/bbl range to 
have a macroeconomic impact simila r to historical energy 
shocks over the past 60 years. 
The bottom line? Oil prices hovering around USD 100/bbl are 
high, but not as high as they were for the global economy 
during historical energy price shocks. 
Trust market resilience, but hedge the risks 
The purpose of this perspective is not to foster complacency. 
Rather, it is to remind us that both risks and opportunities lie 
in front of us.  
We certainly believe it is worthwhile to hedge against risks. 
Today’s USD 100/bbl oil prices are expected to result in at 
least a moderate rise in inflation. However, a significant 
energy shock would involve either a rise towards levels that 
had an impact previously, such as USD 150-200/bbl, or would 
result from prices staying above USD 100/bbl for a prolonged 
period, pushing the average price higher for the year. 
One preferred short-term hedge is inflation-protected 
bonds, which directly hedge yields against the US inflation 
index. Gold would also be an attractive hedge against a more 
stagflationary environment.  
Hunting for value amid uncertainty 
Downside risks notwithstanding, our baseline view continues 
to be that the current energy supply disruption is likely to be 
relatively short-lived. In this scenario, it would make sense first 
and foremost to stay invested in well -diversified portfolios, 
which in themselves offer an attractive entry point for long -
term investors. More specifically, we would look for 
opportunities in asset classes that may post the strongest 
rebound if the high energy price threat recedes.  
At the top of our shopping list are Asian equities. This is based 
on their relatively higher growth and balance -of-payment 
sensitivity to both oil prices and the USD. An easing of energy 
supply disruptions and lower oil prices is a scenario in which 
Asian equities may post the strongest recovery as downside 
risks are priced out. 
Ultimately, the goal isn’t just to survive the oil price spike, but 
to thrive beyond it. The current oil shock may very well prove 
to be a pivotal bargain-hunting opportunity this year.


===== Page 44 =====

Global Market Outlook 10

Key themes

Core scenario (soft landing, 60% probability): We expect the Strait of Hormuz to reopen to traffic in the next few weeks, given 
the constraints on both the US and Iran which argue against a prolonged blockade. This is likely to sustain our base scenario of 
an economic soft landing this year. While near -term inflation is likely to rise with elevated oil prices, an early resolution should 
keep long-term inflation expectations in check, allowing central banks to focus on fundamentals. As near-term inflation rises, we 
expect the Fed to hold rates in H1 but eventually cut by 25bps in H2 as focus turns to reviving the job market. The ECB is likely 
to hike rates once and the BoJ twice to counter inflation, while China eases policy to encourage consumption-led growth.  
Downside risk (hard landing, 30% probability): We raise the risk of a hard landing from 25% if the Middle East conflict leaves 
oil prices significantly higher for longer, delaying Fed rate cuts and negatively impacting real incomes and consumption. A stock 
market downturn hurting investor confidence and/or a bond selloff on inflation and/or debt concerns are other tail risks. 
Upside risk (no landing, 10% probability): In the event of a swift resolution in the Middle East, there is still a chance that US 
tax and Fed rate cuts, fiscal easing in Germany, China and Japan and a potential rollback of US tariffs could revive animal spirits. 
A Russia-Ukraine peace deal, a US-China grand bargain or EU-wide defence spending can potentially lift global growth.

Key chart  
The Fed is likely to focus on 
reviving growth and the job 
market in H2 by cutting rates; 
the ECB, being an inflation- 
targeting bank, is likely to 
deliver an insurance hike to 
counter inflation pressures; 
China, facing low inflation, is 
likely to ease policy 
 Fig. 10 The US faces growth risk, the Euro area stagflation risk due to the Iran crisis 
Consensus estimates for 2026 GDP growth and inflation across major economies

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Policy rates watch  
Fed to hold in H1, cut rates by 25bps to 3.5% by 
December: The US economy was poised for a soft landing 
before the Middle East conflict. Real consumer spending had 
slowed in February, wage growth was decelerating, consumer 
confidence was depressed and the job market was stalling . 
The surge in gasoline prices has delivered an estimated 0.5% 
of GDP equivalent hit to consumer disposable incomes, 
raising the risk of a Q2 growth slowdown. That said, under our 
base s cenario of a short -lived conflict wherein the  Strait of 
Hormuz reopens by May and oil prices retreat towards  USD 
80-90/bbl, the pre -existing US soft -landing story reasserts 
itself, with growth in 2026 estimated just below the 2% trend. 
Corporate margins would be preserved, and the energy shock 
would be absorbed as a temporary soft patch rather than a 
structural downturn. 
A short-lived conflict implies the inflationary impulse remains 
transitory. Inflation swaps are pricing in around 3.3% inflation 
over the next 12 months, but with job markets at a fragile 
equilibrium and wage growth and shelter inflation 
decelerating, the risk of a 1970s-style wage-price spiral is low. 
Tariffs continue to push core goods inflation 3ppt above pre -
tariff trends, keeping inflation sticky even as energy risks fade. 
Against this backdrop, the Fed is likely to remain on pause in 
H1 amid concerns about persistent inflation overshoots and 
wary of energy -price pressures. Nevertheless, under a new 
Chair (once Warsh is confirmed), it is likely to focus on reviving 
a soft job market and resume rate cuts. We expect a 25bps 
cut by December vs. less than half a cut priced by markets. 
ECB to hike rate by 25bps to 2.25% by 2026-end: The Euro 
area economy entered the Middle East conflict with a recovery 
forming beneath the surface, with Germany’s fiscal stimulus 
showing up in factory orders via defence and infrastructure 
demand. If the Strait of Hormuz reopens by May, as the 
central case now suggests, Europe is well -placed for a 
modest rebound, with GDP growth estimated around 1% for 
3.1
2.8
2.0
1.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0
3.5
Apr-25 Aug-25 Dec-25 Apr-26
US Euro area Japan China

6 Macro overview – at a glance

Rajat Bhattacharya 
Senior Investment Strategist


===== Page 45 =====

Global Market Outlook 11 
2026. The key structural tailwind remains Germany's EUR 
500bn infrastructure and climate spending programme, which 
carries large fiscal multipliers. That said, the energy shock has 
added meaningful tail risks: under pessimistic assumptions, 
the annual cost could be roughly 0.7-0.9% of GDP. 
A short -lived conflict limits the inflationary damage. March 
inflation jumped to 2.6% y/y, driven entirely by energy inflation 
rising to 5.1% y/y from -3.1% in February, with no evidence of 
passthrough to core goods, food or services. Crucially, Euro 
area long-term inflation expectations remain anchored around 
2%, supported by the ECB's demonstrated determination to 
rectify any persistent overshoot. Under a muddle through 
scenario, headline inflation remains manageable. 
The ECB has pivoted away from its initially hawkish tone, with 
some policymakers signalling they are in no rush to hike, 
preferring to assess the size and persistence of the inflation 
shock. The April meeting is unlikely to deliver a move, with 
any rate hike more likely in H2. The Euro area jobless rate is 
near record lows, but weaker demand and reduced household 
savings buffers cap the tightening the ECB can deliver. We 
expect one 25bps insurance hike to 2.25% by year-end 2026.  
China to ease monetary/fiscal policies to support growth. 
China entered the Middle East conflict from a position of 
relative structural resilience. Q1 2026 GDP surprised to the 
upside, growing 5.0% y/y, accelerating from 4.5% in Q4 2025, 
driven by strong exports and a rebound in infrastructure 
investment. A short-lived conflict is broadly benign for China's 
growth outlook. Unlike most large energy importers, China's 
total energy exposure to the Middle East via oil and gas 
amounts to a manageable 6.5% of total energy consumption, 
cushioned further by sizable strategic crude reserves of 
approximately 1.2bn barrels (c. 108 days of import cover) and 
the ability to substitute through Russian crude. Critically, a 
short-lived conflict could even prove a net positive: China is 
the world's leading green -technology powerhouse, and the 
energy shock has already triggered a surge in global orders 
for Chinese EVs, solar panels, wind turbines and energy 
storage systems. Green tech now accounts for 11% of China's 
GDP. Given this, we expect 2026 GDP growth to hit the 4.5 -
5% target, further supported by infrastructure investment. 
China’s deflationary pressures are easing, but the outlook 
remains structurally disinflationary. Productivity gains and 
supply-side improvements mean the disinflation impulse from 
industrial and housing overcapacity persists even as domestic 
spending rises gradually. Inflation is unlikely to hit the 
government's 2% target amid weak domestic demand, a still-
fragile property sector, and subdued consumer confidence. 
With activity stabilising at subdued levels, the PBoC is likely 
to stay firmly accommodative, with a 10bps rate cut, another 
reserve ratio reduction, alongside managed RMB 
appreciation in 2026. On the fiscal side, the augmented deficit 
is likely to expand marginally this year, with additional focus 
on effective spending and boosting investment. 
BoJ to hike rates by 50bps to 1.25% by December: Japan’s 
economy entered the Middle East conflict with significant 
domestic momentum. Wage growth has accelerated sharply, 
with contractual cash earnings rising at the strongest pace in 
decades, while Tankan business conditions remain robust. 
However, as one of the world's largest net energy importers, 
Japan is acutely exposed to oil price shocks. If the Strait of 
Hormuz reopens by May, the energy drag could fade and 
Japan's domestic re -acceleration story could reassert itself. 
We expect GDP growth to be supported by accelerating wage 
growth and a structurally undervalued JPY. 
Japan's inflation dynamics are at a critical juncture. Inflation 
expectations are at risk of un -anchoring upwards from 2%. 
The energy shock has added a stagflationary impulse, likely 
pushing headline inflation higher while simultaneously 
weighing on corporate profits and consumption. 
Thus, the Middle East conflict has complicated the BoJ's 
normalisation path: having signalled a hawkish stance after its 
March meeting, the BoJ pivoted to a more cautious tone in 
April, with Governor Ueda emphasising two-way risks to both 
growth and inflat ion. We expect the BoJ to hold rates in H1 
and deliver the next rate hike in Q3, with a subsequent hike to 
1.25% expected in December. On the fiscal side, the Takaichi 
administration has signalled close co-operation with the BoJ, 
with fiscal support antici pated to be broadly commensurate 
with the negative income impact of the oil shock, helping 
cushion the economy through the near-term soft patch.

Fig. 11 Fed to cut rates in H2 to revive a soft job market  Fig. 12 Central bank rates outlooks to diverge in H2 
US quarterly job creation   Consensus estimates for policy rate changes by end-2026

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

-100
0
100
200
300
400
500
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q1*
2022 2023 2024 2025 2026
'000s
US non-farm payrolls
-20
0
20
40
60
80
US
Switzerland
Canada
Japan
UK
Euro area
Australia
New Zealand
Estimated policy rate 
change by Dec-26
Developed Markets


===== Page 46 =====

Global Market Outlook 12

Our view

Foundation: We view fixed income as a Core Holding. Within the asset class, we continue to Overweight EM USD and LCY 
bonds while maintaining an Underweight stance on DM government bonds. The potential US-Iran truce has already attracted 
inflows back to EM assets and should continue to support EM government bond performance, alongside improving fundamentals 
and more attractive valuations v s. DM peers. We have moved DM HY back to a Core Holding from Overweight, as strong 
performance in April has brought credit spreads close to recent tights. Wh ile we still find absolute yields attractive, we do not 
expect income from yields alone to drive further outperformance. Corporate fundamentals remain resilient, with leverage metrics 
largely stable and interest coverage ratios strong. This underpins our preference for credit over rates. 
Opportunistic ideas: We are bullish (i) European bank AT1 bonds (CoCos 1; FX-hedged), (ii) US TIPS, (iii) short -duration US 
HY bonds, (iv) AAA-rated collateralised loan obligations (CLOs), (v) US utilities’ corporate hybrids and (vi) AUD corporate bonds.

Key charts

Fig. 13 Summary of rate forecasts

Region Horizon 2-year 10-year 30-year

US 3m 3.75-4.00% 4.25-4.50% 4.75-5.00% 
12m 3.25-3.50% 3.75-4.00% 4.75-5.00%

Eurozone 3m 2.50-2.75% 3.00-3.25% 3.50-3.75% 
12m 2.25-2.50% 2.75-3.00% 3.25-3.50%

Japan 3m 1.25-1.50% 2.25-2.50% 3.50-3.75% 
12m 1.50-1.75% 2.25-2.50% 3.50-3.75%

Source: Standard Chartered

DM rates – Underweight 
We are Underweight DM Investment Grade ( IG) 
government bonds. In the US, we expect the term premium 
(compensation for holding long -duration bonds) to rise amid 
reflation expectations, a growing fiscal burden and concerns 
over the Fed’s independence. We now expect the Fed to cut 
rates once, to 3.5% by 2026 -end, assuming the Strait of 
Hormuz reopens, and as the Fed shifts its focus toward s 
emerging weakness in the labour market. We expect the US 
curve to bull-steepen as markets begin pricing in a resumption 
of Fed rate cuts. We continue to favour positioning in the belly 
of the curve (5 -7 years) and remain Underweight long-dated 
tenors. We believe higher energy prices will have a greater 
impact on the Euro area and Japan. We expect both the ECB 
and BoJ to raise policy rates – once for the ECB and twice for 
the BoJ by 2026 -end – leading their government bonds to 
underperform the US’ on an FX-hedged basis.

Fig. 14 DM IG corporate spreads retrace following  
US-Iran peace talks 
Bloomberg Global Agg Corp index, OAS-spread

Fig. 15 DM HY corporate spreads tighten back towards 
the lows 
Bloomberg Global HY Corp Index, OAS-spread

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

81.0
111.5
70
90
110
130
150
170
190
Feb-21 Nov-22 Aug-24 May-26
bps
OAS spread 5-year-avg OAS spread
289.2
374.6
200
300
400
500
600
700
Feb-21 Nov-22 Aug-24 May-26
bps
Index OAS 5-year-avg

7 Fixed Income – at a glance

Jonathan Liang, CFA 
CIO, Fixed Income & FX 
Cedric Lam 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Ray Heung 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Anthony Naab, CFA 
Investment Strategist


===== Page 47 =====

Global Market Outlook 13 
DM corporates – Core holding  
We have moved DM HY corporate bonds back to Neutral. 
Since the peace talks resumed, DM HY spreads have 
retraced most of the earlier widening . W e do not expect 
income from yield alone to support further outperformance. 
We continue to maintain a Neutral allocation to DM IG 
corporate bonds. While DM IG spreads have also retraced 
from the recent wides, the move has been less pronounced 
than in DM HY. In our view, AI capex-related supply pressures 
are likely to remain a longer -term overhang on sentiment for 
DM I G. Nevertheless, fundamentals for both IG and HY 
corporates remain resilient, supported by solid profitability and 
stable credit metrics.  
EM bonds – Overweight 
We prefer EM bonds over DM bonds due to their more

attractive yields. We are Overweight both EM USD sovereign 
bonds and EM LCY government bonds . While some EM 
assets remain susceptible to geopolitical uncertainty, most 
EM economies have bolstered their fiscal positions and 
current account balances in recent years. Their robust 
external balances, alongside our expectation of a weak USD, 
should support external debt servicing. In addition, leading EM 
USD bond issuers are net oil exporters, which we believe 
should remain resilient, particularly once the Middle East 
conflicts conclude and oil exports resume. 
We retain our Neutral allocation to Asia USD bonds , which 
offer reasonably attractive nominal yields, favourable supply -
demand dynamics and strong credit fundamentals, supported 
by higher cashflows, relatively low leverage and a higher 
proportion of sovereign or sovereign-linked issuers. 
Fig. 16 EM USD yields look tight relative to DM but still 
offer 2%-plus pickup 
Bloomberg EM USD Quasi/Sov 10% Capped Index, yield to 
worst, and yield over Bloomberg Global Treasury Index

Fig. 17 EM LCY yields remain attractive  
Bloomberg EM LCY Govt Index, yield to worst


===== Page 48 =====

Global Market Outlook 14

Our view

We remain Overweight global equities. Although the Middle East conflict remains volatile, so far we remain comfortable with 
our expectation for mid-teens earnings growth in 2026 driving global equities higher. We remain Overweight US equities, where 
the heavyweight technology sector continues to benefit from AI investments. With the US Q1 26 earnings season underway, we 
look for corporate guidance to validate resilient fundamentals. We are also Overweight Asia ex-Japan (AxJ) equities, where 
technology is the largest sector and is also a beneficiary of AI capex. 
Within AxJ, we have a diversified preference. Our Overweight stance on Taiwan reflects our positive view on semiconductor -
driven earnings growth, while our Overweight on China reflects an attractive valuation re-rating potential amid resilient growth 
and policy support. Meanwhile, our Overweight on India reflects strong domestic growth and is less correlated to the AI theme. 
We have a Core allocation to Japan, where expansionary fiscal plans are a positive offset to energy import sensitivities. We 
remain Underweight Europe ex-UK and UK equities, which have relatively muted earnings growth.

Key chart  
US and AxJ equities are 
leading other regions in 2026 
Index 
12m 
forecast* 
Our 
views 
S&P500 7,750 
US ▲ 
Nasdaq 100 29,700 
Euro Stoxx 50 6,150 Europe 
ex-UK ▼ 
FTSE 100 10,900 UK ▼ 
Hang Seng 28,300 China ▲ 
Nifty 50 26,300 India ▲ 
Nikkei 225 63,400 Japan ◆

Fig. 18 Earnings growth is positive across all global sectors, led by technology; 
corporate earnings growth estimates for AxJ and the US are leading other regions  
Earnings growth by sectors in the MSCI AC World Index in 2026 and 2027; consensus 12-
month forward earnings growth estimates and price-earnings ratio for MSCI equity indices

Source: FactSet, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
* Target prices created as of 24 April 2026. 
Legends: ▲ Most preferred | ▼ Least preferred | ◆ Core holding

Staying positive  
The rally in global equities at the start of 2026 was interrupted 
by the Middle East conflict at the end of February. While the 
path to peace will be volatile, recent ceasefire talks point to 
some form of de-escalation. As we assess the impact on global 
growth prospects, we remain positive that earnings can 
continue to deliver solid growth, supporting equities higher. 
Amid geopolitical risks, AI developments continue to make 
progress, sustaining solid earnings growth in the technology  
sector. This underpins our Overweight view on the US and AxJ 
equities, where tech is the largest sector. In addition, we expect 
an H2 26 Fed rate cut to offer liquidity support to US assets. 
The AxJ region is vulnerable to oil price spikes, so conflict de-
escalation should be a tailwind for growth. Moreover, we expect 
a weak USD over the next 12 months to be a tailwind for AxJ.  
Within AxJ, we are Overweight Taiwan, consistent with the AI 
investment theme driving strong growth in the semiconductor 
industry. However, we also seek out other drivers with our 
Overweight on China and India. China remains at an attractive 
valuation discount, supported by resilient growth. China is also 
pursuing tech innovation with its 15th Five-Year Plan. 
Meanwhile, India offers mid -teens earnings growth, which is 
less correlated to the AI theme and driven by domestic factors. 
As an oil importer, India is vulnerable to the Middle East conflict. 
However, India’s P/E valuation has also de-rated below its five-
year average now, pricing in much of the risks, in our view.  
Japan has outperformed global equities YTD, with optimism 
around the Takaichi government’s fiscal plans. We believe a 
normalisation of monetary policy is also positive for earnings 
growth. However, after the solid performance YTD, we expect 
it to perform in line with global equities in the next 6-12 months. 
Healthcare
Staples
Real estate
Financials
Utilities
Communication
Industrials
Discretionary
Energy
Materials
Technology
MSCI AC World
-10 0 10 20 30 40 50 60
Consensus earnings
growth (%)
2026
2027
0
5
10
15
20
25
0
10
20
30
40
50
AC
World
AxJ US UK Europe
ex-UK
Japan
x
%
12-month forward EPS growth
12-month forward P/E ratio (RHS)

8 Equity – at a glance

Sundeep Gantori, CFA, CAIA 
Chief Investment Officer, Equities 
Fook Hien Yap 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Michelle Kam, CFA 
Investment Strategist 
Jason Wong 
Senior Equity Analyst


===== Page 49 =====

Global Market Outlook 15

Add global gold miners idea 
• We initiate an Opportunistic idea on global gold 
miners. We are constructive on gold prices and expect 
investors to look through near -term liquidity -driven 
weakness. Structural tailwinds remain, including solid 
central bank demand and expectations of a Fed rate cut in 
H2 26. These factors should enhance gold’s appeal and 
support earnings growth for gold miners.  
• We take profit on Europe an banks, locking in a 6.8% 
gain (11 December 2025 -23 April 2026). The sector has 
rebounded strongly since early April on the back of solid 
Q4 25 earnings and a less dovish ECB to support net 
interest income. We are taking profit following the sharp 
rebound to reduce exposure to macro risks. 
• We take profit on China non -financial high -dividend 
state-owned enterprises (SOEs) (H-shares), locking in 
a 56.3% gain (27 March 2024-23 April 2026). The theme 
has benefit ted from government stimulus and investor 
demand for stable dividend income. We remain 
Overweight China equities within AxJ, and our pro ‑risk 
positioning favours a rotation towards more 
growth‑oriented sectors. 
Fig. 19 Opportunistic ideas 
Region Idea 
Global 
Gold miners* 
Global ex-US buybacks 
Global semiconductors 
US US utilities 
US aerospace and defence 
Asia Hang Seng Technology

Source: Standard Chartered. * New idea  
Ongoing ideas 
Global ex-US buybacks: The idea performed well over the 
past month as firms with disciplined capital allocation and a 
strong commitment to shareholder returns outperformed 
under heightened market volatility. Exposure is concentrated 
in financials and energy, supported by strong balance sheets 
and robust cash‑generation. A sharp fall in oil prices is a risk. 
Global semiconductors: We favour this industry within the 
tech sector, supported by accelerating AI -related capex and 
sustained memory chip demand.  With recent valuation de -
rating, the sector offers an attractive entry point. Geopolitical 
tensions resulting in supply chain disruption is a risk. 
US utilities: The sector benefits from accelerating capex and 
rising power demand driven by AI‑related data centre growth. 
It also provides a defensive exposure for portfolio 
diversification, while lower power prices pose a risk. 
US aerospace and defence:  Projected upward revisions in 
the US defence spending budget are likely to support earnings 
growth, on top of structural demand for air travel. Weaker -
than-expected defence spending is a risk. 
Hang Seng Technology: Tech innovation remains a priority 
under China’s 15th Five-Year Plan. The strong AI-related IPO 
pipeline supports investor sentiment, while valuations are 
reasonable. Adverse regulatory changes are risks. 
Sector views: Maintain a barbell approach 
We upgrade US communication services to Overweight , 
amid an improving digital advertising environment and 
growing opportunities to monetise AI investments. Together 
with an Overweight stance on US technology, this provides 
growth exposure within a barbell strategy, balanced by 
defensive exposure to US healthcare and US utilities. The 
latter two sectors offer stable earnings , driven by resilient 
demand across economic cycles, enhancing portfolio 
resilience. We remain Overweight Europe ex-UK financials 
despite closing the short -term European banks opportunistic 
idea, given attractive shareholder returns. 
Our China sector allocation remains unchanged. We expect 
technology and communication services  to continue 
benefiting from tech innovation and supportive government 
policies. Meanwhile we see the healthcare sector  
strengthening, reflected in the improving quality and long-term 
potential of Chinese drug discovery and innovation. 
Fig. 20 Our sector views  
Global top preferred 
sectors 
US technology 
US communication 
US healthcare 
US utilities 
Europe ex-UK financials

China sectors 
Technology 
Communication 
Healthcare 
Financials 
Discretionary 
Materials 
Industrials 
Energy 
Staples 
Utilities 
Real estate

Source: Standard Chartered 
Legends:  Overweight  |  Core  |  Underweight

8 Equity opportunistic views

Sundeep Gantori, CFA, CAIA 
Chief Investment Officer, Equities 
Fook Hien Yap 
Senior Investment Strategist 
Michelle Kam, CFA 
Investment Strategist 
Jason Wong 
Senior Equity Analyst


===== Page 50 =====

Global Market Outlook 16

Our view

• We remain Overweight gold but trim our 3- and 12-month gold price targets to USD 5,200/oz and USD 5,500/oz, respectively 
• We raise our three-month West Texas Intermediate (WTI) oil price forecast to USD 80-90/bbl on expectations that full 
output normalisation will take time.

Key charts

Fig. 21 Structural buying from central banks continues 
to support prices higher, despite a minority net selling 
Largest changes in gold reserves in February 2026

Fig. 22 Gold-silver ratio has recovered towards 
historical average 
Gold-silver ratio

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered   Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Fig. 23 Strait of Hormuz flows highlight Asia’s reliance 
on Gulf crude  
Crude and condensates flows by destination (*H1 2025)

Fig. 24 WTI futures indicate near-term tight supplies, 
but prices are expected to fall by H2 as conflict eases  
Oil supply-demand balance, price estimates

Source: EIA, Vortex, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Gold outlook:  Gold’s recent strength reflects a still -intact 
structural bull case underpinned by safe -haven demand, 
geopolitical risk and diversification away from US assets. We 
expect episodes of central bank selling to remain sporadic, 
with still-net positive overall official demand providing a firm 
anchor. 
Oil outlook:  Our base case assumes a two -phase 
normalisation. While transit flows should recover quickly in a 
scenario where shipping routes reopen, physical supply is 
expected to lag as upstream and export infrastructure damage 
delays a return to pre-conflict output. Lower global inventories 
also reduce the market’s buffer. While we still expect a return 
towards surplus into late 2026, a two-phase recovery and the 
need for inventory rebuilding mean prices are likely to stay in 
the USD 80-90/bbl range for now, with a return to USD 70/bbl 
likely only over a longer 12-month horizon.
-16
-8
0
8
16
24
Turkey
Russian
Federation
Malaysia
Czech Republic
Kazakhstan,
Rep. of
Uzbekistan,
Rep. of
Poland, Rep. of
Tonnes
61.5
67.8
25
45
65
85
105
125
Mar-98 Aug-07 Jan-17 Jun-26
Index
Gold-silver ratio Average
0.0
1.0
2.0
3.0
4.0
5.0
6.0
China India South
Korea
Japan other
Asia
Europe United
States
Other
Mb/d
Volume of crude oil and condensate

15 Gold, crude oil – at a glance

Anthony Naab, CFA 
Investment Strategist


===== Page 51 =====

Global Market Outlook 17

USD view

We have revised down our three-month forecast for the US Dollar Index (DXY) to 96 from 100, with our 12-month forecast 
unchanged at 96. The Middle East conflict, which led to the recent oil price spikes, has highlighted the US’ status as a leading 
energy producer and exporter, leading investors to price in the improvement in their terms of trade from the rise in WTI oil price. 
Assuming the current conflict broadly de-escalates in the coming 3 months and energy prices moderate, the outlook points to 
further underperformance of the USD, and our 12-month target illustrates that most of the adjustment is expected to be front -
loaded. However, the risk of a sudden resurgence in hostilities remains a persistent threat, sustaining investor caution and 
causing currency pairs to largely trade sideways in the near term. Consequently, despite expectations of delayed Fed rate cuts, 
once tensions in the Middle East subside, this should contribute to a depreciation of the USD. 
In our view, significant policy actions by major central banks have already been largely factored into market 
expectations for year -end 2026, with the DXY likely to stabilise around 96 unless fresh catalysts arise. However, this 
outlook faces several risks, including a renewed surge in inflation, a shift towards a more hawkish approach by the Fed or further 
geopolitical shocks. Any of these developments could reignite demand for the USD.

Key charts

Fig. 25 Narrowing interest rate differentials likely to 
drive USD downside risk on a 12-month horizon 
DXY, weighted interest rate differentials & five-year average  
Fig. 26 RBNZ to significantly outpace most central 
banks in magnitude of rate hikes, supporting NZD 
Market expectations of major central bank rate changes as of 
23 April 2026

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered

Fig. 27 NZD upside expected on rate differentials 
advantage amid hawkish RBNZ 
NZD/USD, NZ-US interest rate differentials 
 Fig. 28  USD/CHF downside risk remains. Diversify 
away from excessive exposure to CHF as carry currency 
USD/JPY and forecast levels

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered  Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
98.1100.2
96
96
1.0
1.4
 0.4
 0.9
 1.4
 1.9
 2.4
90
100
110
120
130
Mar-21 Feb-23 Jan-25 Dec-26
%
USD
DXY
DXY 5y average
DXY weighted interest rate differentials (RHS)
5y average (rate)
Forecast DXY
-20
0
20
40
60
80
100
FED SNB BOC BOJ BOE ECB RBA RBNZ
bps
By June 2026 By year-end 2026
0.59
-0.24
-1.20
-0.80
-0.40
0.00
0.40
0.54
0.57
0.60
0.63
0.66
Mar-24 Nov-24 Jul-25 Mar-26
%
NZD/USD NZ-US yield differentials (RHS)
0.78
0.76 0.740.70
0.78
0.86
0.94
1.02
Mar-21 Feb-23 Jan-25 Dec-26
USD/CHF Forecast

10 FX – at a glance

Jonathan Liang, CFA 
CIO, Fixed Income & FX 
Iris Yuen 
Investment Strategist


===== Page 52 =====

Global Market Outlook 18 
Fig. 29 Summary of currency forecasts and drivers

Currency 3m 12m Rationale

EUR/USD 1.21 1.20 
• Bullish EUR/USD: We expect the ECB to maintain a cautious yet hawkish approach, with 
one rate hike by year-end 2026. We see safe-haven demand for the USD reducing, 
prompting currency flows back towards Europe. The EUR has emerged as the second-best 
performing G10 currency over the past month, defying predictions that the energy shock 
caused by the Middle East conflict would negatively impact Europe’s economy.

GBP/USD 1.35 1.30 
• Revise GBP/USD to bullish: The hawkish shift in BoE policy expectations is likely to 
support the pair. Markets are increasingly pricing in rate hikes to combat inflation, restoring 
the currency's yield advantage. Additionally, GBP is viewed as fundamentally undervalued 
and oversold against the EUR based on real rate differentials.

USD/JPY 160 152 
• USD/JPY rangebound with bearish bias. The upside risk is capped by intervention risks 
near the 160 level. We see it skewed towards downside risks stemming from the JPY’s 
extreme fundamental undervaluation and an expected narrowing of yield differentials, 
potentially triggering a corrective rally. Inflation expectations strengthen H2 rate hike hopes.

AUD/USD 0.73 0.75 
• AUD/USD upside remains: The pair is likely supported by a hawkish RBA, which remains 
more restrictive than its peers to combat persistent inflation. This supports a widening yield 
advantage. Meanwhile, improving Chinese economic data and potential stimulus measures 
bolster demand for Australian commodity exports, providing a strong fundamental tailwind.

NZD/USD 0.60 0.61 
• Bullish NZD/USD: The RBNZ is committed to high interest rates to curb sticky inflation, 
maintaining a favourable yield spread. A recovery in global risk sentiment and improving 
demand from key trading partners (eg: China) bolster its outlook as high-beta growth play.

USD/CAD 1.35 1.34 
• USD/CAD range with bearish bias: High oil prices are likely to continue to support the 
CAD. If domestic labour market weakness continues, the oil advantage will not be enough 
to prevent an upside risk, which is not our base case.

USD/CNH 6.80 6.75 
• Bearish USD/CNH: The PBoC could continue to guide the CNH via strong daily fixings. 
Potential Chinese fiscal stimulus and improving economic data could attract capital inflows, 
while a narrowing US-China yield spread as the Fed pivots would further pressure the pair.

USD/CHF 0.76 0.74 
• Bearish USD/CHF: The Swiss growth outlook is expected to improve if a trade agreement 
is ultimately reached and supported by resilient domestic demand. The SNB is expected to 
shift towards a hawkish stance to restore policy flexibility by year-end 2026.

USD/SGD 1.25 1.24 
• The Monetary Authority of Singapore has tightened its monetary policy, strengthening 
the SGD and combating rising inflation. The sustained investor confidence is reflected in 
strong foreign direct investment (FDI), providing long-term structural support to the SGD.

USD/INR - 90 
• Remain bearish USD/INR: India now faces only a 10% tariff under Section 122 following a 
US trade deal and US Supreme Court action, which should support exports and 
manufacturing recovery. With growth headwinds easing, the Reserve Bank of India is likely 
to maintain rates for an extended period.

USD/MYR - 3.80 • Bearish USD/MYR: FDI inflows into data centres, driven by the AI trend and Malaysia’s 
strong growth prospects, support a positive outlook for the MYR.

USD/KRW - 1,430 
• Bearish USD/KRW: The Bank of Korea’s higher consumer inflation forecast is positive for 
the KRW. With Asia’s heavyweight chipmakers riding the AI wave and attracting fresh 
global capital, we see the KRW recovering its recent losses.

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered


===== Page 53 =====

Global Market Outlook 19

Summary

Our 3-6-month stock-bond model maintains a score of +4 out of 5, reflecting a sizeable Overweight in global equities. 
The allocation to global equities was increased in March following market weakness triggered by the Middle East conflict. The  
rationale of maintaining this positioning remains unchanged: (i) more attractive valuation for DM equities, (ii) still-supportive 
fundamentals and (iii) a healthy market breadth, with more than 89% of equity markets trading above their 200 -day moving 
averages (DMAs). While some economic data ha s recently come in weaker than expected, investor sentiment has improved 
after global equities rebounded strongly. As a result, the model has delivered a 5.9% gain YTD and is now ahead of the traditional 
60/40 equity-bond benchmark by 1.67%, largely due to the timely increase in equity allocation.  
Our 1-3-month short-term equity models for S&P500 and MSCI AC World also turned bullish in early April. Both models 
are heavily driven by option-market implied volatility indicators, including the Volatility Index (VIX), which has normalised sharply 
– falling from a late-March peak of 31% to below 20%. While there are early signs of renewed upward pressure on VIX as the 
US-Iran peace talks have stalled, markets appear more resilient and less reactive than during the initial phase of the conflict in 
February. That said, the model signal for MSCI AC World is relatively more cautious due to a widening trading range and 
heightened global sensitivity to inflation-related shocks.  
Our market diversity indicator places USD/CNH and Europe energy sector on the watchlist for potential reversals. 
Investor positionings in both are becoming increasingly stretched, but they have yet to reach levels that trigger a reversal signal. 
Market diversity indicators for the US has normalised after its recent pullbacks.

Key chart  
Our stock-bond model 
increased its Overweight 
allocation to equity in 
March, on the back of 
improved equity valuation, 
still-supportive 
fundamentals and healthy 
market breadth.  
 Fig. 30 Breakdown of our stock-bond rotation model’s scores  
Model score for April 2026 remains at +4 (every mid-month)

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered, 15-April-2026

Our short-term models 
turned bullish on equities 
as option-market implied 
volatilities tapered off 
sharply.

Fig. 31 Our technical model turned bullish on S&P500 
S&P500 Index; model’s bearish signal; technical support and resistance levels

Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered, 22-April-2026

-2
-1
0
1
2
3
4
5
Apr-24 Apr-25 Apr-26
Fundamental Valuation Market breadth Model
OW
Equities
OW 
Bonds
7,418
7,698
6,587
6,037
3,500
4,000
4,500
5,000
5,500
6,000
6,500
7,000
7,500
8,000
Jun-22 Jan-23 Sep-23 Apr-24 Dec-24 Aug-25 Mar-26
Index
Bearish signal S&P500 R1 R2 S1 S2

15 Quant perspective: Bullish equities  
 Francis Lim 
Senior Quantitative Strategist 
Maggie, Au Yeung 
Quantitative Analyst


===== Page 54 =====

Global Market Outlook 20 
Fig. 32 Long- and short-term quantitative models remain bullish risk assets 
Long-term models below have a typical time horizon of 3-6 months, while short-term models have a 1-3-month horizon

Long-term Stock or bond Equity and bond market risks Global inflation-growth regime 
Current view Bullish equities  
(3-6 months) 
Neutral equity, high govt. 
bond market risks 
Steady inflation and growth 
rates 
What 
factors is 
this view 
based on? 
• Fundamental: +1. The 
Economic Surprise Index 
turned negative but offset by 
improved risk sentiment.  
• Valuation: +2. DM equity 
valuation improved, while 
valuation for Asian equity 
remains attractive. 
• Market breadth: +1. 89% of 
equity markets are above their 
200-DMAs, supporting global 
equity uptrend.  
• Equity risk: Neutral. Long-term 
momentum remains supportive 
of trend. Lower inflation and 
broad interest rates are also 
supportive signals. Shrinking 
monetary base is a negative.  
• Government bond risk: High. 
Weak medium-term equity 
momentum makes defensive 
assets more appealing. But 
expansionary PMI, rise in 
commodity prices and jump in 
US housing starts favour risk 
assets more.  
• Global inflation rose to 2.1%, 
slightly above long-term 
average. 12-month consensus 
and regression estimate point 
to around similar level over the 
next 6-12 months. Despite the 
higher inflation estimates, they 
are not drastic.  
• Global industrial production 
y/y fell to 2.1%, in line with the 
long-term average. Consensus 
and regression model estimate 
growth to rise to 2.4-3% over 
the next 6-12 months.   
Key model 
factors 
• Economic activity, macro risk 
and surprise indices, corporate 
earnings, forward price-to-
earnings ratio and technical 
factors. 
• Market factors include interest 
rates, commodity prices and 
equity market momentum. 
Macro factors include US 
housing, inflation, money in 
circulation, capacity utilisation 
and employment. 
• Tracks current and consensus 
estimates of inflation, industrial 
production, and leading 
economic indicators for the US, 
Europe, the UK, China, India 
and South Korea. 
How does it 
work? 
• A monthly scorecard of -5 to 5 
based on fundamental, 
valuation and market breadth 
factors to indicate relative 
preference for bonds and 
equities. A positive score 
favours equities and vice versa. 
• Using risk barometers to gauge 
the likelihood of large sell-offs 
in US equities and government 
bonds. Each barometer ranges 
from 0 to 100, where a value 
below 50 indicates high 
downside risk and vice versa. 
• A macro model of global 
economic cycle (recession, 
recovery, late cycle and 
stagflation) and implications for 
long-term asset class returns.

Short-term Technical analysis Investor positioning  
Current views Stay cautious (1-3 months) Watching out for USD/CNH and Europe Energy 
What factors 
is this view 
based on? 
• Bullish S&P500 after the index gapped up 2% on 8 
April. Model initially turned bearish on 27 February, 
heavily driven by a rapid rise in VIX, which has now 
normalised and fallen below 20%  
• Bullish MSC AC World. Like the S&P500 model, the 
model is heavily driven by option-market volatilities, 
which have normalised sharply.  
• Bullish EUR, GBP and AUD relative to USD. EUR 
has held up relatively well, AUD continued to be 
supported by momentum, while GBP is well-supported 
by higher correlations and wider spreads in rates.  
• Our market diversity indicator places USD/CNH 
on the watchlist for a potential reversal as 
investor positioning looks increasingly 
stretched.  
• Market diversity for US energy has normalised 
after pullback, but European energy sector is 
placed back onto watchlist as it rebounded 
strongly.  
Key model 
factors 
• Market factors: Momentum, volatility, interest rate 
differentials, relative returns, inflation swap rates, 
economic surprises, etc. 
• Price action: Overbought conditions occur 
when prices rise sharply; oversold conditions 
happen when prices fall rapidly in a short time.  
How does it 
work? 
• Scanning through 7,000+ factors, the framework 
uses machine learning to forecast market regimes or 
future trends based on identified market drivers. 
• A market indicator based on fractal analysis 
that provides timely indication of investor 
positioning based on price actions.

Source: Standard Chartered


===== Page 55 =====

Global Market Outlook 21

FOUNDATION   FOUNDATION 
Summary View 
Moderate 
Balanced 
Aggressive 
 Summary 
Conservative 
Cash ▼ 3 3 2  Cash 10 
Fixed Income ◆ 58 38 18  Fixed Income 90 
Equity ▲ 33 54 74    
Gold ▲ 6 6 6    
Asset class 
     Asset class Moderate 
USD Cash ▼ 3 3 2  Cash 10 
DM IG Government Bonds* ▼ 19 10 3  Floating Rate Notes 45 
DM IG Corporate Bonds* ◆ 15 10 5  DM IG Govt (Short duration) 10 
DM HY Corporate Bonds ◆ 3 2 1  DM IG Corp (Short duration) 15 
EM USD Government Bonds ▲ 7 6 4  DM HY (Short duration) 5 
EM Local Ccy Government Bonds ▲ 6 5 2  EM USD Govt (Short duration) 5 
Asia USD Bonds ◆ 8 5 3  EM LCY Govt 5 
North America Equities ▲ 23 37 50  Asia USD bonds 5 
Europe ex-UK Equities ▼ 3 6 8   100 
UK Equities ▼ 0 1 2    
Japan Equities ◆ 2 3 4    
Asia ex-Japan Equities ▲ 4 7 9    
Gold ▲ 6 6 6    
  100 100 100    
Source: Standard Chartered 
All figures in % 
1. Allocation figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding. *FX-hedged 
2. The Conservative TAA is based off the SAA and is not overlaid with any tactical views 
Legends:   ▲ Most preferred  | ▼ Least preferred  | ◆ Core holding

16 Foundation: Asset allocation summary


===== Page 56 =====

Global Market Outlook 22

FOUNDATION+ 
Summary View Moderate Balanced Aggressive 
Cash ▼ 2 2 2 
Fixed Income ◆ 49 30 13 
Equity ▲ 28 43 55 
Alternatives ◆ 20 25 30 
Asset class     
USD Cash ▼ 2 2 2 
DM IG Government Bonds* ▼ 16 8 2 
DM IG Corporate Bonds* ◆ 12 8 4 
DM HY Corporate Bonds ◆ 3 2 1 
EM USD Government Bonds ▲ 6 5 3 
EM Local Ccy Government Bonds ▲ 5 4 2 
Asia USD Bonds ◆ 7 4 2 
North America Equities ▲ 20 29 38 
Europe ex-UK Equities ▼ 3 5 6 
UK Equities ▼ 0 1 1 
Japan Equities ◆ 2 2 3 
Asia ex-Japan Equities ▲ 4 6 7 
Gold ▲ 5 5 5 
Hedge Fund Strategies ◆ 2 3 4 
Private Equity ◆ 2 5 8 
Private Real Assets ◆ 4 4 4 
Private Debt ◆ 5 6 7 
Digital Assets ◆ 2 2 2 
  100 100 100 
Source: Standard Chartered 
All figures in % 
1. Allocation figures may not add up to 100 due to rounding. *FX-hedged 
Legends:   ▲ Most preferred  | ▼ Least preferred  | ◆ Core holding

16 Foundation+: Asset allocation summary


===== Page 57 =====

Global Market Outlook 23

Source: MSCI, JPMorgan, Citigroup, Dow Jones, HFRX, FTSE, Bloomberg, Standard Chartered 
*All performance shown in USD terms, unless otherwise stated 
*YTD performance data from 31 December 2025 to 23 April 2026; 1-week performance from 16 April 2026 to 23 April 2026

18 Market performance summary*


===== Page 58 =====

Global Market Outlook 24

Currency 
USD 
(DXY) 
EUR/ 
USD 
GBP/ 
USD 
USD/ 
JPY 
AUD/ 
USD 
NZD/ 
USD 
USD/ 
CAD 
USD/ 
CNH 
USD/ 
CHF 
Oil  
(WTI, 
USD/ 
bbl) 
Gold  
(USD/ 
oz) 
Fed  
policy rate 
(upper 
bound) 
US  
Treasury  
10y yield 
(%) 
ECB 
policy 
rate

3m forecast 96 1.21 1.35 160 0.73 0.60 1.35 6.80 0.76 80-90 5,200 3.75%  
(Jun-26) 4.25-4.50% 2.00% 
(Jun-26)

12m forecast 96 1.20 1.30 152 0.75 0.61 1.34 6.75 0.74 70 5,500 3.50%  
(Dec-26) 3.75-4.00% 2.25%  
(Dec-26)

Source: Standard Chartered

MAY   1 May > US: PMI  JUN   1 Jun > US: PMI 
   8 May > US: Nonfarm Payrolls     2 Jun > EU: CPI 
   21 May > EU: PMI     5 Jun > US: Nonfarm Payrolls 
        10 Jun > US: CPI 
        11 Jun > EU: ECB policy meeting 
        14-16 Jun > France: 52nd G7 Leaders’ Summit 
        16 Jun > JP: BoJ policy meeting 
        18 Jun > US: Fed policy meeting 
        18 Jun > UK: BoE policy meeting 
        23 Jun > EU: PMI

Legends: ▬ Central bank policy   | ▬ Geopolitics   | ▬ Economic data  
X – Date not confirmed  |  ECB – European Central Bank  |  FOMC – Federal Open Market Committee (US)  |  BoJ – Bank of Japan  |   
BoE – Bank of England

19 Our key forecasts and calendar events


===== Page 59 =====

Global Market Outlook 25

Time is your most precious commodity – be sure to spend it wisely 
Time is undoubtedly valuable. The days may seem long, but the years are short. So, make the choice 
to spend your time wisely. Whether you’re setting out on your investment journey, navigating the 
intricacies of mid -life wealth planning or fortifying assets  for your golden years, invest time today to 
ensure your wealth strategy is aligned to what’s right for you – Today, Tomorrow and Forever. 
Setting aside the time now to review your plan will pay dividends in the future. Markets have moved. 
Your portfolio’s current asset allocation may no longer be optimally positioned to maximise the 
opportunities ahead. Ask yourself the following: Am I holding too much cash? Am I sufficiently allocating 
to growth assets for the long term? Is my portfolio diversified? Am I capturing the best opportunities? 
And most importantly, is my wealth working hard for me so I don’t have to? 
Use our SC Wealth Select framework and advisory specialists to help guide you through this process.

Purpose 
Today,  
Tomorrow,  
Forever 
Our approach to helping you grow and manage 
your wealth starts with you. We use a goals -
aware approach to understand your vision of 
Today, Tomorrow and Forever for yourself, your 
family and beyond, and then design portfolios to 
meet your various needs.  
Using our ‘Today, Tomorrow and Forever’ 
approach, we ensure your wealth needs for the 
near term (Today) are met, while ensuring your 
wealth needs for the decades ahead (Tomorrow 
and Forever) are also planned for.  
Your vision of ‘Today, Tomorrow and Forever’ is 
unique to you. Our specialists partner with you to 
build well -diversified, long -term Foundation 
portfolios, aligned to your Today, Tomorrow and 
Forever needs. Opportunistic ideas are added to 
capture short -term opportunities, a nd sufficient 
protection is included to address the objectives of 
you and your family. 
Today, Tomorrow and Forever 
Approach 
Planning for Today 
Requires ensuring liquidity and income 
flows take centre stage 
Securing Tomorrow 
Entails a well-diversified investment and 
protection portfolio with a focus on growth, 
ensuring inflation is accounted for and risks 
are mitigated 
Building for Forever 
Involves greater focus on long-term returns 
given the time horizon of your portfolio can 
be measured in decades, and might also 
include business interests, real estate, 
collectibles or charitable funds

SC Wealth Select  
 Managing your wealth through the decades – Today, Tomorrow and Forever


===== Page 60 =====

Global Market Outlook 26

Principles 
that stand the 
test of time 
Adhering to time-tested principles, to ensure your 
investment decisions remain robust and 
consistently applied, is paramount to your 
success Today, Tomorrow and Forever. We use 
five Wealth Principles to guide and guardrail your 
wealth decisions.

Discipline – ensure consistency and 
prudence over your emotions 
• Reacting to emotions, such as optimism and 
fear, can lead to poor investment decisions at 
the worst times 
• Have a plan and stick to it – this helps you to 
stay focused on the bigger picture

Diversification – simply put, don’t put 
all your eggs in one basket 
• Reduce risk by holding a variety of financial 
assets. Multi -asset diversification in your 
Foundation portfolio is important 
• As a guide, make sure your portfolio contains 
a variety of asset classes and investments 
that have low correlation with one another

Time in the Market – a more robust 
strategy than timing the market

• Predicting market selloffs is challenging, and 
timing your exit and re-entry is difficult 
• Missing out on the best performing days of a 
market can have a significantly detrimental 
impact on your portfolio 
• ‘Time in the market’ and buying the market 
with a longer -term view provide more 
consistent returns that can ride out bumps 
along the way

Risk and Return – make sure the risk 
is worth the return 
• To achieve higher investment returns, you will 
likely have to accept a greater level of risk in 
your portfolio 
• Therefore, it’s important to understand the 
risks and manage these on an ongoing basis

Protection – don’t let the unexpected 
catch you unprepared 
• Even though you may feel healthy, or 
financially stable now, protection offers the 
ability to overcome times of financial 
uncertainty and mitigate the long-term impact 
of unforeseen events on your wealth 
• A good protection plan not only safeguards 
your wealth today, but also considers the 
value of your future earnings over your 
lifetime, in today’s terms

Advisory 
Process 
Following a 
holistic 
approach to 
managing  
your wealth 
We follow a rigorous process to ensure your 
needs and objectives are well -understood, and 
your portfolio is well-aligned and manage s to  
deliver on these objectives. 
However, markets constantly evolve and your 
needs change. Hence, we encourage you to 
undertake regular portfolio reviews to ensure your 
portfolio remains aligned to your Today, 
Tomorrow and Forever objectives. This proactive 
approach includes strategic reb alancing based 
on insights from our Chief Investment Office.

Learn more 
Scan the QR code below to learn more about 
our approach to growing, managing and 
protecting your wealth.

The five-step process

Showcase 
Learn how  
our advisory framework  
can help you 
Discover 
Let us understand 
your needs, 
preferences and 
goals better 
Propose 
We’ll design a  
Foundation portfolio with 
Opportunistic overlays, 
which is tailored for you 
Implement 
Allow us to 
implement your 
portfolio seamlessly 
and efficiently 
Monitor & Review 
It’s important to  
regularly review  
and rebalance  
your portfolio 
Please be sure to reach out to your Relationship Manager today to arrange a portfolio review.


===== Page 61 =====

Market views on-the-go 
MVOG

SC Wealth Insights 
Find out more

YouTube

Facebook

LinkedIn

PvB LinkedIn

SC Money 
Insights 
4 podcasts shows on Spotify 
and Apple platforms

Spotify

Apple Podcasts

Speak to your Relationship Manager/Investment Advisor today for access to our security specific publications.

Access our views 24/7 on key platforms


===== Page 62 =====

Global Market Outlook 28

1 Explanatory notes


===== Page 63 =====

and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. While CFRA exercised due care in compiling this analysis, CFRA, ITS
THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS, AND ALL RELATED ENTITIES SPECIFICALLY DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, to the full extent permitted by law, regard ing the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness of
this information and assumes no liability with respect to the consequences of relying on this information for investment or o ther

purposes. No content provided by CFRA (including ratings, credit-related analyses and data, valuations, model, software or other
application or output therefrom) or any part thereof may be modified, reverse engineered, reproduced or distributed in any fo rm
by any means, or stored in a database or retrieval system, without the prior  written permission of CFRA, and such content shall
not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. CFRA and any third -party providers, as well as their directors, officers,

shareholders, employees or agents do not guarantee the accuracy, completene ss, timeliness or availability of such content. In
no event shall CFRA, its affiliates, or their third-party suppliers be liable for any direct, indirect, special, or consequential damages,
costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including lost income or lost profit and opportunity costs) in connection with a subscriber’s,
subscriber’s customer’s, or other’s use of CFRA’s content.

Banking activities may be carried out internationally by different branches, subsidiaries and affiliates within the Standard
Chartered Group according to local regulatory requirements. Opinions may contain outright “buy”, “sell”, “hold” or other opinions.
The time horizon of this opinion is dependent on prevailing market conditions and there is no planned frequency for updates t o
the opinion. This opinion is not independent of Standard Chartered Group’s trading strategies or positions. Standard Chartere d

Group and/or its affiliates or its respective officers, directors, employee benefit programmes or employees, including persons
involved in the preparation or issuance of this document may at any time, to the extent permitted by applicable law and/or
regulation, be long or short any securities or financial instruments referred to in this document or have material interest in any
such securities or related investments. Therefore, it is possible, and you should assume, that Standard Chartered Group has a

this company/issuer. All covering strategist are licensed to provide investment recommendations under Monetary Authority of
Singapore or Hong Kong Monetary Authority. This document must not be forwarded or otherwise made available to any other
person without the express written consent of Standard Chartered Group.
Sustainable Investments
Any ESG data used or referred to has been provided by Morningstar, Sustainalytics, MSCI or Bloomberg. Refer to 1) Morningstar

website under Sustainable Investing, 2) Sustainalytics website under ESG Risk Ratings, 3) MCSI website under ESG Business
Involvement Screening Research and 4) Bloomberg green, social & sustainability bonds guide for more information. The ESG
data is as at the date of publication based on data provided, is for informational purpose only and is not warranted to be complete,
timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose, and it may be subject to change. Sustainable Investments (SI): This refers

to funds that have been classified as ‘ ESG Intentional Investments - Overall’ by Morningstar. SI funds have explicitly stated in
their prospectus and regulatory filings that they either incorporate ESG factors into the investment process or have a themat ic
focus on the environment, gender diversity, low carbon, renewable energy, water or community development. For equity, it refers
to shar es/stocks issued by companies with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating of Low/Negligible. For bonds, it refers to debt

instruments issued by issuers with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating of Low/Negligible, and/or those being certified green, social,
sustainable b onds by Bloomberg. For structured products, it refers to products that are issued by any issuer who has a
Sustainable Finance framework that aligns with Standard Chartered’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework, with
underlying assets that are part of t he Sustainable Investment universe or separately approved by Standard Chartered’s

Bahrain: This document is being distributed in Bahrain by Standard Chartered Bank, Bahrain Branch, having its address at P.O.
29, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain, is a branch of Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed by the Central Bank of Bahrain as a
conventional ret ail bank.  Botswana: This document is being distributed in Botswana by, and is attributable to, Standard
Chartered Bank Botswana Limited which is a financial institution licensed under the Section 6 of the Banking Act CAP 46.04 and

is listed in the  Botswana Stock Exchange. Brunei Darussalam: This document is being distributed in Brunei Darussalam by,
and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Brunei Branch) | Registration Number RFC/61 and Standard Chartered


===== Page 64 =====

Global Market Outlook 30
Securities (B) Sdn Bhd  | Registration Number RC20001003. Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with limited
liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18. Standard Chartered Securities (B) Sdn Bhd is a limited liability company
registered with the Registry of Companies with Registration Number RC20001003 and licensed by Brunei Darussalam Central
Bank as a Capital Markets Service License Holder with License Number BDCB/R/CMU/S3 -CL and it is authorised to conduct

Administration (NFRA), State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), and People’s  Bank of China (PBOC). Hong Kong:
In Hong Kong, this document, except for any portion advising on or facilitating any decision on futures contracts trading, is
distributed by Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (“SCBHK”), a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC. SCBHK has
its registered address at 32/F, Standard Chartered Bank Building, 4 -4A Des Voeux Road Central, Hong Kong and is regulated

by the Hong Kong Monetary Authority and registered with the Securities and Futures Comm ission (“SFC”) to carry on Type 1
(dealing in securities), Type 4 (advising on securities), Type 6 (advising on corporate finance) and Type 9 (asset management )
regulated activity under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap. 571) (“SFO”) (CE No. AJI614 ). The contents of this
document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong Kong and you are advised to exercise caution in relation

to any offer set out herein. If you are in doubt about any of the contents of this document, you should obt ain independent
professional advice. Any product named herein may not be offered or sold in Hong Kong by means of any document at any time
other than to “professional investors” as defined in the SFO and any rules made under that ordinance. In addition, this document
may not be issued or possessed for the purposes of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, and any interests may not be

disposed of, to any person unless such person is outside Hong Kong or is a “professional investor” as defined in the SFO a nd
any rules made under that ordinance, or as otherwise may be permitted by that ordinance. In Hong Kong, Standard Chartered
Private Bank is the private banking division of SCBHK,  a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC . Ghana: Standard Chartered
Bank Ghana Limited accepts no liability and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising directly or indirectly (including

adviser on the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment to invest in an
investment. To unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to feedback . ghana @ sc . com. Please do not
reply to this email. Call our Priority Banking on 0302610750 for any questions or service queries. You are advised not to sen d
any confidential and/or important information to Standard Chartered via e-mail, as Standard Chartered makes no representations

or warranties as to the security or accuracy of any information transmitted via e-mail. Standard Chartered shall not be responsible
for any loss or damage suffered by you arising from your decision to use e -mail to communicate with the Bank. India: This
document is being distributed in India by Standard Chartered in its capacity as a distributor of mutual funds and referrer of  any
other third party financial products. Standard Chartered does not offer any ‘Investment Advice’ as defined in the Securi ties and

Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 or otherwise. Services/products related securities business
offered by Standard Charted are not intended for any person, who is a resident of any jurisdiction, the laws of which  imposes
prohibition on soliciting the securities business in that jurisdiction without going through the registration requirements an d/or
prohibit the use of any information contained in this document. Indonesia: This document is being distributed in Indonesia by

Standard Chartered Bank, Indonesia branch, which is a financial institution licensed and supervised by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan
(Financial Service Authority) and Bank Indonesia. Jersey: In Jersey, Standard Chartered Private Bank is the Registered
Business Name of the Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank. The Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank is regulated
by the Jersey Financial Services Commission. Copies of the latest audited accounts of Standard Chartered Bank are available

from its principal place of business in Jersey: PO Box 80, 15 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PT. Standard Chartered Bank
is incorporated in England with limited liability by Royal Charter in 1853 Reference Number ZC 18. The Principal Office of th e
Company is sit uated in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the
Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. The

Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank is also an authorised financial services provider under license number 44946 issued
by the Financial Sector Conduct Authority of the Republic of South Africa. Jersey is not part of the United Kingdom and all
business transacted with Standard Chartered Bank, Jersey Branch and other SC Group Entity outside of the United Kingdom,
are not subject to some or any of the investor protection and compensation schemes available under United Kingdom law.

Kenya: This document is being distributed in Kenya by and is attributable to Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited. Investment
Products and Services are distributed by Standard Chartered Investment Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of
Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited that is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority in Kenya, as a Fund Manager. Standard
Chartered Bank Kenya Limited is regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya. Malaysia: This document is being distributed in

Malaysia by Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad (“SCBMB”). Recipients in Malaysia should contact SCBMB in relation
to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. This document has not been revi ewed by the Securities
Commission Malaysia. The product lodgement, registration, submission or approval by the Se curities Commission of Malaysia


===== Page 65 =====

Global Market Outlook 31
does not amount to nor indicate recommendation or endorsement of the product, service or promotional activity. Investment
products are not deposits and are not obligations of, not guaranteed by, and not protected by SCBMB or any of the affiliates or
subsidiaries, or by Perbadanan Insurans Deposit Malaysia, any government or insurance agency. Investment products are
subject to investment risks, including the possible loss of the principal amount invested. SCBMB expressly disclaim any liability

and responsibility for any loss arising directly or indirectly (including special, incidental or consequential loss or damage) arising
from the financial losses of the Investment Products due to market condition. Nigeria: This document is being distributed in
Nigeria by Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited (SCB Nigeria), a bank duly licensed and regulated by the Central Bank of
Nigeria. SCB Nigeria accepts no liability for any loss or damage arising directly or indirect ly (including special, incidental or

consequential loss or damage) from your use of these documents. You should seek advice from a financial adviser on the
suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment to invest in an investment. To
unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to clientcare . ng @ sc . com requesting to be removed from our
mailing list. Please do not reply to this email. Call our Priority Banking on 02 012772514 for any questions or service queri es.

of any information transmitted via e -mail.  Pakistan: This document is being distributed in Paki stan by, and attributable to
Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited having its registered office at PO Box 5556, I.I Chundrigar Road Karachi, which is
a banking company registered with State Bank of Pakistan under Banking Companies Ordinance 1962 and i s also having
licensed issued by Securities & Exchange Commission of Pakistan for Security Advisors. Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan)

Limited acts as a distributor of mutual funds and referrer of other third -party financial products. Singapore: This document is
being distributed in Singapore by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited (Registration No.
201224747C/ GST Group Registration No. MR-8500053-0, “SCBSL”). Recipients in Singapore should contact SCBSL in relation
to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. SCBSL is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Standard

Chartered Bank and is licensed to conduct banking business in Singapore under the Singapore Banking Act, 1970. Standard
Chartered Private Bank is the private banking division of SCBSL. IN RELATION TO ANY SECURITY OR SECURITIES-BASED
DERIVATIVES CONTRACT REFERRED TO IN THIS DOCUMENT, THIS DOCUMENT, TOGETHER WITH THE ISSUER
DOCUMENTATION, SHALL BE DEEMED AN INFORMATION MEMORANDUM (AS DEFINED IN  SECTION 275 OF THE
SECURITIES AND FUTURES ACT, 2001 (“SFA”)). THIS DOCUMENT IS INTENDED FOR DISTRIBUTION TO ACCREDITED

INVESTORS, AS DEFINED IN SECTION 4A(1)(a) OF THE SFA, OR ON THE BASIS THAT THE SECURITY OR SECURITIES-
BASED DERIVATIVES CONTRACT MAY ONL Y BE ACQUIRED AT A CONSIDERATION OF NOT LESS THAN S$200,000
(OR ITS EQUIVALENT IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY) FOR EACH TRANSACTION. Further, in relation to any security or
securities-based derivatives contract, neither this document nor the Issuer Documentation has been registered as a prospectus
with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the SFA. Accordingly, this document and any other document or material in

connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for subscription or purchase, of the product may not  be circulated or distributed,
nor may the product be offered or sold, or be made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directl y or
indirectly, to persons other than a relevant person pursuant to section 275(1) of the SFA, or a ny person pursuant to section
275(1A) of the SFA, and in accordance with the conditions specified in section 275 of the SFA, or pursuant to, and in accordance

with the conditions of, any other applicable provision of the SFA. In relation to any collective investment schemes referred to in
this document, this document is for general information purposes only and is not an offering document or prospectus (as defined
in the SFA). This document is not, nor is it intended to be (i) an offer or solicitation of an  offer to buy or sell any capital markets
product; or (ii) an advertisement of an offer or intended offer of any capital markets product. Deposit Insurance Scheme:

Singapore dollar deposits of non -bank depositors are insured by the Singapore Deposit Insura nce Corporation, for up to
S$100,000 in aggregate per depositor per Scheme member by law. Foreign currency deposits, dual currency investments,
structured deposits and other investment products are not insured. This advertisement has not been reviewed by t he Monetary
Authority of Singapore. Taiwan: SC Group Entity  or Standard Chartered Bank (Taiwan) Limited (“SCB (Taiwan)”) may be

involved in the financial instruments contained herein or other related financial instruments. The author of this document ma y
have discussed the information contained herein with other employees or agents of SC or SCB (Taiwan). The author and the
above-mentioned employees of SC or SCB (Taiwan) may have taken related actions in respect of the information involved
(including communication with customers of SC or SCB (Taiwan) as to the information contained herein). The opinions contained

in this document may change, or differ from the opinions of employees of SC or SCB (Taiwan). SC and SCB (Taiwan) will not
provide any notice of any changes to or differences between the above -mentioned opinions. This document may cover
companies with which SC or SCB (Taiwan) seeks to do business at times and issuers of financial instruments. Therefore,
investors should understand that the information contained herein may serve as specific purposes as a result of conflict of

interests of SC or SCB (Taiwan). SC, SCB (Taiwan), the employees (including those who have discussions with the author) or
customers of SC or SCB (Taiwan) may have an interest in th e products, related financial instruments or related derivative
financial products contained herein; invest in those products at various prices and on different market conditions; have different


===== Page 66 =====

or conflicting interests in those products. The potential impacts include market makers’ related activities, such as dealing,
investment, acting as agents, or performing financial or consulting services in relation to any of the products referred to i n this
document. UAE: DIFC - Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853
Reference Number ZC18.The Principal Office of the Company is situated in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V

Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. Standard Chartered Bank, Dubai International Financial Centre having its offices
at Dubai International Financial Centre, Building 1, Gate Precinct, P.O. Box 999, Dubai, UAE is a branch of Standard Chartered
Bank and is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). This document is intended for use only by Professional
Clients and is not directed at Retail Clients as defined by the DFSA Rulebook. In the DIFC we are authorised to provide financial

services only to clients who qualify as Professional Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail Clients. As a Professional
Client you will not be given the higher retail client protection and compensation rights and if you use your right to be classified
as a Retail Client we will be unable to provide financial services and products to you as we do not hold the required license  to
undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shariah Supervisory Committee.

Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank website in
the Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by the Central Bank of
the U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide
financial analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodities Authority

Decision No. 48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis . Uganda:  Our Investment products and
services are distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an
investment adviser. United Kingdom: In the UK, Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. This communication has been approved

by Standard Chartered Bank for the purposes of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and Markets Act
2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Private Bank) is
also an authorised financial services provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial Advisory and
Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal requirements designed to

promote the independence of investment research, and that it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the
dissemination of investment research. Vietnam: This document is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard
Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulated by State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should
contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited fo r any queries regarding any con tent of this document. Zambia: This

document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company incorporated in Zambia and registered as a
commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws
of Zambia.
