===== Page 1 =====

Modern
Slavery Statement
2025


===== Page 2 =====

Modern Slavery Statement 2025
Contents
02 Who we are and what we do
04 Key actions taken to address modern slavery
risks in 2025
06 Our approach
08 Modern slavery risks within our operations
and supply chain
09 How we approach managing modern slavery
risk with clients
10 How we approach managing modern slavery
risk with suppliers
12 How we approach managing modern slavery
risk with our workforce
14 Supporting shared action
15 Assessing effectiveness of our actions

16 Consultation and approval
17 Appendix 1: Modern Slavery Act Reporting Criteria
Discover more in our
suite of reports
We’re a global bank connecting clients to our
unique network, offering growth opportunities
in the world’s most dynamic markets. Our strategy,
which combines cross-border capabilities and
wealth management expertise, helps us deliver
our purpose – to drive commerce and prosperity
through our unique diversity.
This report is part of a wider suite of corporate

visit sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Our connected policies and position statements
Visit sc.com/sustainabilitylibrary
Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 2025b
Human Rights
position
statement
Code of conduct
and ethics
Supplier
Charter
Speaking
Up Policy
Fair Pay
Charter


===== Page 3 =====

Introduction
This is a Modern Slavery Statement (‘Statement’) under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015
and Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth) for the financial year ended 31 December
2025. This Statement sets out the actions we have taken during the year towards meeting
the legal requirements of those Acts.
The Statement is made by Standard Chartered PLC and its owned or controlled entities
(together ‘Standard Chartered’, ‘the Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’) unless stated otherwise.

It applies to those companies within the Group that are required to publish a statement
as listed under ‘Scope of Statement’ on page 16.
For the purposes of the Australian Act, the Reporting Entity is Standard Chartered Bank
(‘SCB’), a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard Chartered Holdings Limited (itself a wholly
owned subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC).
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 1


===== Page 4 =====

Who we are and what we do
Total operating income
$20,894m
Underlying basis
$20,942m
Reported basis
How we serve clients
We connect corporate, institutional and affluent
clients to growth opportunities across our network.
We serve three client segments
We’ve been supporting clients
since opening our doors in Mumbai,
Kolkata and Shanghai in 1858
and we remain the ambitious,
network-driven bank we set out
to be more than 170 years ago.
Corporate & Investment Banking

Supports large corporations, development organisations,
governments, and financial institutions with risk
management, advisory and financing solutions.
Operating income
Underlying basis
$12,394m
Reported basis
$12,349m
Operating income
Underlying basis
$8,464m
Reported basis
$8,465m
Wealth & Retail Banking
Serves the local and international banking needs
of our clients across the wealth continuum with a
focus on the affluent segment, while supporting

small and medium-sized enterprises.
Central and other items
Operating income
Underlying basis: $(379)m
Reported basis
$(287)m
Operating income
Underlying basis
$415m
Reported basis
$415m
Ventures
Promotes a culture of innovation across the Group,
investing in disruptive financial technology and creating
alternative financial service business models, as well as
growing our digital banks – Mox and Trust.
Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 20252

Read more on our client segments on pages 24 to 31
of our 2025 Annual Report and Accounts


===== Page 5 =====

What makes us different
Our strength lies in the connectivity of
our markets, the diversity of our people
and the depth of our client relationships.
Where we operate
We operate in the world’s most
dynamic markets, which set the pace
for global growth and prosperity.
Our purpose and culture
Our distinctive culture has been developed in pursuit of our purpose – to drive commerce
and prosperity through our unique diversity.
We’re committed to promoting equality and inclusion, as it’s our diversity that sets us apart and helps us drive

business growth. We are guided by our valued behaviours, and our brand promise, here for good.
Workforce
In 2025 the Group employed 81,832 Full Time Equivalent (FTE) employees. For further information, please refer
to the supplementary people information section included on page 444 in our 2025 Annual Report and Accounts.
Our distinctive strengths, such as our expertise
in managing generational wealth, our commitment
to mobilising sustainable finance, and our innovative

approach, are just some of the qualities that set us apart.
Our strengths
Our footprint and network
We help clients do business across borders through
our network of high-growth and established markets.
Our wealth management expertise
We help generations grow and protect their wealth,
offering local and global expertise.
Our commitment to sustainable finance
We mobilise capital to deliver sustainable and inclusive
growth for our clients and the communities we call home.

Our emphasis on innovation
We scale fintechs and invest in ventures supporting
digital transformation and product development.
Read more in our business model on page 10 of our
2025 Annual Report and Accounts
Our unique geographic footprint connects high-growth
and emerging markets in Asia, Africa and the Middle
East with more established economies in Europe and
the Americas, allowing us to channel capital to where
it’s needed most.
We serve clients across

54
global locations
Do the right thing Never settle Better together
Our purpose
To drive commerce and prosperity through our unique diversity.
Valued behaviours
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 3
Read more in our client segment review on pages 24 to 31
of our 2025 Annual Report and Accounts
Read more on our people and culture on pages 32 to 36 of our 2025 Annual Report and Accounts


===== Page 6 =====

Our clients
Improved our client-level ESG
assessments to target human
rights and labour rights risks.
Our supply chain
Increased the number of
on-site audits conducted
covering suppliers in furniture
manufacturing and installation,
cleaning, security, cash
management, and
cheque processing.
Our workforce
Continued efforts to improve how
the Group tackles non-financial
misconduct amongst its
employees with focus this year
placed on targeted employee

education and enhanced incident
reporting and controls.
Improved training provided
regarding Modern Slavery and
Human Rights (‘MSHR’) risks.
Key actions taken to address modern
slavery risks in 2025
Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 20254


===== Page 7 =====

Building on our actions in previous years, we took the
following steps in 2025 in support of our aim to assess and
manage the risk of modern slavery and human trafficking.
Clients
Sector-specific Position Statements:
We continued to review our environmental and social (‘E&S’)
requirements for sensitive sectors to better understand how
clients manage their impacts on workers, communities and
other stakeholders connected to their activities, including

identifying and assessing potential human rights issues
and in taking appropriate actions to remediate any
adverse impacts.
Client assessments:
We continued to identify, track and monitor allegations
of human rights violations against our clients in our risk
assessments. In 2025, we increased the focus of these
assessments on human and labour rights risks within our
Client Environmental, Social, Governance and Reputational
Risk Assessment (‘Client ESGRA’), guided by our sectoral and

cross-sectoral Position Statements, including Human Rights
Position Statement.
Supply chain
In 2025, Supply Chain Management (‘SCM’) scaled up its
modern slavery audit program, conducting 11 on-site audits
across 6 markets (India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Hong Kong,
Pakistan and Zambia) covering suppliers in furniture
manufacturing and installation, cleaning, security, cash
management, and cheque processing. The focus this year
shifted towards small and medium tier-1 suppliers as well

as a few relevant sub-contractors in high-risk markets,
which had not been covered in previous audits.
Workforce
In 2025 we saw a sustained and increased focus on the way
the Group tackles incidences of non-financial misconduct
(‘NFM’) (i.e., types of behavioural misconduct that do not
relate to the provision of financial services by the Group,
including victimisation). Key among these initiatives has
been the implementation of educational programs and

tailored learning interventions aimed at key employees at
all levels, to raise awareness and understanding of NFM
issues (i.e., types of behavioural misconduct such as
discrimination, harassment, victimisation and other
violations of human rights).
Through the actions undertaken in 2025, the Group
reaffirms its commitment to fostering a safe, inclusive and
respectful workplace aligned with the international human
rights standards.
Key actions taken to address modern slavery risks in 2025

Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 5


===== Page 8 =====

We strive to be a responsible company
and respect human rights across our
business. This is embedded in our Code
of Conduct and Ethics and our valued
behaviours, which provide the guiding
principles for how we work together
and the way we do business.
Modern slavery represents some of the gravest forms of
human rights abuses. We recognise that the global nature
of our business may expose us to the risk of modern slavery
in our operations, supply chain and client relationships and

we are committed to identifying, preventing, mitigating
and remediating these risks. This is an ongoing process,
as evidenced by the actions detailed within the ‘Enhancing
our approach’ sections throughout this Statement.
Governance
At the board level, the Culture and Sustainability Committee
(‘CSC’) provides oversight and review of the Group’s culture
and sustainability strategy, while the Board Risk Committee
(‘BRC’) exercises oversight on Environmental, Social and

Governance and Reputational (‘ESGR’) risks as part
of the Principal Risk Types identified for the Group.
The CSC also has responsibility for reviewing the Group’s
delivery against the related cross sector and sector specific
Position Statements that set out our E&S specific criteria
(‘Position Statements’), and the Standard Chartered PLC
Board exercises oversight of any changes and approval
where necessary.
At the executive level, the Group Risk Committee delegates

authority to ensure effective management of ESGR risk to
the Group Responsibility and Reputational Risk Committee
(‘GRRRC’). The GRRRC has responsibility for reviewing and
approving the Environmental and Social Risk Management
(‘ESRM’) Framework and Position Statements at the executive
level, and for overseeing the risk appetite metrics and
escalations associated with ESGR risk. Where deemed
necessary and material, the GRRRC may escalate changes
to the Position Statements to the Group Management

Team for endorsement and to the Board for approval.
The GRRRC oversight and guidance process captures all
entities within the Group and provides an appropriate forum
for consultation with respect to how we manage modern
slavery risks across the Group, as reflected in this Statement.
Our approach
Standard Chartered PLC’s governance of modern slavery risk
Board oversight
Standard Chartered PLC Board
Board Risk Committee (BRC) Culture and Sustainability Committee (CSC)

Management-level governance
Group Management Team
Group Risk Committee (GRC) Group Responsibility and
Reputational Risk Committee (GRRRC)
Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 20256


===== Page 9 =====

Our approach to managing modern
slavery risks is guided by the following
frameworks and policies:
Code of Conduct and Ethics
Our Group-wide Code of Conduct and Ethics (‘the Code’)
reflects our human rights commitments, confirming our
ambition to respect human rights in our activities with
employees, suppliers and clients. The Code requires staff
to comply with the spirit and letter of laws and regulations.
We are accountable by complying with laws, regulations,

policies, the Code, the best market standards, and
the practices that we follow. To reinforce our shared
commitment to the highest standards of conduct, each
year we ask employees to reconsider what the Code means
to them and recommit to it through a mandatory refresher
e-learning module.
See our Code of Conduct and Ethics at
sc.com/codeofconductandethics
Environmental and Social Risk Management
Our approach to managing and mitigating E&S risks is

reflected in our ESRM Framework. This framework provides
an overview of our approach to identifying, assessing,
and managing the E&S risks associated with our client
relationships. Our approach to managing E&S risk is
informed by international conventions, national laws
and regulations and industry standards and best practices.
These requirements are translated into cross-sector and
sector-specific E&S criteria, as articulated in our Position
Statements that we assess our clients and transactions

against. Compliance with our Position Statements is
considered in the credit approval process for Corporate
and Investment Banking (‘CIB’) clients and transactions.
The framework also applies to Merger & Acquisition (‘M&A’)
advisory services and debt capital market underwriting.
For our Wealth & Retail Banking (‘WRB’) business, E&S risk
is managed by screening at loan origination / credit initiation
and through the credit approval process against our cross-

sector and sector-specific Position Statements, where
applicable, and other heightened sensitivity sectors and issues.
We regularly review our Position Statements to ensure
they align with industry best practice and stakeholder
expectations. In 2024, we published revised versions of
all our sector-specific and cross-sector Position Statements,
and in 2025, we have broadened the focus of our risk
assessments by including specific questions that assess a

client’s approach to human and labour rights risks within our
Client ESGRA guided by our sector and cross-sectoral Position
Statements including our Human Rights Position Statement.
See our ESRM Framework at sc.com/esriskframework
Position Statement on Human Rights
We are committed to respecting human rights across
our business as defined in the International Bill of Human
Rights,1 and the International Labour Organisation (ILO)
Declaration on Fundamental Principles and Rights at Work.

Our commitment is guided by the UN Guiding Principles
on Business and Human Rights (UNGPs), the United Nations
Global Compact, the OECD Guidelines for Multinational
Enterprises on Responsible Business Conduct and the
International Financial Corporation (‘IFC’) Performance
Standards on Environmental and Social Sustainability
and related Guidelines.
Our Human Rights Position Statement applies to our clients,
suppliers and employees and is regularly reviewed to ensure

it addresses emerging risks and issues and is available on the
Group’s website.
See our Human Rights Position Statement at
sc.com/positionstatements
Supplier Charter
Our Supplier Charter sets out the principles for the behaviour
that we expect from all our suppliers, and their subcontractors
who provide goods and/or services to the Group. It includes
an expectation that suppliers work to support and respect
the protection of human rights. Where suppliers have caused

or contributed to adverse impacts, they are expected to provide
or cooperate in the remediation process. Standard Chartered
prohibits human trafficking, forced labour, and modern
slavery, and expects its suppliers to uphold these standards.
Standard Chartered will not knowingly enter into
relationships with suppliers involved in modern slavery.
All newly onboarded suppliers are expected to agree
to the principles set out in our Supplier Charter.
We seek to reinforce this through the terms of our contractual

agreements where possible, and enforce the supply charter
principles through communications shared with active suppliers
annually. Our Supplier Charter is available on our website.
See our Supplier Charter at sc.com/suppliercharter
Speaking Up
To support a culture of strong ethics, trust, integrity and
openness, the Group encourages employees, contractors,
suppliers and members of the public to raise concerns
through the Group Speaking Up programme which offers

secure, confidential channels to report actual or potential
misconduct without fear of retaliation. Third parties and
suppliers can make reports by using a secure and
independent third-party web-based channel.
The website accepts reports in a range of languages and
these can be made anonymously. Reports will be handled
by Standard Chartered in strict confidence.
Employees are informed of the Speaking Up programme
through our mandatory Code of Conduct and Ethics training

provided on an annual basis. Additionally, there is an internal
webpage available to employees providing information
on the reporting channels and key pillars of the Speaking
Up Programme. We also communicate our Speaking Up
programme to our suppliers through our Supplier Charter.
See our Speaking Up policy at sc.com/speakingup
1 Comprising the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights, and the International Covenant

on Civil and Political Rights.
Our approach
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 7


===== Page 10 =====

How we manage modern slavery risks
When referring to our own operations and supply chain,
for the purposes of this Statement the term ‘modern slavery
risk’ refers to the risk of adverse human rights impacts to
individuals, as opposed to the risks to our business. In
reframing the concept of risk in the context of modern
slavery, we assess our potential connections to adverse
human rights impacts in accordance with the UNGPs
‘continuum of involvement’ which specifies three distinct

categories of involvement, outlined below:
• Cause: The business’ operations directly result in modern
slavery practices.
• Contribute to: The business’ operations or actions
in its supply chain may contribute to modern slavery,
including through acts or omissions that facilitate
or incentivise slavery.
• Directly linked: The business’ operations, products
or services may be connected to modern slavery
through the activities of another entity it has a business

relationship with.
Please refer to the ‘assessing effectiveness of our actions’
on page 15 for the metrics that we track to determine our
effectiveness of managing modern slavery risk within our
operations and supply chain.
Modern slavery risks in our operations
The majority of Standard Chartered employees perform
desk-based roles in offices or remotely. As a financial services
firm, our employees are skilled individuals, many with tertiary
qualifications. With the exception of a small number of

interns, Standard Chartered in any of our offices around
the world, does not employ people under the age of 18.
These factors, combined with our workplace policies and
standards described in more detail under the heading
‘How we approach managing modern slavery risk with our
workforce’, lead us to consider the risks of having caused or
contributed to modern slavery in our workforce to be low.
As shown on the graphics under the heading ‘Where we
operate’ on page 3, Standard Chartered has operations

in a number of jurisdictions considered to have a higher
prevalence of, and vulnerability to, modern slavery according
to the Global Estimates of Modern Slavery published in
September 2022.1 We recognise that our operations in
those locations may result in increased exposure to modern
slavery risks. However, we consider that those additional
risks are significantly more likely to occur as a result of our
procurement of goods and services as opposed to within

our direct operations, for the reasons described above.
As a global financial institution, Standard Chartered may
be linked to modern slavery risks through its financial services
and investments, particularly in jurisdictions with a higher
prevalence of, and vulnerability to, modern slavery. Standard
Chartered recognises that modern slavery risks exist in almost
every sector but are heightened in sectors which rely on large
numbers of low skilled, low paid workers and/or migrant

labour, such as mining, construction, agriculture and
manufacturing (including ready-made garments and
textiles), all sectors which are often located within the
markets in which we operate. The Group recognises that
it may potentially be linked to modern slavery risks via
investments and clients in these sectors and jurisdictions
which have increased risks of adverse human rights impacts.
Our frameworks and policies detailed on page 7 are designed

to mitigate these risks.
Modern slavery risks in our supply chain
Our top three supplier categories by spend include
technology (43 per cent), professional services (17 per cent)
and property (14 per cent). The overall breakdown is shown
on the graphic under the heading “How we approach
managing modern slavery risks with suppliers”. Technology
production depends on critical minerals such as Cobalt, which
are linked to child labour and forced labour. There are also

reports of exploitative conditions in factories manufacturing
electronic components, merchandise, and uniforms, as well as
risks deeper within technology supply chains. Similarly, service
sectors such as cleaning, catering and transportation, which
rely on low-skilled labour are susceptible to risks like debt
bondage and forced labour, particularly in regions with
higher vulnerability to modern slavery.
As a procurer of the aforementioned goods and services,

Standard Chartered’s business may be linked to modern
slavery via the business practices of its suppliers. However,
Standard Chartered considers it has a lower risk of causing
or contributing to modern slavery in respect of our direct
suppliers for the reasons explained under the heading ‘How
we approach managing modern slavery risk with suppliers’.
We recognise the need to increase our engagement with our
suppliers to ascertain the risks beyond our first tier, how they

manage the risks of modern slavery and to use our leverage
to facilitate improvements. Where Standard Chartered
operates in jurisdictions with a greater vulnerability to
modern slavery, there is also a greater inherent risk of modern
slavery within our local supply chains in such jurisdictions,
particularly beyond our first tier suppliers.
Modern slavery risk within our
operations and supply chain
1 Global Estimates of Modern Slavery: Forced Labour and Forced Marriage | International Labour Organization (ilo.org).

Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 20258


===== Page 11 =====

How we approach managing
modern slavery risk with clients
Due diligence is a central part of our
approach in assessing and managing risks
associated with the provision of financial
services to our clients. We approach this
due diligence in accordance with our
ESRM and Financial Crime Compliance
(‘FCC’) frameworks.
Environmental and Social Risk Management
We assess all applicable CIB clients against our E&S risk
requirements when providing credit limits, certain advisory

services or debt capital market underwriting. Our relationship
managers carry out Client ESGRAs and our teams that
specialise in ESG risk management review the risk assessments
to identify risks of human rights infringements, including
modern slavery and forced labour practices. We ask clients
to provide evidence of policies and processes to identify and
manage their worker and supply chain human rights risks and
impacts, as well as their processes for managing community

impacts and local grievances. The Client ESGRAs are reviewed
and updated on a periodic basis and form an integral part
of the credit approval process.
For existing clients, we repeat these assessments based
on the initial rating of the client at onboarding as follows:
• High and Medium rated clients: assessment
is reperformed annually.
• Low and Very Low rated clients: assessment is reperformed
on an adhoc basis at the request of our ESGR risk team

or Credit Officers.
We apply the Equator Principles (‘EP’) when financing
in-scope infrastructure and industrial projects or transactions.
The EP include a requirement to carry out a human rights
impact assessment for projects with a higher risk of material
environmental, social and human rights impacts.
Where we identify – or others bring to our attention – modern
slavery-related allegations associated with our clients
or transactions, the ESRM team will seek to understand

what led to the allegation and, where needed, will engage
directly with the client in connection with remediation of
the issue and strengthening of modern slavery safeguards
going forward. If such engagement is not possible or
proves ineffective, then depending on the relevant
circumstances we will seek to exit the client subject
to contractual obligations.
Our relationship managers receive E&S risk management
training to help them engage with clients on these risk

assessments of which more information can be found
on page 12.
Exclusion lists
In WRB, we apply a basic exclusionary screen to all advised
products where there is a heightened potential for E&S risk.
For sustainable investments, we apply an enhanced exclusion
list which has a set of stricter thresholds to reflect higher E&S
standards. Both sets of exclusion lists involve a standard
compliance review against The 10 Principles of the United
Nations Global Compact (‘UNGC’) which includes human

rights and labour standards.
Financial Crime Compliance
Our first line of defence against financial crime is not
providing services to parties that we know, or reasonably
suspect, are involved in organised or other crime, including
modern slavery. Our customer due diligence procedures
require us to understand the nature of a client’s business
activities and source of funds and/or wealth. We also
conduct adverse media screening of our clients to identify

potential connections to criminality, including modern slavery.
Furthermore, we prohibit all activities with individuals and
entities that are known or strongly suspected of involvement
in Money Laundering or Terrorist Financing and their
predicate offences which includes Human Trafficking.
In 2025, we have introduced a new learning module
on ‘FCC Threat-Based Risk Management’ (‘TBRM’) as a
part of the FCC Academy. This module will help Compliance,

Financial Crime & Conduct Risk (‘CFCR’) employees
understand Standard Chartered’s approach to TBRM,
how to stay ahead of emerging threats, and behaviours
that enable us to build the right defences; human trafficking
is covered as one of the top Financial Crime Threats.
The Whole Story
The Group’s flagship financial crime prevention and learning
campaign, ‘The Whole Story’, a 2-week internal campaign to
engage our staff through the use of real-life examples and by

showing them the human cost of financial crime, returned for
its 10th year. The theme for 2025 was ‘#Awareness to Action’,
which emphasised the need for all employees to focus on the
important role they have to play in tackling financial crime
through vigilance and timely escalation. The event included
a session on ‘Unmasking Southeast Asia’s Scam Compounds’
while other sessions centred on ethical decision making and
the highlighted risks associated with current global threats,

fraud and corruption.
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 9


===== Page 12 =====

Suppliers that are identified as presenting
a high-risk of modern slavery are subject
to due diligence.
Supplier Charter
Standard Chartered will not knowingly enter into relationships
with suppliers that cause or contribute to adverse human
rights impacts including human trafficking, slavery, child
labour or forced labour.
The Supplier Charter sets out our expectations that suppliers:
• Uphold and respect the protection of human rights as
outlined in the UN Universal Declaration of Human Rights

and UNGPs on Business and Human Rights and ensure
that they are not involved in any human rights violations.
• Take all reasonable steps to ensure that human trafficking,
the use of all forms of forced or compulsory labour and any
other form of modern slavery are not taking place in their
supply chains or their own operations, recognising the
role of ILO Conventions 29 and 105 on forced labour.
• Recognise and respect the rights of employees to
associate freely and to organise and bargain collectively

in accordance with the local laws of the markets in which
they are employed, recognising the role of ILO Conventions
87 on freedom of association and 98 on the right to
organise and collective bargaining.
• Do not use child labour, support the effective abolition
of child labour and take all reasonable steps to eliminate
such labour from their supply chain, recognising the
role of ILO Conventions 138 on minimum age and 182
on child labour.
Sourcing profile

We spent around $5.08 billion in 2025 with over 10,127 active
suppliers1. We source from the majority of markets in which
we operate. Most of our expenditure is indirect, focused on
goods and services that enable our core provision of financial
services, rather than goods for resale.
Geographical exposure
Depending on geography, supplier categories with
heightened modern slavery risk include cleaning, office
supplies, property, human resources (‘HR’), banking

operations services, marketing, advertising services,
technology hardware, telecoms and networks.
72 per cent of our regional supplier spend in 2025 was in Asia,
of which 37 per cent was related to sourcing in Singapore,
and 14 per cent related to Hong Kong.
Whilst we operate in regions that expose us to heightened
modern slavery risk, our supplier screening process helps us
reduce our exposure within our supply chain.
Group-wide supplier spend %

Top 10 sourcing locations by overall spend %
Technology
Professional Services
Property
Marketing
Human Resources
Banking Operations
Travel
Office Supplies
Others
42%
16%
14%
13%
8%
3%
2%
1%
1%
{4}{2}%
Technology
Singapore
United Kingdom
Hong Kong
India
China
Korea
United States
United Arab Emirates
Taiwan
Malaysia
37%
17%
14%
7%
4%
4%
3%
2%
2%
2%
{3}{7}%
Singapore
How we approach managing
modern slavery risk with suppliers
1 By suppliers we are referring to external third parties (vendors) that have a commercial arrangement with the Group for the provision of goods and/or services.

Examples of suppliers include landlords, management consultants, and IT service providers.
Risk management
We conduct screening of all suppliers for money laundering,
sanctions risk indicators and adverse media coverage.
With the support of external and internal subject matter
experts, we have identified category-country combinations
that present higher risks of modern slavery. Based on the
responses provided by the supplier at onboarding, those
that meet the category-country combinations are

subjected to a modern slavery risk assessment which
informs our decision-making. The risk assessment involves
the completion of a modern slavery questionnaire by a
supplier, which includes details like past incidents, and
internal policies and procedures to manage the risks
associated with modern slavery. Where suppliers cannot
meet our minimum standards, we will only onboard them
in exceptional circumstances (e.g. where a supplier is the
sole supplier in the country). In cases where suppliers do not

have the relevant policies or standards to manage MSHR risk,
we engage with them to enhance their internal processes
in order to comply with our requirements.
We seek to monitor supplier compliance with our
requirements, where contractual arrangements with
suppliers allow, including on-site audits. Those found to
be non-compliant with the human rights/modern slavery
principles in our Supplier Charter may face termination
of contracts and be excluded from potential engagement

opportunities. However, our first preference is to work
with the supplier to remediate the identified issues, and
we terminate supplier relationships only in circumstances
where concerns remain unaddressed.
Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 202510


===== Page 13 =====

Since 2020, the management of modern slavery risk within
our supply chain has been included within the ESGR Risk Type
Framework. We regularly review our controls and frameworks
for identifying, assessing and managing modern slavery and
related risks, such as health and safety, labour practices and
minimum wages.
Internal procedures to ensure adequate
procurement pricing, prompt payment
and good planning
The engagement of Third Parties to provide products

and services is essential for the Group to operate effectively
and efficiently. Our Third-Party Risk Management (‘TPRM’)
Standard provides guidance on on-boarding, management
and exit of third parties to ensure business outcomes and
client needs are met while upholding ethical and sustainable
practices. The TPRM Standard also outlines the evaluation
of viable options to achieve the optimal business and
commercial outcome.
The Group Business Expenditure Standard sets out the

framework for managing expenditures and payment
processes related to third parties. We understand the
importance of prompt payments in supporting financial
stability and avoiding adverse impacts on workers.
Therefore, we monitor payment performance against
KPIs, which are regularly reviewed by senior management.
Enhancing our approach
Building on our actions in previous years, we took
the following steps in 2025 in support of our aim
to assess and manage the risk of modern slavery

and human trafficking within our supply chain:
On-site audits and engagement:
Our supplier audits conducted in 2024 identified gaps
at a supplier’s subcontractor in relation to oversight
of worker welfare and compliance with local laws.
In 2025 we engaged with this supplier to strengthen
its supplier due diligence, and, implemented
corrective actions to resolve these issues.
As discussed in the section titled ‘Key actions taken
to address modern slavery risks in 2025’ on page

5 above, the Group enhanced its modern slavery
audit program, conducting 11 audits across
6 markets (India, Nepal, Bangladesh, Hong Kong,
Pakistan and Zambia) covering suppliers in furniture
manufacturing and installation, cleaning, security,
cash management, and cheque processing.
The focus this year shifted towards small and
medium tier 1 suppliers in high-risk markets, which
had not been covered in previous years.
The 2025 modern slavery audit program identified

potential findings with some suppliers in relation to
working conditions (such as excessive working hours
and gaps in health and safety), gaps in adherence
to statutory entitlements (including sub-minimum
wage payments) and lack of grievance
management mechanisms.
Formal written confirmation of audit findings are
currently in progress with these suppliers. Once
this process is completed, we plan to engage with
the relevant suppliers to agree on remediation

action plans.
How we approach managing modern slavery risk with suppliers
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 11


===== Page 14 =====

We seek to uphold our commitment to
human rights within our own operations,
acknowledging the diverse economic,
cultural, and political perspectives across
our footprint markets. We have policies
and standards that set out how we engage
with employees through hiring, during their
career and upon leaving
Standard Chartered.
Our workforce includes employees employed by Standard
Chartered and non-employed workers (‘NEWs’) who are
contracted through third parties. We seek to address modern

slavery risk in connection with NEWs through risk mitigation
and monitoring measures taken with respect to our supply
chain. Our Staff Screening Standard requires the review of
identity documents which state date of birth to verify that
new hires and NEWs are of legal working age and compliant
with legal right to work rules in the jurisdiction of employment.
Training
In 2025, 5,752 participants joined live training or e-learning
sessions that featured training on MSHR risk.

The Group’s Financial Crime Surveillance Operations team
developed and conducted a ‘Combat Human Trafficking and
Modern Slavery’ session in which employees across both the
Group’s WRB and CIB segments received training on MSHR
risks. The training was presenter-led, and its purpose was to
educate employees on different types of MSHR risk, focusing
on examples such as different sector-specific risks,
prostitution and online sexual exploitation of children and

the role that a bank can play in identifying and tackling these
risks. The completion of this training was voluntary however
almost 800 employees attended the session.
Employees across the Group, specifically within Client
Coverage received ESGR and ESRM training as part of
the Group’s internally developed Sustainability Foundation
Programme. These modules focused on application of
the Group’s Human Rights Position Statement in
banking activities.

Moving forward we plan to combine the content from
these sessions into one e-learning package, which will be
mandatory for select front-line staff who are most able
to influence MSHR risk.
How we approach managing modern
slavery risk with our workforce
We also launched our SCM Sustainability Learning
Journey for our SCM employees towards the end of 2025
that is designed to equip them with the knowledge and skills
to support a more sustainable supply chain. Specific modules

within this training support employees in understanding
modern slavery, why it matters in supply chains and how
we address modern slavery within our supply chain. In 2026
we aim for all relevant roles to undertake this training and
plan to monitor feedback provided to assess its effectiveness.
Fair Pay
Our Fair Pay Charter sets out the principles by which we seek
to deliver fair and competitive remuneration to all employees.
We use those principles to guide reward and performance

decision-making globally, including how we set, structure
and deliver remuneration.
One of the commitments of our Fair Pay Charter is to pay
a living wage in all our markets and to seek to go beyond
compliance with minimum wage requirements. Checks
for equal pay for equal work by market are conducted
throughout our hiring and pay review processes. We are
mindful of changes in economic conditions that may
impact the cost of living and we monitor changing

conditions throughout the year to ensure that our pay
remains appropriate. Where required, we provide monetary
interventions as part of or outside of our annual pay
review cycle.
Further information on our alignment to the Fair Pay Charter
can be found in our 2025 Diversity, Equality and Inclusion
Impact Report.
See our Fair Pay Charter at sc.com/diversityfairpayreport
Grievances
We have a grievance process in place to enable
employees to raise concerns relating to their employment

or other employees which affect them directly and cannot
be resolved through informal mechanisms. This can include
concerns relating to bullying, harassment, sexual harassment,
discrimination, and victimisation, as well as concerns
regarding conditions of employment (for example,
health and safety, new working practices or the working
environment). We also have a disciplinary review process
underpinned by fair accountability principles to address

conduct and behaviour that fails to meet
expected standards.
Employees are proactively made aware of how to raise
concerns (including grievances) through mandatory
trainings such as our Group Code of Conduct & Ethics
training. An internal search functionality and chat function
are also available to employees to find out more information
on how to raise a grievance.
Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 202512


===== Page 15 =====

Enhancing our approach
Industrial Relations Strategy: In 2025 we have continued
the work started in 2024 to build the capability of various
stakeholders in our markets involved in industrial
relations (IR). The focused markets for the capability
sessions were Malaysia, Indonesia, Taiwan, Ghana, Korea
and China with a total of 17 sessions organised for over
350 participants focusing on enhancing IR skills and
People Leader capabilities in areas such as dispute

resolution, the fundamentals of collective bargaining, the
Group’s IR principles and Country Legal Frameworks.
These sessions covered People Leaders leading unionised
population, HR colleagues and select Union leadership in
some markets. This initiative aims to build relationships of
trust, mutual respect and professionalism between the
Group and the employee representative bodies.
Non-Financial Misconduct Framework: In 2025, we
saw a sustained and increased focus on how the Group

addresses incidences of NFM, reinforcing our
commitment to the principles of equality and non-
discrimination as enshrined in Universal Declaration
of Human Rights. This focus has been operationalised
through a series of targeted initiatives designed to
embed these values within the Group’s culture.
Key among these initiatives has been the
implementation of educational programs and tailored
learning interventions aimed at key colleagues at all
levels, to raise awareness and understanding of NFM

issues (i.e., types of behavioural misconduct such
as discrimination, harassment, victimisation, and
other violations of human rights).
A dedicated cross functional oversight group is
responsible for systematically reviewing the reported
incidents, analysing trends, and providing actionable
insights and recommendations (if necessary, escalating)
to senior management and governance bodies
responsible to regulators in this area, thereby ensuring
accountability and continuous improvement in the

Group’s approach to preventing and addressing non-
financial misconduct. By strengthening these integrated
efforts in 2025, the Group reaffirms its commitment to
fostering a safe, inclusive and respectful workplace
aligned with the international human rights standards.
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 13


===== Page 16 =====

To support our objective to fight financial crime and manage E&S risks, we work with several groups to advance coordinated
industry action against modern slavery. Examples of the initiatives and alliances that the Group participates in are included
in the table below.
Organisation Basis for engaging Progress in 2025
Equator
Principles (EP)
The EPs are intended to serve as a common baseline and
a risk management framework – adopted by financial
institutions – for determining, assessing and managing

environmental and social risk in projects.
As a member since 2003, we continued to apply
these principles to seek to ensure the projects we
finance and advise on are developed in a manner
that is socially responsible and reflects sound
environmental management practices.
Further, we continued to use these principles
(including the requirement for human rights
impact assessment for projects with a higher
risk of material environmental, social and human

rights impacts) as a baseline for our own internal
policies, procedures and standards for project
due diligence.
We participated in various working groups
as part of our commitment to EP, including
the implementation working group aimed at
improving understanding of EP and ensuring
consistency in implementation. In October 2025,
we attended the Equator Principles 2025 Annual
Meeting in Istanbul.
The UK’s ‘Stop
The Traffik’
Organisation
and Traffik

Analysis Hub
Stop The Traffik is a charitable organisation committed
to tackling human trafficking and modern slavery. The
Traffik Analysis Hub houses the largest interactive
database of international trafficking information
available to financial institutions, businesses,
governments, NGOs, law Enforcement and Academia.
We continue to be an active partner of Stop the
Traffik, a subscriber to the Traffik Analysis hub
and a consumer of its intelligence which we use

to identify and mitigate human trafficking risk.
Public Private
Partnerships
(PPPs)
We actively and voluntarily collaborate with industry
bodies, regulators and law enforcement agencies,
going further than our statutory responsibilities to fight
financial crime and tackle the criminal exploitation in
our communities, working with public sector partners
in government across our markets.
Across our global footprint we are actively
involved in identifying typologies and

attend annual board meetings to discuss topics
covered under RSPO such as labour rights, ethical
business practices and governance practices.
Thun Group of
Banks (Thun
Group)
The Thun Group is an informal group of banks who work
together with the purpose of understanding how human
rights can best be respected and promoted across the
breadth of different banking activities. Standard
Chartered has been a participant in the Thun
Group since 2013.
We continue to work with the Thun Group to

understand approaches to emerging human
rights issues for financial institutions. We attended
the Thun Group Meeting in October 2025.
Supporting shared action
W e are proud to engage with several leading non-governmental organisations (NGOs),
government bodies, law enforcement, and other civil society stakeholders that help to
strengthen our understanding of the financial flows associated with modern slavery, for
example helping to inform us of any geographic or sector specific characteristics or risks.

Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 202514


===== Page 17 =====

Through the oversight arrangements detailed in the Governance section on page 6, we review the effectiveness of our actions
to assess and manage modern slavery risks. We measure how we perform against our standards in a number of ways, including
the metrics listed in the table below.
Measure 2025 2024 2023
Percentage of employees who have made an affirmed recommitment to the
Code of Conduct and Ethics on an annual basis, and completed mandatory
training or pre-assessment as required 99.7% 99.9% 99.8%

Number of clients and transactions reviewed by our dedicated ESRM team
1,204 clients
reviewed
685 transactions
reviewed
1,449 clients
reviewed
747 transactions
reviewed
1,341 clients
reviewed
708 transactions
reviewed
Number of participants in MSHR risk training sessions1 5,752 3,029 2,609
Number of on-site supplier audits conducted 11 2 –
Number of confirmed MSHR cases identified during the year² 0 – –
Assessing effectiveness of our actions
1 This metric replaced the Number of participants in ESRM training sessions metric reported in 2024 as enhancements were made to the training package available

to all employees during this reporting cycle, specifically targeting MSHR risk. It includes 795 participants in live training sessions and 4,957 participants who
completed e-learning sessions.
2 This metric tracks whether any confirmed MSHR cases were identified within our operations through grievances raised with HR, through the Speaking Up
programme and in our Client ESGRAs. This is the first year of reporting against this metric publicly and looking forward we plan to expand this metric to cover

cases in relation to our suppliers.
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 15


===== Page 18 =====

Scope of Statement
This Statement covers Standard Chartered PLC and its owned or controlled entities (together ‘Standard Chartered’,
‘the Group’, ‘we’, ‘us’, ‘our’).
Reporting entities under the UK Modern Slavery Act 2015:
• Standard Chartered PLC
• Standard Chartered Bank
Reporting entity under the Australian Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth):
• Standard Chartered Bank (ARBN 097 571 778)1
Process of consultation
Various business areas and corporate functions within Standard Chartered were consulted in the drafting of this Statement,

including Chief Sustainability Office, Legal, Risk, HR, Supply Chain Management, and Financial Crime and Compliance. These
groups have global mandates, which includes Standard Chartered PLC and all its subsidiaries (including the reporting entities
listed under ‘Scope of Statement’ above, and the entities which they own and control). Accordingly, these internal stakeholders
provided input into the development of this Statement in relation to Standard Chartered PLC and its wholly owned or controlled

subsidiaries (including the reporting entities listed under ‘Scope of Statement’ above, and the entities which they own and
control).
Approval
This Statement was approved by the Board of Directors of Standard Chartered PLC as the ultimate parent entity of the Group,
on 19 February 2025. It is signed by a member of the Board of Directors – Bill Winters in his role as director and Group Chief
Executive on 19 February 2025, on behalf of the Board of Directors of Standard Chartered PLC and each of the Group’s

subsidiaries listed under ‘Scope of Statement’. The Standard Chartered Bank Court approved this Statement, and delegated
authority to the Group Chief Executive to sign on their behalf.
Bill Winters
Group Chief Executive
Consultation and approval
1 Standard Chartered Bank is the holder of an Australian Financial Services Licence (AFSL No: 246833, ARBN 097 571 778), its registered office address in Australia
is Level 5, 345 George St, Sydney, NSW 2000.

Standard Chartered | Modern Slavery Statement 202516


===== Page 19 =====

UK Mandatory Criteria Section
54(5) Modern Slavery Act 2015
Australian Mandatory Criteria Section 16(1)
Modern Slavery Act 2018 (Cth) Section Page(s)
a The organisation’s structure, its
business and its supply chains
a Identify the reporting entity.
b Describe the reporting entity’s structure,
operations and supply chains.
Who we are and
what we do
2–3
b Policies in relation to slavery
and human trafficking
Our approach 6–7
c Due diligence processes in

relation to slavery and human
trafficking in its business and
supply chains
d Describe the actions taken by the reporting
entity and any entities it owns or controls to
assess and address these risks, including due
diligence and remediation processes.
How we approach
managing
modern slavery
risk with clients
How we approach
managing
modern slavery
risk with suppliers
How we approach
managing
modern slavery
risk with our
workforce
9-13
d The parts of its business and

supply chains where there is
a risk of slavery and human
trafficking taking place, and
the steps it has taken to assess
and manage that risk
c Describe the risks of modern slavery
practices in the operations and supply
chains of the reporting entity and any
entities it owns or controls.
Modern slavery
risk within our
operations and
supply chain
8
e  Effectiveness in ensuring that
slavery and human trafficking
is not taking place in its
business or supply chains,

measured against such
performance indicators as
it considers appropriate
e Describe how the reporting entity assesses
the effectiveness of these actions.
Assessing
effectiveness
of our actions
15
f The training about slavery and
human trafficking available to
its staff
Training 12
f Describe the process of consultation on
the development of the statement with
any entities the reporting entity owns or
controls (a joint statement must also
describe consultation with the entity

covered by the Statement).
Consultation and
approval
16
g  Include any other information that the
reporting entity, or the entity giving the
statement, considers relevant
Supporting shared
action
14
Appendix: Modern Slavery
Act Reporting Criteria
Modern Slavery Statement 2025 | Standard Chartered 17


===== Page 20 =====

We welcome feedback on our Modern Slavery Statement.
Please contact us at
sustainability.feedback@sc.com


===== Page 21 =====

January 2026
Standard Chartered
Code of Conduct and Ethics


===== Page 22 =====

2
Welcome
Welcome to the Code 3
What’s inside the Code 4
How to use the Code 5
Our conduct outcomes 6
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 23 =====

3
Welcome to the Code
Welcome to your Standard Chartered Code of Conduct
and Ethics. This is more than a document, it’s what we
aspire to be—it’s an embodiment of our valued behaviours
and our promise to be here for good.
We were thrilled to see so many of our teams across the
globe working together to create the Code and leaving
their mark. Can you spot your team’s contribution?
I encourage you to review each page, reflect on what it
means for you and your role, and make a habit of revisiting

this document throughout your time at Standard
Chartered.
The information and guidance inside sets the stage for us
to work hand in hand, supporting and empowering one
another to deliver success: for ourselves, for the Bank, for
our clients, and for the communities we serve.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
The Code brings to life our commitment towards building
and maintaining trusted relationships, not only with our

clients and communities, but also within the Bank.
It reminds us that each interaction, big or small, plays a
crucial role in shaping our reputation and impact on the
world.
Our Code of Conduct and Ethics also unites us in our
dedication to diversity, equity, inclusion and sustainability.
It’s a celebration of our differences, as we recognise that our
strength lies in our unique perspectives and experiences.
Together, we cultivate an environment that champions

equality and creates opportunities for all.
Let’s be better together and hold each other accountable
for our progress and strive to do the right thing every step of
the way.
Bill Winters
Group Chief Executive, Standard Chartered


===== Page 24 =====

4
What’s inside the Code
Personal / individual
Welcome
• Welcome to the Code
• Content map
• How to use the Code
• Our conduct outcomes
Our valued behaviours
• Do the right thing
• Never settle
• Better together
Our culture
• Respect
• Equality, equity and inclusion
• Psychological safety
• Raising concerns and Speaking Up
• Ethical leadership
• Wellbeing
• Flexible, hybrid and healthy
workplace
• Healthy risk culture
Professional / regulatory
Our stands

• Accelerating zero
• Lifting participation
• Resetting globalisation
Our clients
• Fair outcomes for clients
• Protect data and assets
• Conflicts of interest
Our market conduct
• Regulatory confidence
• Effective markets
• Anti-money laundering
• Sanctions
• Fraud
• Anti-bribery and corruption
• Modern slavery and anti-human
trafficking
Our business
• Effective governance
• Transparent business model
• Sustainability
• Robust infrastructure, safe

premises and capacity planning
(operational resilience)
Other important information
• Additional codes that may apply
• Questions, contact information,
and quick help guide
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 25 =====

How to use the Code
5
The Code is designed to be interactive and inclusive—a living tool to guide your journey at Standard Chartered.
We've built it with your experience and success in mind, so you'll find tools like links, icons and navigation
features throughout. These include:
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Navigation menu – The navigation menu at the top of
each page helps you move between the sections. You can

click on any of the transparent background buttons to go
to the relevant section, and the section highlighted in
green indicates your current location.
Links – To facilitate your journey through the Code,
we’ve incorporated internal links throughout. You can
easily identify these links by underlined text.
Icons – We've interwoven our conduct outcomes, and
they're indicated by special icons throughout the Code.


===== Page 26 =====

Our conduct outcomes
6
We take actions and make decisions every day
that, together, make up our conduct. Our
conduct impacts our people, our communities
and our Bank.
• To guide us in living conduct of the highest
standards, we have set out the 10 conduct
outcomes we all strive to deliver.
• The conduct outcomes appear throughout
this Code and are indicated by special icons.
We know that understanding and living conduct
of the highest standards is at the heart of being

here for good, and critical to enabling us to build
a successful and sustainable business.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Sustainability
Regulatory
confidence
Transparent
business model
Fair outcomes
for clients
Effective
governance
Robust
infrastructure,
safe premises,
and capacity
planning
Protect data
and assets
Effective
markets
Culture and
behaviours
Ethical
leadership


===== Page 27 =====

7
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Culture and
behaviours
Ethical
leadership
Ethical leadership
• We effectively supervise our people, make
fair, transparent and ethical decisions,
and set the right conduct expectations
• We communicate conduct expectations
clearly, consistently and regularly
Culture and behaviours
• We support and empower our people to
deliver the Bank’s purpose and brand

promise, and to do the right thing for our
clients and for the markets in which we
operate
• We define the behaviours that we expect
our people to display
• We train our people to deliver the
capabilities, judgements and behaviours
required to support the delivery of our
strategy, business model and product
offering
Our conduct outcomes


===== Page 28 =====

8
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Sustainability
Regulatory
confidence
Transparent
business model
Regulatory confidence
• We comply with the spirit and letter of laws
and regulations, build constructive
relationships with our regulators, and
communicate with them openly, timely and
cooperatively
• We partner with the authorities to lead in the
fight against financial crime

Sustainability
• We contribute to sustainable social and
economic development through our business,
operations and communities
Transparent business model
• We ensure that the design and
implementation of our strategy and business
model align to the Bank’s purpose and brand
promise
• We establish a clear and transparent budget
planning process to support our strategy and
business model
Our conduct outcomes


===== Page 29 =====

9
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Effective governance
• We ensure we have the right governance to
identify, manage and monitor risk
• We design and apply a clear set of rules,
procedures and processes
Fair outcomes for clients
• We provide a client value proposition that suits
and is designed to benefit clients across our
global network, in compliance with all relevant
cross-border requirements

• We provide clients with clear information and
ensure that they are kept appropriately
informed before, during and after the point of
sale
• We ensure clients do not face unreasonable
post-sale barriers to change product, switch
provider, submit a claim or make a complaint
Fair outcomes
for clients
Effective
governance
Our conduct outcomes


===== Page 30 =====

10
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Effective markets
• We operate our market activities with honesty,
transparency and integrity
• We identify, manage and appropriately
escalate conflicts of interest to ensure our
judgement is not, or cannot be perceived as,
compromised
Robust infrastructure, safe premises and capacity
planning
• We assess and provide the resources,
technology, infrastructure and premises

needed to support the safe delivery of our
strategy, business model and product offering
Protect data and assets
• We create accurate records, data, and reports
and ensure they are protected, stored and
disposed of appropriately
• We do not release or share confidential
information, either externally or internally,
unless authorised to do so
• We use infrastructure, Group and client assets,
money, and resources (including data and
intellectual property) as intended

Robust
infrastructure,
safe premises,
and capacity
planning
Effective
markets
Protect data
and assets
Our conduct outcomes


===== Page 31 =====

Our valued behaviours
We are building a culture of ambition, action and
accountability. Through this culture, we deliver our
purpose: to drive commerce and prosperity through
our unique diversity.
To do this, we constantly live our valued behaviours,
which support our actions, decisions and interactions
with colleagues, clients and the markets we serve. Our
valued behaviours are:
• Do the right thing
• Never settle
• Better together
Living our valued behaviours day-to-day enables us to

deliver on our purpose and goals, while creating a
safe, healthy, high-performing and inclusive workplace
where colleagues can be themselves, share diverse
points of view, and nurture their wellbeing. Our valued
behaviours enable us to live our purpose and fulfil our
promise to be here for good.
Do the right thing 12
• Live with integrity 12
• Think client 13
• Be brave, be the change 13
Never settle 14
• Continuously improve and innovate 14
• Learn from successes and failures 15

• Simplify 15
Better together 16
• See more in others 16
• Ask ‘How can I help?’ 17
• Build for the long-term 17
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
11


===== Page 32 =====

Do the right thing
By doing the right thing, we always reinforce the trust of
our clients, colleagues, regulators, shareholders and
communities. This is at the heart of our brand promise to
be here for good.
12
Live with integrity
We demonstrate the highest standards of integrity and
ethical behaviour in everything we do.
We commit to making ethical choices, and the right
decision at the right time.
We live what we say—with clients, colleagues,
communities, investors, regulators and the market.

We are accountable by complying with laws, regulations,
policies, this Code, the best market standards, and the
practices that we follow.
Social media ethics are a key part of doing
the right thing.
Our online behaviour is a reflection of who
we are and what we represent. Even outside
of work, our social media activity reflects
ourselves and the Bank, and impacts the
trust and credibility we have with each other,
our clients, and the communities we serve.

Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 33 =====

13
Think client
We believe that clients are at the heart of our
business, and they trust us to do the right thing.
We do this by proactively identifying their needs,
market trends, regulatory expectations, and
opportunities for improvement so we can effectively
meet our clients’ objectives.
We support clients in making ethical decisions.
Be brave, be the change
We are brave and role model the change we want to
see in the Bank.
We aim to grow, question, innovate, and advocate for

compelling suggestions and ideas.
We prioritise timely actions and bold decisions.
We have the courage to seek help and to raise
concerns, including by Speaking Up, if we or someone
around us thinks that something is wrong.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Do the right thing


===== Page 34 =====

14
Never settle
The world around us is changing fast. We are ambitious.
We never settle in our constant pursuit of excellence and
market-leading innovation.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Continuously improve and innovate
We feel safe in challenging the status quo and always seek
better ways of doing things.
We encourage our colleagues to share their unique
qualities, creativity, and ideas for where we can be better

together.
We believe all improvements—big and small—add up over
time.
We embrace continuous education because expanding
and upgrading our professional skills helps us realise our full
potential.


===== Page 35 =====

15
Learn from successes and failures
We embrace success and failure, because our success
relies on pushing boundaries, sharing feedback,
learning from experience, and having a willingness to
experiment.
Simplify
We focus on being easy to work for and with. We are
committed to identifying and challenging
unnecessary and overly complex processes, and to
make it easier for us and our clients to get things done.
We design our processes so that they are appropriate

to the task, risk, and regulation. We apply them with
judgement and common sense.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 36 =====

16
Better together
In being better together, we value collaboration and
create respectful and trusted relationships. We see
more in others, ask “How can I help?”, and build for
the long term.
See more in others
We know good things happen when we empower
each other with tasks that support our capability,
attitude, and appetite to grow. In doing so, we
empower our people to explore their potential and
accomplish more for themselves, our Bank, and our

communities.
The end result? We all feel more supported and
enthusiastic about what we do and the positive
impact we can collectively make.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 37 =====

17
Ask “How can I help?”
We believe that great teamwork always starts with us.
Asking “How can I help?” means going above and
beyond everyday responsibilities. It reflects our active
commitment to be better together.
We offer our help to share our unique capabilities for
the benefit of our colleagues, clients, communities,
and the Bank.
Build for the long term
We prioritise long-term objectives and relationships
over short-term benefits.
We build confidence in clients, shareholders,

stakeholders, and the market by creating long-
standing relationships.
We demonstrate our care for communities and
sustainable outcomes by being forward-thinking.
We work collaboratively with colleagues to anticipate
the far-reaching effects of our decisions and manage
risks robustly.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 38 =====

18
Our culture and
behaviours
We aspire to embed a culture of ambition, action, and
accountability that puts our people, clients, and
communities at the heart of everything we do. As a
result, we are better together.
Ambition: We always aim high and to be the best.
Action: We make bold decisions and move quickly to
action.
Accountability: We take personal ownership of
outcomes and always do the right thing.
Respect 19
Equality, equity and inclusion 20

Psychological safety 22
Raising concerns and speaking up 23
Ethical leadership 26
Wellbeing 28
Flexible, hybrid, and healthy
workplace 30
Healthy risk culture 31
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 39 =====

19
Respect
We believe that respect at work is essential. Respect should be at the
heart of all our decisions, actions, and communication in the workplace
and beyond.
We are here for good and believe that when we treat others with dignity
and respect and we do the right thing, everyone benefits.
We believe that all our people are entitled to a safe, positive, and
enjoyable physical and virtual working environment where everyone
feels able to bring their best selves and fully participate, especially

colleagues who have been historically underrepresented and those who
are within one or more of the protected categories outlined in our Group
Diversity and Inclusion Standard.
We understand that the principles in our Group Diversity and Inclusion
Standard apply to all of our people, regardless of location or jurisdiction,
and that anyone who does not follow these principles will be subject to
disciplinary action.
We are committed to respect in the workplace, and expect all our

people in every market to contribute towards an inclusive environment
where individuality and different skills, capabilities, and lived experiences
are appreciated and valued. This is essential to creating collaborative
teams across our diverse footprint.
We do not support behaviours or
attitudes that create a negative
working environment, including
discrimination, bullying, harassment
(including sexual harassment), and
victimisation.
If you experience or witness anything

inappropriate, we encourage you to
speak to your People Leader or
contact the Employee Relations team.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 40 =====

20
Equality, equity and inclusion
We are committed to maintaining a diverse and
inclusive workplace, where everyone is entitled to be
treated fairly.
We believe that equality, equity and inclusion are key
to our commercial success, realising our purpose, and
delivering on our promise to be here for good.
We foster an inclusive culture where individuality and
diverse skills, capabilities, and experiences are
understood, respected, and valued. In doing so, we

create an environment that supports innovation. This
allows us to be the best place to work, as well as the
best place to bank.
We are committed to equality of opportunity, as well
as equity and fairness. We recognise that our
colleagues should be provided with the tailored tools
and resources they need to succeed.
We aim to deliver products and services that meet the
needs of our diverse clients and communities.
We encourage our vendors and suppliers to use this

Code as an ethical and legal compass that guides
their values and business.
We support a diverse and responsible supply chain
and support investment in our communities.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 41 =====

21
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
What is equity?
This means recognising that everyone doesn’t begin in the same place in society, and
that everyone should be provided with what they need to succeed. We offer our people
the same opportunities while taking into account their individual needs for specific
support or resources and their different circumstances to reach an equal outcome.

We strive to provide equality of opportunity for all, protect the dignity of colleagues,
and promote respect at work. Attitudes and behaviours that detract from our positive
working environment are harmful to everyone, and will not be tolerated.
If you see or experience something you think is unacceptable, you can speak to your
People Leader, contact the Employee Relations team in HR, or Speak Up.
What is equality?
This means offering everyone the same opportunities, regardless of differences

(including age, disability, gender reassignment, marriage and civil partnership,
pregnancy and maternity, ethnic origin, religion or belief, sex and sexual orientation,
and/or other protected categories).
What is inclusion?
Inclusion is creating an environment where everyone with the capability to excel can do
so. It is about creating a work environment where each person feels safe, respected and
valued for their distinct skills, capabilities and individual experiences, and has the

opportunity to participate fully and reach their full potential.


===== Page 42 =====

22
Psychological safety
A psychologically safe environment is essential to our growth and
success.
We expect everyone to strive to do their best for themselves, the
Bank, their team, our clients, and the communities we serve. When
things don’t go to plan, we expect each other to be open about
where things haven’t worked and seek to learn from them. For this
to happen, the Bank must be a place where people never settle by
taking measured risks, expressing ideas and concerns, and calling

attention to things which don’t seem right, without fear of
punishment or retaliation.
We are committed to creating an environment of psychological
safety—built on trust, inclusion, respect, and an understanding that
people can speak openly about who they are, what they think, and
how they feel. We encourage our people to be comfortable with
giving and receiving candid feedback.
We know that when honest mistakes are made, we need to be
clear, transparent and fair about accountability. Our focus should

be on learning and improvement. We’re solutions-orientated and
see failures as opportunities to learn.
A psychologically safe environment is one
where we feel comfortable and valued when
voicing views, ideas, and concerns, without
fear of punishment or mistreatment.
The freedom and security to share ideas,
experiment, and give and receive feedback is
important for our collaboration, innovation,
and promise to be better together.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 43 =====

23
Raising concerns and
Speaking Up
Raising concerns and Speaking Up is brave, enables us
to be better together, and is a living example of doing
the right thing.
We recognise that there may be times when we see or
experience something in the workplace that doesn’t
feel right. If this happens, what should we do?
We are all encouraged to do the right thing and raise
our concerns so that the Bank can review and address
the underlying issues. In doing so, we contribute to our

strong ethical culture and making the Bank a better
place to work.
How to raise a concern
1. By contacting Employee Relations in HR for advice,
or to raise a Grievance.
2. Through the Speaking Up channels.
3. By raising concerns to the relevant business or
function.
We also recognise the value of sharing concerns and
feedback with team members, peers, and more senior
colleagues in the appropriate business function, both
informally and on-the-spot. Providing constructive

feedback in a timely way can stop small issues from
becoming big ones and prevent conflict from arising
later down the line.
When to speak to HR or raise a Grievance
We should speak to Employee Relations in HR for
advice or to raise a Grievance when we have an
employment-related concern that impacts us
personally (for example, a concern about bullying,
harassment, discrimination, victimisation, work
relations, or our working environment).
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 44 =====

24
When to Speak Up
We encourage you to raise a concern via the Speaking Up
channels when you believe someone has, might have, or is
about to:
• Breach any of our policies, standards, or processes
• Breach laws or regulatory requirements
• Conceal or deliberately fail to report misconduct or
breaches
• Put the health and safety of a person in danger
• Act in a way that may damage our reputation or financial
wellbeing
We don’t need to be certain that any of these things have

happened before raising a concern. However, any concerns
that are fabricated will be treated as a serious breach of
this Code.
Who can Speak Up
We empower all of our people to Speak Up, as well as
clients and third parties.
Are we protected if we raise a Speaking Up
disclosure or grievance?
We treat concerns seriously and handle them
in confidence. Your identity will only ever be
shared on a ‘need to know’ basis. You can
also choose to raise your concern

anonymously (although it can be harder for
us to investigate anonymous complaints).
We do not tolerate victimisation for raising
concerns (or for being involved in a review).
Any retaliation will be dealt with as a
disciplinary matter. We also have a robust
victimisation prevention framework in place.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 45 =====

25
How can we Speak Up?
We encourage formal Speaking Up through one of the
Group Speaking Up channels:
• Sending an email to speaking.up@sc.com
• Leaving a written message on the Group online portal
administered by an independent external service provider
• Speaking to a call handler on the Hotline administered by
an independent external service provider
• Speaking to someone in (or outside of) your line
management chain who may or may not be your usual

People Leader
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
Speaking Up


===== Page 46 =====

26
Ethical leadership
The leadership we display drives our culture and
our culture drives our conduct.
We all have a responsibility to lead. Our clients and
communities rely on us to make the right choices. In
doing so, we play our part in embodying the valued
behaviours and delivering on our purpose.
We show leadership in the way that we treat
ourselves, our colleagues, our clients, our
communities, and our partners.
We know that making the right choices about how

we choose to lead has the ability to differentiate
us. It builds the culture we need to drive the right
outcomes. Good leadership is contagious and
empowers our individual and collective success.
Good leadership defines who we are and where we
are going.
We encourage everyone to live and role model the
actions in our Leadership Agreement.
This is the foundation for leadership in our organisation.
The Leadership Agreement helps us all to set clear

expectations on what behaviours are acceptable, as
well as those that are not.
It’s more than words—it is a two-way agreement and
understanding with everyone, and it represents the
behaviours that are independently proven to drive high
performance.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 47 =====

27
We choose to lead by example and champion strong conduct by:
• Committing to learning every day to improve how we lead
• Continuously striving to make the Bank a significantly better
place, and asking “How can I help?” to make it easier to get
things done
• Listening before we speak, seeking out and valuing the diverse
thoughts, viewpoints, and experiences of others
• Coaching and helping others to grow and make the most of
their potential
• Building trust by asking for feedback, and really listening

• Making it safe for team members to set ambitious goals, to be
brave, and be the change
• Challenging bias or prejudice and encouraging colleagues to
bring their whole selves to work
• Taking timely action, making bold decisions, engaging in
effective risk management, and seeking solutions that deliver for
our clients
• Supporting innovation, experimenting, and learning from
failures as part of developing growth mindsets
Discover more examples in our Leadership Agreement.

Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 48 =====

28
Wellbeing
We are committed to doing the right thing by
supporting our colleagues through four
interlinked pillars of mental, physical, social and
financial wellbeing.
We acknowledge that positive wellbeing is
crucial in terms of ensuring employee
engagement. It drives greater productivity,
commitment and prosperity at individual, team
and organisational levels.
We have a key role to play in supporting and
improving the mental and physical health of our

people.
We believe in creating sustainable working
practices and embedding a positive workplace
culture. This enables our people to thrive at work
and perform at a high level in the medium and
long term, not just the short term.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 49 =====

29
Mental wellbeing
We support the right to a healthy mind.
This means cultivating an environment
where people are comfortable to talk
about their mental health and to seek
help when necessary.
Financial wellbeing
We’re committed to a culture of
sustainable high performance where
everyone can be at their best and feel
their contributions are fairly rewarded
and free from unjust bias.
We aim to foster a healthy attitude to
money and provide a range of support

that can empower colleagues,
customers and communities to prosper.
Physical wellbeing
We strive to provide workspaces and
working environments that promote
positive wellbeing and healthy lifestyle
choices.
Social wellbeing
We value and actively support the
positive impact on wellbeing that comes
from interactions with colleagues,
families, friends, communities, clients
and the wider world.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 50 =====

30
Flexible, hybrid and
healthy workplace
We know that hybrid and flexible working practices help us
to recruit and retain the best talent, as well as support our
colleagues’ health, wellbeing, family needs, and personal
commitments. We encourage our people (where the nature
of their role permits) to embrace the opportunities of both
remote working and face-to-face collaboration, so we can
engage in innovative and dynamic conversations and learn
from each other as we progress towards our purpose.

We are committed to balancing the needs of our business
with those of our colleagues when it comes to our working
practices. This enables us to do the right thing by our clients,
teams, individual colleagues, and the communities we
serve.
We strive to create a healthy workplace with sustainable
working practices. This means seeking to allocate work and
structuring roles so that colleagues can perform and
succeed sustainably in a way that supports their wellbeing

and commercial goals.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 51 =====

31
Healthy risk culture
We manage risk responsibly and work together to
prevent bad outcomes. We talk openly about what
could go wrong and invite others to challenge our
views. We plan to succeed, and we make sure we’re
prepared for every eventuality.
We all play an important role in ensuring a healthy
risk culture. Why is this important? A healthy risk
culture helps us in creating a safe working
environment, strengthening trust, and providing
positive outcomes for clients, shareholders and

markets.
We can apply a growth mindset when we support a
healthy risk culture by acting responsibly and within
our authority.
This means we embrace challenge as a way to grow.
In doing so, we trust in our individual and collective
creativity, resilience, curiosity and ability.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 52 =====

32
As individuals
We are risk aware. We consider the broader
consequences of our decisions and actions.
We talk openly about our failures, so that we can
learn and be better together.
We are curious about our environment. We seek
out new knowledge and perspectives to challenge
and develop our understanding of the status quo.
If things don’t go to plan, we take swift and
decisive action to protect the Bank, our clients,
and our communities from harm.

As a group
We are informed. We train our colleagues to
proactively anticipate, assess, and manage risk.
We are transparent. We foster a psychologically
safe environment so that we can respectfully
challenge ideas and norms, regardless of seniority.
We are adaptable. We know that the risks we
face today are different from the risks we will face
tomorrow. We make sure that our infrastructure
and our people are prepared for whatever the
future might bring.

Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 53 =====

33
33
Our stands
Our purpose is to drive commerce and prosperity
through our unique diversity. We believe we must lean
into this moment and accelerate change, innovation,
and our own transformation using creativity, capital
investments, financial flows, and collaboration.
To achieve this purpose, we follow three important
stands:
• Accelerating zero
• Lifting participation
• Resetting globalisation
These stands are felt strongly in our footprint. The

markets we call home are also the most exciting
places in the world to drive innovation, catalyse social
transformation, and build sustainable economies.
By taking a stand, we challenge ourselves to use our
unique abilities of working across boundaries to
connect capital, people, ideas and best practices.
Accelerating zero
Lifting participation
Resetting globalisation
Accelerating zero 34
Lifting participation 35
Resetting globalisation 36
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 54 =====

34
Accelerating zero
The world must reach net zero carbon emissions by
2050 to stave off the worst effects of climate change.
The onus is on governments, corporations and
individuals to do their part.
We believe that climate change is one of the greatest
challenges facing the world today and that its impact
will hit hardest in the communities and markets where
we operate, namely Asia, the Middle East and Africa.
The need for a just transition to an inclusive, net zero

economy brings with it a huge opportunity for
innovation and growth for our clients and our Bank.
Climate change is the greatest challenge facing
the world today. We’re committed to reaching
net zero carbon emissions in our own operations
by 2025, and in our financing activity by 2050.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 55 =====

35
Lifting participation
Inequality, along with gaps in economic inclusion, means that
many young people, women and small businesses struggle to
gain access to the financial system to save for their futures
and grow their businesses. We want to democratise wealth
management and make it easily accessible at low cost.
We strive to expand the reach and
scale of financial services—
expanding accessible banking and
connecting clients to opportunities
that promote access to finance

and economic inclusion.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 56 =====

36
Resetting globalisation
Globalisation has lifted millions out of poverty, but left
too many behind. We advocate a new model of
globalisation based on transparency to build trust,
and promote dialogue and innovation.
We can connect the capital, expertise and ideas
needed to drive new standards and create innovative
solutions for sustainable growth.
We support companies to
improve working and
environmental standards and to
give everyone the chance to

participate in the world
economy, so that growth
becomes fairer and more
balanced.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 57 =====

37
Our clients
Fair outcomes for clients
Protect data and assets
Information and cyber security
Data privacy
Data ethics
Conflicts of interest
Outside business activities
Personal account dealing
Fair outcomes for clients 38
Protect data and assets 40
• Information and cyber security 40
• Data privacy 41
• Data ethics 42
Conflicts of interest 43
• Outside business activities 44
• Personal account dealing 44
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 58 =====

38
Fair outcomes for clients
We believe in fair outcomes for clients. This is a continuous
process that involves us all, and includes elements like
product design, consideration of the client journey, and
more. Together, we contribute by:
• Ensuring that our products and services are tailored to
meet the unique needs and risk appetite of our clients,
and that our advertising, marketing and communication
is always clear, accurate and factually correct

• Putting clients first by offering fair value, enabling
informed decisions, promoting responsibility, and
protecting them from exploitation
• Constantly learning from their experience, and
embedding a culture of delivering fair outcomes
throughout their relationship with us
We are creative and strive
to find innovative ways to
help our clients achieve
their financial goals. We are
the driving force behind our
Bank’s success in ensuring
fair outcomes. We upskill,

stay vigilant and remain
close to our clients so that
we can be better together.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 59 =====

39
We recognise that ensuring fair outcomes for clients builds long -term
relationships, grows business and enhances our reputation. We
ensure fair outcomes by:
• Taking client complaints seriously, handling them promptly and
fairly, and continuously learning from our experiences
• Following any relevant business procedures
• Using oversight from the relevant committee to look out for any
risks and concerns
• Providing training, tools and support to client-facing employees

• Being creative and innovative in finding ways to help our clients
Responsible innovation
We innovate responsibly by:
• Challenging the status quo while also thinking about the
consequences our new products will have
• Processing, recording and sharing data ethically
• Designing, developing and deploying AI fairly
• Being proactive in seeking and including diverse
perspectives
Together, we can strive to ensure we are doing the right
thing when building the future.

Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 60 =====

40
Protect data
and assets
We understand that information is the
lifeblood of commerce. By safeguarding it,
we are creating a more fair and trustworthy
business environment.
Information and cyber security
We are entrusted by our clients, communities and stakeholders to
keep their information safe and secure. While technology is key,
we recognise that our people are our greatest defence. That’s why
each and every one of us has a significant role to play in

protecting the information we have.
We have a shared responsibility to protect against cyber threats
based on how we identify, assess, mitigate and manage
information and risks.
We know the world, our business and technology continue to
evolve. To prepare for the new challenges that will come our way
as a result, we must be:
• Curious: if something doesn’t feel right, it probably isn’t
• Up-to-date on new threats by engaging in continuous learning

• Aware of our responsibilities at work (especially when some
roles have specific responsibilities)
• Proactive in taking steps to keep our personal data and devices
safe and
• Continuously monitor and respond to information security
threats
• In doing so, we build a healthy risk culture and adopt habits that
keep us informed, prepared and well-equipped to succeed.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 61 =====

41
Data privacy
We understand the value of data and information. Data belongs to
our people, clients and partners who have entrusted us with it, and our
use of it can impact their day-to-day lives. We’re committed to treating
the data we handle with care, and to use this power responsibly and
respectfully, and for fair, transparent and intended purposes.
We recognise that privacy is also important, and that we are expected
to protect our clients’ data with the same level of care as we protect

their money and assets. We do the right thing by being responsible
and taking measures to safeguard and guide our use of personal data.
We know that our clients, communities and regulators require and rely
on us to protect and secure the data we hold. To support this, we
continually invest and engage in training on our policies, guidance,
processes and infrastructure.
We have regular privacy awareness communications and information
security awareness training to ensure all colleagues understand their

role in upholding the privacy of every client we serve.
We must protect the personal data and privacy of our employees,
clients and partners by:
• Only using personal data where we have a lawful or legitimate
reason to do so
• Being transparent in our use of personal data
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
and assets


===== Page 62 =====

42
Data ethics
We strive to uphold high ethical standards when it
comes to our use of data. We understand that data can
be a powerful tool that supports good outcomes for
clients and communities, and that it empowers
responsible innovation.
We are mindful that as the amount of data we collect,
hold and use grows, we need to increasingly consider
the potential for both intended and unintended
outcomes. We must use data responsibly, especially
when used in systems employing artificial intelligence

techniques.
We also need to reduce the likelihood of any misuse of
data, which could create an imbalance in the benefits
of technology, behaviours and society, as well as an
erosion of trust or negative environmental impacts. To
do this, we should:
• Mitigate unintended consequences within our control
• Influence decision makers to make responsible
choices
Data ethics evaluates data practices that
have the potential to adversely impact
people and society in data collection,

sharing and use.
We strive to use data in ways that
minimise harm. Our data ethics principles
are accountability, respect, fairness,
transparency and shared value.
Data ethics is more than just setting and
following regulations or providing a
technical fix—it’s about challenging the
status quo and including our diverse
perspectives.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
and assets


===== Page 63 =====

43
Conflicts of interest
Conflicts of interest arise when entities or people have
a difference between personal and professional
interests, duties, or responsibilities. Our role and goal is
more than avoiding negative impacts—it’s about
managing conflicts effectively and building trust
along the way.
We recognise that conflicts of interest are a reality in
the financial industry and can sometimes be really
tricky. That’s why we have policies and training in

place to identify and manage conflicts. It’s also why
we collaborate to ensure that we act transparently
and ethically, and in our clients’ best interests.
We value transparency and honesty. Together with
subject matter expertise and the use of smart
technology, we help to prevent conflicts of interest
from becoming an issue.
Conflicts might arise from personal or financial
relationships, as well as in situations related to gifts
and entertainment.

If you think you notice or experience conflicts of
interest, whether perceived or otherwise, that
misalign with our ethics, our valued behaviours, or
your ability to perform your role, seek guidance
from your line manager and the Control Room at
controlroom@sc.com.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 64 =====

44
Outside business activities
We all have interests and activities outside
the Bank. This may sometimes trigger
conflicts of personal or financial relationships,
as well as questions about the
appropriateness of gifts and entertainment.
If you are involved (or would like to be
involved) in any outside business activities
that may, perceived or otherwise, not align
with our ethics, valued behaviours, or your
ability to perform your role, seek guidance

from your line manager and the Control Room
at controlroom@sc.com.
Personal account dealing
We like to keep things transparent and honest,
especially when it comes to personal account
dealing. Our guidelines are designed to manage
and mitigate the misuse of insider information
that could lead to market abuse or insider
trading.
We shouldn’t deal in any financial instruments if
there is an actual or potential conflict of interests
involving the Bank or its clients.

We should prioritise the interest of the Bank and
our clients ahead of our personal trading
interests.
We commit to preclearing and disclosing all
dealing activity to the Control Room as set out
within the Personal Account Dealing Standard by
contacting controlroom@sc.com.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 65 =====

45
Our market conduct
We recognise that financial markets are the
backbone of the global economy, and that the
success of our clients depends on the integrity of
these markets.
Regulatory confidence
Effective markets
Anti-money laundering
Sanctions
Fraud
Anti-bribery and corruption
Modern slavery and anti-human trafficking
Regulatory confidence 46
Effective markets 47
Anti-money laundering 48
Sanctions 49
Fraud 50
Anti-bribery and corruption 51
Modern slavery and anti-human trafficking 53

Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 66 =====

46
Regulatory confidence
We aim to lead the way in ethical banking and regulatory
compliance.
We are dedicated to maintaining the highest standards of
regulatory compliance and fostering positive relationships
with our regulators. Our ultimate goal is to ensure that
regulators have full confidence in our compliance.
We achieve this by following the spirit and letter of the law,
communicating with transparency, and working
cooperatively. The end result: we establish trust and

confidence that supports our ongoing success.
Regulatory confidence serves as a
beacon for trust. It empowers us to
create an innovative environment where
our business thrives, and our people,
communities, and clients feel protected,
secure and enabled to succeed.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 67 =====

47
Effective markets
We all contribute to creating effective markets: an
environment where our clients can confidently engage in
transactions in a predictable, secure and fair manner. Doing
so is core to the ongoing success of our clients, our
communities and our Bank.
We support effective markets by committing to clear and
consistently applied standards of:
• Market practice and conduct
• Transparency
• Open access
• Ethical behaviour
• Healthy competition

• Integrity
We ensure our markets remain vibrant and efficient by
recognising that we need a robust trading and post-trade
infrastructure. This is supported by our commitments to be
here for good and to do the right thing. If we don’t, markets
can become distorted, inefficient and create negative
outcomes.
We hold ourselves accountable for our actions
and their impact on the markets we serve. We
do not support:
• Poor market conduct
• Negligent market activity

• Activity that undermines the integrity of the
financial system
• Activity that puts our reputation at risk
• Collusion, misuse of confidential or inside
information and creating false or misleading
market impressions
If you see any behaviour that goes against our
support of maintaining effective markets,
Speak Up.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 68 =====

Anti-money laundering
We have a duty to protect the communities we serve from the
consequences of money laundering. That’s why we’re committed to
staying vigilant, staying alert and doing the right thing.
We all have a responsibility to take the fight against financial
crime seriously. Money laundering and terrorist financing have
severe consequences for our society and the global economy.
Financial crime allows drug and human trafficking to take place,

and facilitates other criminal acts like the smuggling and
counterfeiting of goods, illegal gambling, financing terrorist
activity, and tax evasion.
We commit to maintaining the integrity of the financial system,
and to using the tools and training available. We recognise that
this is a cross-border and cross-function effort that directly
supports our promise to be here for good.
We recognise that in doing so, we can create a safer and more
stable financial system, maintain trust and confidence in our Bank,

and play a role in contributing towards a better society—in short,
we can show the world what it means to be better together.
Winning the fight against financial
crime helps us, our colleagues, our
clients and our communities.
There are more than just regulatory
reasons for doing so—there’s a
positive human impact on us and our
societies, too.
If you have any concerns about anti-
money laundering, or suspect a
possible violation, or to get advice

about these topics, refer to Ask
Compliance.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
48


===== Page 69 =====

49
Sanctions
We commit to following international sanctions. It’s
not just about avoiding penalties or maintaining a
good reputation, it’s about doing the right thing.
We refuse to engage in any activities that could
potentially violate international sanctions. Instead,
we work with our clients to help them comply with the
law and understand the risks associated with certain
actions. We believe that following these regulations is
crucial in preventing crimes and protecting the

communities we serve.
We know that navigating these regulations can be
tricky, so we encourage you to ask questions and seek
clarification to ensure we stay within the bounds of
the law.
We all hold the key to creating a safer
world by reporting any suspicious activity
that may raise sanctions concerns.
To report a concern, speak to Compliance,
Financial Crime & Conduct Risk (“CFCR”) or
Speak Up.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 70 =====

Fraud
By preventing and detecting fraud, we can earn client
trust, improve culture and support the legal and
regulatory frameworks that protect our markets.
We’re confident that by working together, we can
fight fraud and safeguard our colleagues, clients and
our Bank.
We recognise that fraudsters are persistent, and that
awareness, education and continued vigilance will
defend against them. We’ve implemented layered
controls to combat fraud, including:

• Process level controls, including monitoring and
testing
• Analytic and surveillance systems
• Continuous improvement of control landscapes
based on threats
• Employee training
• Client awareness
We can’t fight fraud alone—doing so is a collective
effort. If you spot anything suspicious, Speak Up. While
our primary goal is to prevent fraud from happening in
the first place, we can stay ahead of fraudsters by
embracing the never settle mindset to develop best

practices, innovative technologies, and staying alert.
We stand against fraud.
Fighting fraud is about more than preventing losses;
it’s about maintaining a good reputation, protecting
our clients and resources, driving integrity as a core
part of our organisation, encouraging good culture
and behaviours, and doing the right thing.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
50


===== Page 71 =====

Anti-bribery
and corruption
Fighting against bribery and corruption supports
our reputation, promotes a culture of ethics, and
helps us avoid legal, financial, and reputational
consequences.
We believe that bribery and corrupt activities are
destructive to our societies and economies.
Corruption and bribes aren’t just about cash:
offering anything of value as a means of influence
can be considered a bribe.
We put in place appropriate procedures to

prevent, detect, investigate and report any
suspicious activities. In doing so, we:
• Actively put our clients, shareholders and
communities first
• Take responsibility for the actions of all of our
associated people, including third parties and
intermediaries acting on our behalf
• Make sure to assess and control any risk of
bribery and corruption
We stand against bribery and corruption.
Each and every one of us can make a positive,
impactful difference by saying no to financial

crimes and by reporting suspicious activity.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients
o
oOur market conduct Our business Other info
51


===== Page 72 =====

52
We value transparency as a vital part of our
mission to fight against bribery and corruption
and to conduct business ethically, and in a fair
and transparent way. We do this by:
• Supporting our reputation
• Promoting a culture of ethics
• Identifying and preventing legal, financial
and reputational consequences to our Bank,
our clients, our colleagues, and the
communities we serve
Our Compliance team is always available to
support and protect you if you have any

questions about bribery and corruption.
For advice on various Group and Country CFCR
topics refer to Ask Compliance.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 73 =====

53
Modern slavery and anti-human trafficking
Fighting modern slavery and human trafficking (“MSHT”)
is more than just a legal obligation; it’s a moral
imperative that aligns with our values and commitments,
and allows us to do the right thing.
We strive to respect human rights across our business.
We recognise that the global nature of our work may
expose us to the risk of MSHT in our operations, supply
chain and client relationships, and we are committed to

identifying and mitigating these risks.
We’ve adopted an approach guided by policies and
frameworks which are informed by the International Bill
of Human Rights and the International Labour
Organisation Conventions.
We’ve implemented key measures to mitigate the risk of
MSHT across our business, operations and supply chain,
including:
• Requiring Corporate & Investment Banking (“CIB”)
clients to provide evidence of their policies and
processes to manage human rights risks in their

operations or supply chains
• Enhancing due diligence when onboarding suppliers
with heightened Modern Slavery risk
• Conducting routine adverse media screening of
suppliers for any potential MSHT risk
• Adhering to our Supplier Charter principles that state
zero tolerance on the use of MSHT in our supply chain
• Working with external organisations to advance
coordinated industry action against MSHT
We encourage our people and members of the public to

Speak Up if something doesn’t feel right.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 74 =====

54
Our business
Effective governance
Transparent business model
Sustainability
Robust infrastructure, safe premises and capacity planning (operational resilience)
Robust infrastructure, safe premises and capacity planning (operational resilience)
Effective governance 55
Transparent business model 56
Sustainability 57
• Business 57
• Operations 57
• Communities 57
Robust infrastructure, safe premises and
capacity planning (operational resilience) 58

Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 75 =====

55
Effective governance
We view effective governance as doing the right thing, at the right time,
by the right people.
We understand the importance of effective governance. We are a
multinational organisation with an ambitious strategy, high aspirations,
and a truly global impact. So, it’s critical that our business operates
according to our structure, processes, rules, roles and responsibilities in an
efficient way. This supports our strategy while also swiftly addressing

challenges and achieving success.
We each make a contribution to fostering effective governance.
Risk: We are vigilant and act within our authority to strengthen risk
culture through proactive identification, management and reporting, and
monitoring of risks and issues.
Responsibility: We are familiar with our own responsibilities and are
accountable to each other in fulfilling these.
Decision making: We act transparently and use good judgment which

enables us and our colleagues to make appropriate and timely decisions.
Policies and standards: We aim for simplification when working on
documents and tools to accelerate our business, support our
stakeholders, and help our colleagues.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 76 =====

56
Transparent Business
Model
We believe that a transparent business model
supports our Bank’s valued behaviours, strategy, and
promise to be here for good. It also strengthens the
trust clients, shareholders, communities and regulators
place in us.
We support a transparent business model by always
putting clients first, planning carefully, and ensuring
the decisions we make align to our Bank strategy and
conduct outcomes.
We need to learn lessons from external and internal

events and apply them to our business model and
strategy accordingly. That’s why we are continuing to
review how we operate to ensure we remain effective.
In doing so, we move closer to achieving our goals.
We commit to deliver clear and accessible
information about the Bank (including its products,
services and performance) to help our clients and
shareholders make the right decisions. Doing so
also helps us attract and support high quality,
diverse talent and deliver on our purpose.

Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 77 =====

57
Sustainability
We are dedicated to our ambitious sustainability
objectives, including:
Business:
• Driving innovation while adapting to and
supporting a sustainable economy
• Standing for sustainable growth and respect for
human rights
Operations:
• Embracing sustainability as a shared
responsibility, from conceptualising new
products and services, to travel decisions and
stakeholder engagement, all the way to
choosing our collaborators and suppliers

• Respecting human rights in our sourcing
decisions, in providing financial services, and in
how we work with each other
Communities:
• Striving for economic inclusion in our markets, because
each of us can make a difference through making the
right business decisions and by sharing unique skills with
local communities while volunteering
• Fostering sustainable economic growth, financial literacy,
community development, and diversity and inclusion

• Ensuring our approach to diversity, equity and inclusion is
mirrored by our suppliers and the communities in which
we operate
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 78 =====

Robust infrastructure, safe premises and
capacity planning (operational resilience)
Operational resilience is a vital part of our business: to
be here for good and do the right thing, we need to build
for the long-term today.
We believe that resilience builds our reliability, enhances
our availability, and protects our integrity in the way we
conduct our business. Disruptions can come in different
shapes and forms, and our ability to respond to and

recover from them are key to ensuring client satisfaction.
• Our clients and investors expect it: Resilience supports
business continuity. If something goes wrong (for
example, a cyber attack, ATM outage, or other blocks
to account access), our clients expect us to quickly
restore services.
• Our communities and stakeholders rely on it: We play
a critical role in our communities, especially where we
are one of the few financial services providers and are

part of the community ecosystem. Resilience helps us
uphold that responsibility.
58
• Our people never settle: Resilience makes us more
trustworthy as an organisation, improves our ability to
attract talent, and be a great place to work.
• Our competitive advantage is supported by it: Getting
things right sets us apart from the competition. It also
makes us more efficient, enabling us to invest more in
our future.
• Our regulators require it: Maintaining resilient

operations is more than a commitment to regulators.
It’s key to servicing our clients, markets and sectors. If
we get something wrong, consequences that impact
our business, our clients and our communities will
follow.
• Our reputation relies on it: Another consequence of
failure is damage to trust. Trust is foundational and
integral to operational resilience.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 79 =====

59
Other important
information
Additional codes that may apply
Questions, contact information and quick help guide
Questions, contact information and quick help guide
Additional codes that may apply 60
Questions, contact information
and quick help guide 61
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 80 =====

Additional codes that may apply
60
Other Group codes
We commit to the Group Code of Conduct. Sometimes, we may also
be governed by additional business codes (for example, the Financial
Markets Code of Conduct). These business codes provide more
detailed and specific requirements.
When these other codes apply to our roles, we must also follow them.
Regulatory codes
We may also be covered by other requirements set by governments
and regulators through regulatory codes of conduct and their rules.

When these other codes apply to our roles, we must also follow them,
too. If the regulatory codes and this Code give different standards,
then the more stringent standard must be followed.
If you have any questions about
which codes apply, or which to
follow, contact your local country
compliance team.
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info


===== Page 81 =====

Questions, contact
information and quick
help guide
61
Welcome Our valued behaviours Our culture Our stands Our clients Our market conduct Our business Other info
For any questions about the Code, contact
conduct&ethics@exchange.standardchartered.com.


===== Page 82 =====

January 2026
Thank you for living the
Code of Conduct and Ethics
For more information, please reach out to your
People Leader or the CFCR Conduct & Ethics team.
