===== Page 1 =====

WS Global CIO Office
InvesTips
Strategic wealth
planning
May 2026


===== Page 2 =====

2
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
Proactive wealth planning is imperative as investors with sophisticated
portfolios often face distinct complexities such as challenging asset valuations,
illiquid holdings, family dynamics and cross-border concerns. Globally, an
estimated USD 124trn is expected to pass to future generations by 2048.
However, without adequate planning and effective wealth management,
roughly 70% of affluent families lose their wealth by the second generation and

nearly 90% by the third. This underscores the need for tailored wealth planning
in your wealth journey.
This publication examines the importance of strategic wealth planning,
addressing fundamental and advanced estate structures, asset protection
approaches and methods for mitigating risks associated with cross-border
portfolios.
Wealth planning is a fundamental pillar of
comprehensive wealth management. It facilitates
seamless transfer of wealth, long-term preservation

of assets and robust governance across
generations.
Steve Brice
Global Chief Investment Officer
Manpreet Gill
Chief Investment Officer, Africa,
Middle East & Europe (AMEE)
Mike T an
Global Head, Wealth Planning
and Family Advisory, Private Bank


===== Page 3 =====

3
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
Retirement
consumption
Liab/i.rightlit/i.rightes
Family
values
Vis/i.righton
Wealth
creation
Wealth
accumulation
Non-ﬁnanc/i.rightal
transfer
Wealth
protection
Wealth
planning
Financ/i.rightal
transfer
Need for wealth planning
Despite the importance of preserving wealth and values across generations, only one in five Asian
families have a structured wealth succession arrangement in place. Some of the reasons for this big

gap may be discomfort in discussing death, avoidance of open communication, reluctance to let go
of control for fear of disrupting family dynamics, misconceptions and a lack of awareness about tax
implications and probate costs.
Wealth planning typically involves determining a framework and setting up
structures in order to pass on your accumulated wealth to future generations
of your family or such other causes or beneficiaries including charitable causes.

It’s not only about your wealth, but also your values and the vision you want
carried forward, and a legacy you wish to leave behind.
What and why of wealth planning?
Source: Standard Chartered


===== Page 4 =====

4
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
When it comes to financial planning, families spend the bulk of their time in considering strategies to
build wealth. Since it can be uncomfortable to think about transition, families tend to spend less time
than necessary to think about how they will pass down to the next generations. Some families only
address succession during inflection points: after a death, a divorce or another inheritance moment

when stress levels are generally higher than normal. T aking time to plan this in advance can not only
enable families plan succession more strategically, but also help avoid disharmony and conflicts.
• Align with evolving risk landscape: Questions around what happens to an investor’s wealth
after their lifetime have become especially important amid the ongoing demographical shifts,
technological disruption and changing family structures.
– A UN-compiled survey found that nearly one in six seniors lived alone globally, including

many wealthy seniors, live alone owing to trends such as global mobility, grey divorce and
childlessness. Solo agers face unique vulnerabilities without immediate family – such as
gaps in medical decision-making, exposure to financial misuse and a lack of support during
emergencies. Hence, decisions about health, finances and estate distribution have to be
intentionally designed. Without explicit directives, assets in several jurisdictions may revert to

state processes, health decisions fall to court-appointed representatives and intended wealth
may deplete through delays, fees or unintended distribution.
– Around 75% of the global affluent community worldwide has invested in digital assets such
as cryptocurrency, NFTs and virtual real estate. UHNWIs have around 13-15% allocation
towards alternative assets, including digital investments, in their portfolios. Unlike traditional
investments, digital holdings come with cyber risks, complex reporting and unclear tax rules. Of

course, these investments are also vulnerable to significant operational and counterparty risks.
Moreover, planning structures and succession laws for digital assets are still evolving globally,
creating uncertainty around their inheritance.
– Globally mobile families may face unique challenges when it comes to inheritance of cross-
border assets, foreign property ownership and compliance with conflicting succession laws.
Nearly 80% of UHNWIs have assets or investments in multiple countries, exposing them to

complicated tax/legal systems and prolonged probate processes.
• Pursue philanthropy and impact goals: Wealth planning goes beyond simple wealth transfer;
it includes aligning your wealth with your personal values, legacy and the social impact that
resonates with you. There is increasing evidence that affluent families are using advanced
philanthropic structures including donor-advised funds, charitable trusts and private foundations
to achieve their philanthropic goals. As per Cerulli Associates, of the USD 124trn expected to

change hands, an estimated USD 18trn is likely to be earmarked for philanthropy. Philanthropic
planning today requires strategic alignment between values, wealth goals and measurable
impact. Younger generations adopt systematic “in-parallel” giving rather than treating charity
as an afterthought. Advanced technology enables real-time impact tracking, allowing donors to
optimise allocation efficiency while also ensuring quantifiable outcomes.
• Cultivate financial stewardship across generations: Preserving family harmony and helping

future generations understand the meaning and responsibilities that come with their inheritance
is increasingly important. Families that instil financial stewardship among heirs tend to transform
the wealth planning from a tactical process into a strategic one, thereby integrating shared
values and vision. Financial stewardship refers to making responsible and rational decisions about
money, taxes and spending for the benefit of future wealth. Structured financial education and

governance can reduce the risk of wealth dissipation across generations.
• Manage liquidity across transitions: Liquidity is the lifeline of effective wealth management and
succession planning. Adequate liquidity can help families tide over difficult periods by supporting
sustained cash flows and offering business stability. Thoughtfully structured wealth planning
strategies can create liquidity with minimal opportunity cost and strengthen the family’s resilience

during adversity. Investors with complex portfolios often have significant wealth tied down in
long-term and illiquid investments such as real estate and businesses. Therefore, it is important to
manage liquidity as it can ensure enough funds to cover estate taxes, legal fees and administrative
costs without forcing the sale of core assets. For larger estates, higher taxes may apply in several
countries, underscoring the need to ensure sufficient liquidity as an integral part of wealth planning

efforts.


===== Page 5 =====

5
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
Wealth planning structures
Investors with complex portfolios may require advanced wealth planning
structures to protect and transition their wealth. They may also need to
initiate wealth planning earlier than others to be able to structure it after
considering a multitude of possibilities and pivot as required based on
evolving risks and challenges. The optimal structure depends on your family
size/situation and jurisdiction. Here, we will look at the prominent options that

you can consider.
A trust is a legal arrangement where the grantor or settlor (owner) transfers assets to the
trust, managed by a trustee (family member or third party) for the benefit of designated
heirs named in the trust document. While wills take effect only after the grantor’s lifetime,
a trust can operate during and beyond the lifetime of the grantor, offering better control
and flexibility. Trusts are among the most sought-after tools for wealth planning because

they provide control, efficiency and protection. The assets placed in a trust bypass
probate (court proceedings to settle claims), remain private and protect sensitive financial
information. They allow the grantor to specify when and how the assets will be distributed.
Trusts are broadly categorised as the following:
• A living (Inter Vivos) trust is a legal arrangement created by the grantor during
their lifetime to transfer assets. This trust is managed by a trustee and the assets are

distributed to beneficiaries as per the terms mentioned in the trust document.
T rust structures
Parameters Description Benefits
Revocable • Can be revoked by the grantor • Offers flexibility and privacy
• Avoids probate
Irrevocable • Cannot be revoked once
created
• Assets are permanently
transferred
• Better asset protection and
tax efficiency subject to proper
planning
Discretionary • Asset distribution to
beneficiaries is decided by the
trustee

• Flexibility, protects
beneficiaries from creditors
Charitable • Assets are earmarked for
charitable purposes
• May enjoy potential tax
benefits, supports philanthropy
Source: Standard Chartered
Different parameters of living trusts
• T estamentary trust is a trust that comes into effect only after the grantor’s lifetime. It is
usually created through a person’s will (legal document) to ensure assets are managed
and distributed according to their wishes mentioned in the will.


===== Page 6 =====

6
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
A family office is a legal structure that is frequently used to manage the personal wealth
and assets of ultra-wealthy families and can take on additional roles and responsibilities
as the family determines. The responsibilities of a family office span investment and risk
management, tax strategy, estate planning, governance and philanthropy. These entities
help to preserve and grow wealth across generations, centralise asset management

and governance while maintaining privacy. Families have the option to set up a Single-
Family Office (SFO) or leverage the services of a Multi-Family Office (MFO), which is
professionally managed.
• A SFO manages the wealth and assets of a specific wealthy family. This entity will act as
a central hub that handles investments, taxes, estate planning and philanthropy as per
the aspirations and vision of the family. It may also handle lifestyle services for the family.

T ypically, the assets under management (AUM) should be substantial to ensure that it
can justify the associated costs (staffing and resources). T o attract family offices, major
financial hubs offer tax concessions provided they meet specific minimum AUM and
substance requirements.
• A MFO manages the wealth of more than one wealthy family. The services offered are
similar to that of single-family offices. This set up allows wealth solutions to be curated

based on the family’s financial needs; however, the extent of control and customisation
may be relatively limited. In exchange for the services offered, a certain percentage of
the investment portfolio is charged. The cost is often lower than a single-family office.
• A virtual family office is a lean model where most operational functions are outsourced,
enabling families to access specialised cross-border wealth expertise with minimal
in-house staffing and lower costs. In contrast, an embedded family office operates

within the family’s existing business structure. This is a common approach in Asia where
wealth and business management are often combined, though families may eventually
carve out a standalone office as their portfolios grow.
Asia is now a fast-growing hub for family offices; for instance, Singapore and Hong
Kong have seen a fourfold increase in the number of family offices since 2020. Similarly,
Middle Eastern centres such as Dubai and Abu Dhabi are seeing strong traction, driven

by favourable tax regimes, supportive regulatory environments and robust cross border
wealth management ecosystems.
Family office
Foundations are stand-alone legal structures that manage assets over the long term.
Unlike a trust, the foundation itself owns the assets and is run by a council under a set of
rules (a charter and by-laws).
This set-up separates family wealth from personal ownership, adds governance and
can reduce conflict during succession. While they exist in several jurisdictions, the UAE’s

Dubai International Financial Centre (DIFC) and Abu Dhabi Global Market (ADGM) have
become popular as they offer common law courts, modern regulations and privacy ideal
for cross border families.
Foundations
Families in Singapore may consider setting up a Variable Capital Company (VCC), which
is a corporate structure designed for investment management and wealth planning. It
gives families the flexibility to add or withdraw capital easily, and to organise different

investments under a single set-up.
Each sub-fund sits within the same VCC while keeping its assets and liabilities separate.
This framework is useful when defining what should pass to whom, and reduces the
complexity often seen in multi-generational wealth structures.
Venture Capital
Company (VCC)


===== Page 7 =====

7
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
A Private Trust Company (PTC) is a corporate trustee established by a family, typically
comprising family members and trusted advisors, to provide trustee services for the family
only. This structure provides families with greater control over complex assets, particularly
when trusts hold operating businesses or high-value holdings.
PTCs have gained significant traction in jurisdictions such as Singapore and Hong Kong,

offering families a stable, multi-generational decision-making body that facilitates
smooth wealth transfer while reducing reliance on external trustees and preserving family-
specific objectives.
Private T rust
Company (PTC)
A comprehensive wealth management effort should include asset protection strategies
that safeguard wealth against unsolicited claims and lawsuits. Specific strategies can
ensure smooth transfer of wealth to heirs while maintaining control and avoiding family

disputes during succession. We look at some prominent asset protection strategies below.
• Gifting is a widely used strategy to transfer wealth during a person’s lifetime. It is
particularly popular in Asian regions, where family-owned businesses, heirlooms and real
estate often dominate wealth portfolios. Senior family members can gift assets including
cash, jewellery, property or equity in a business to the future generation. This method
offers several benefits:

– Certain jurisdictions may allow tax-free lifetime gifting. For instance, Singapore and
Hong Kong have no gift tax, making lifetime gifting tax-efficient
– Seniors can transfer assets in a controlled manner while ensuring responsible
management by heirs
– Gifts to heirs made during the owner’s lifetime bypass probate, saving time, effort
and cost
– Planned gifts can also help to avoid family disputes
Asset protection
strategies within
wealth planning


===== Page 8 =====

8
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
• Savings plans can support wealth planning by building a pool of liquid assets that heirs
can use to settle estate taxes, legal costs or other obligations without forcing the sale of
family assets. They can also help equalise inheritances. Usually, under an ILIT, payment
of premiums may be treated as a gift to the trust (potentially qualifying for the annual
gift tax exclusion).
• Life insurance can be used as a strategic tool to protect family’s wealth while providing

immediate liquidity to heirs to manage costs and obligations. Depending on jurisdiction,
policy ownership and beneficiary structure, insurance payouts may bypass probate and
offer protection from creditor claims or lawsuits. Life insurance is also used to equalise
inheritance among family members without breaking up the core asset.
However, there are specific solutions that support efficient wealth planning. Moreover,
solutions vary, and it is best to choose the one that aligns best with the individual’s

jurisdiction, features, tax treatment and circumstances.
T ype of
Insurance
Description Benefits
Participating
savings plan
• Designed for wealth
accumulation and wealth
transfer
• Stable medium- to long-term
value accumulation through
dividends, supporting wealth
preservation and transfer
Whole Life • Provides lifelong protection with
guaranteed or participating
cash value accumulation
• Offers death benefit for wealth
planning
• May provide stable long-term

value accumulation
Indexed
Universal Life
(IUL)
• Provides death benefit
protection with policy value
linked to the performance of
selected market indices, subject
to caps, floors and policy
charges
• Provides downside protection
with capped upside linked to
indices, subject to charges and
other relevant considerations
Universal Life
(UL)
• Flexible life insurance providing
death benefit coverage with
policy value accumulation
subject to credit rates and

policy charges
• Provides flexible life protection
with premium and coverage
flexibility
• Policy Performance is subject
to credited interest rate and
charges
Variable
Universal Life
(VUL)
• Provides life coverage with
policy value invested in a range
of insurer-approved investment
options
• Enables investment-
linked growth and wealth
accumulation and protection
with returns and risks fully
borne by the policyholders
depending on jurisdiction and

platform
Private
Placement
Life Insurance
(PPLI)
• Highly customised for
sophisticated investors, offering
life coverage with tailored
investment capabilities subject
to jurisdictional and regulatory
parameters
• Provides a customised
insurance wrapper for
sophisticated investors. May
offer tax and estate planning
efficiencies depending on
jurisdiction
Source: Standard Chartered
Insurance solutions that support wealth transfer


===== Page 9 =====

9
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
Cross-border considerations
Modern-day portfolios tend to have cross-border exposures, which makes it
critical to consider unique tax laws, inheritance rules and legal systems across
jurisdictions. A structured wealth transfer plan that overlooks these aspects
can erode wealth and create compliance complications. Proactive cross-
border planning is essential to preserve value and ensure better succession.

Some key factors need attention here:
T axes
Inheritance, estate and gift tax regimes vary widely
by country. It is important to understand the local tax
implications on the assets held and stay compliant.
Having assets in multiple jurisdictions could result in
double taxation. Depending on the availability, tax
treaties and credits can help mitigate this effectively.
Holistic and professional global planning is essential as tax
transparency increases worldwide.

Succession laws and regulations
Several countries enforce heirship rules that cannot be
bypassed, regardless of the owner’s wishes. For example,
Japan and South Korea mandate that a portion of the
estate goes to the spouse and children, even if the will
or trust document specifies otherwise. It is, therefore,
important for investors to understand the succession laws
and regulations of all the jurisdictions where portfolios
have exposure. Families with businesses operating across

multiple geographies or portfolios with exposure to
immovable properties in different countries may have to
deal with significant complexity. In such cases, it is best to
consult a cross-border wealth planning expert to structure
a succession plan to ensure compliance while minimising
risks.
Currency and economic risk
Forex fluctuations, macroeconomic uncertainty and
inflation can impact the value of your estate. The risk
of value erosion can be even higher for families with

substantial global exposures. For instance, if a large part of
your portfolio is in Emerging Markets and their currencies
depreciate sharply, your heirs may inherit a far lower value
than intended. Undertaking measures to manage this risk
will help in preserving wealth across generations. We review
some common strategies to manage these risks below:
• Currency hedging can protect your wealth from
exchange rate swings. For instance, if you hold assets in a

foreign currency, exchange rate fluctuations can reduce
their value. By hedging to your home currency, you can
ensure that your heirs receive a predictable amount.
• Geographic diversification is a popular strategy used to
optimise risk-adjusted returns; however, this can come in
handy in wealth planning as well. Wealth across different
countries reduce the impact of a single economy’s
downturns owing to geopolitical uncertainties.
• By investing in stable jurisdictions, your wealth is placed

in countries with strong regulations and legal systems.
Such economies often demonstrate economic stability
and can safeguard assets from political or financial
turmoil.
It is also important to educate heirs about these risks so
that they can make informed decisions, maintain liquidity
and avoid forced sale of assets during market downturns.
Financial education fosters resilience and stewardship,
ensuring wealth preservation across generations despite

moving into a more transparent assets and wealth
reporting regime. Failing to comply with tax reporting rules
can lead to penalties and even freezing of assets. Beyond
financial challenges such as limited liquidity, freezing of
assets, penalties and prolonged probate processes, non-
compliance could lead to reputational damage and family
conflicts. T o tackle these potential issues, investors should:
• map their investments against jurisdictions and

offshore accounts, foreign investments and cross-border
trusts, and
• leverage tax credits and regulatory provisions to
minimise costs and reduce tax implications
Investors with complex portfolios often engage
international wealth management firms to ensure
proactive management, compliance, governance and
reporting.


===== Page 10 =====

10
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
Strategic wealth planning is more than just passing on wealth;
it is about preserving values and providing a long-term vision
across generations.
Investors with complex portfolios should start early, engage experts, set-up structures and governance
frameworks that align with the family’s aspirations. Using advanced structures such as trusts, family
offices and limited partnerships, along with strategies like gifting and insurance, can help devise a

well-structured wealth plan that secures wealth and transitions your wealth across generations.
With a strategic plan, your wealth can be a story of continuity, purpose and resilience.
Conclusion


===== Page 11 =====

research material, independent research, an offer, recommendation or solicitation to enter into any transaction or adopt
any hedging, trading or investment strategy, in relation to any securities or other financial instruments. This document is
for general evaluation only. It does not take into account the specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular
needs of any particular person or class of persons and it has not been prepared for any particular person or class of persons.

You should not rely on any contents of this document in making any investment decisions. Before making any investment,
you should carefully read the relevant offering documents and seek independent legal, tax and regulatory advice. In
particular, we recommend you to seek advice regarding the suitability of the investment product, taking into account your
specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs, before you make a commitment to purchase the

regarding future performance. The value of investments, and the income from them, can go down as well as up, and you
may not recover the amount of your original investment. You are not certain to make a profit and may lose money. Any
forecast contained herein as to likely future movements in rates or prices or likely future events or occurrences constitutes
an opinion only and is not indicative of actual future movements in rates or prices or actual future events or occurrences

(as the case may be). This document must not be forwarded or otherwise made available to any other person without the
express written consent of the Standard Chartered Group (as defined below). Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in
England with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18. The Principal Office of the Company is situated
in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation

the ultimate parent company of Standard Chartered Bank, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates (including each
branch or representative office), form the Standard Chartered Group. Standard Chartered Global Private Bank is the
private banking division of Standard Chartered. Private banking activities may be carried out internationally by different
legal entities and affiliates within the Standard Chartered Group (each an “SC Group Entity”) according to local regulatory

requirements. Not all products and services are provided by all branches, subsidiaries and affiliates within the Standard
Chartered Group. Some of the SC Group Entities only act as representatives of Standard Chartered Global Private Bank and
may not be able to offer products and services or offer advice to clients.
Copyright © 2026, Accounting Research & Analytics, LLC d/b/a CFRA (and its affiliates, as applicable). Reproduction of
content provided by CFRA in any form is prohibited except with the prior written permission of CFRA. CFRA content is not

United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. While CFRA exercised due care in compiling
this analysis, CFRA, ITS THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS, AND ALL RELATED ENTITIES SPECIFICALL Y DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, to the full extent permitted by law, regarding the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness

CFRA, and such content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. CFRA and any third-party providers, as
well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness
or availability of such content. In no event shall CFRA, its affiliates, or their third-party suppliers be liable for any direct,
indirect, special, or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including lost income or lost profit and

Banking activities may be carried out internationally by different branches, subsidiaries and affiliates within the Standard
Chartered Group according to local regulatory requirements. Opinions may contain outright “buy”, “sell”, “hold” or other
opinions. The time horizon of this opinion is dependent on prevailing market conditions and there is no planned frequency
for updates to the opinion. This opinion is not independent of Standard Chartered Group’s trading strategies or positions.

Standard Chartered Group and/or its affiliates or its respective officers, directors, employee benefit programmes or
employees, including persons involved in the preparation or issuance of this document may at any time, to the extent
permitted by applicable law and/or regulation, be long or short any securities or financial instruments referred to in this
document or have material interest in any such securities or related investments. Therefore, it is possible, and you should

assume, that Standard Chartered Group has a material interest in one or more of the financial instruments mentioned


===== Page 12 =====

may have a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of this company/issuer. All covering strategist are licensed
to provide investment recommendations under Monetary Authority of Singapore or Hong Kong Monetary Authority. This
document must not be forwarded or otherwise made available to any other person without the express written consent of
Standard Chartered Group.
Sustainable Investments
Any ESG data used or referred to has been provided by Morningstar, Sustainalytics, MSCI or Bloomberg. Refer to 1)

Morningstar website under Sustainable Investing, 2) Sustainalytics website under ESG Risk Ratings, 3) MCSI website under
ESG Business Involvement Screening Research and 4) Bloomberg green, social & sustainability bonds guide for more
information. The ESG data is as at the date of publication based on data provided, is for informational purpose only and is
not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose, and it may be subject to change. The

ESG data providers may not provide data coverage of all companies or securities in our Sustainable Investment Universe
or Fund Select funds. As a result, a small subset of companies or securities will not be in scope for exclusionary screening.
Sustainable Investments (SI): This refers to funds that have been classified as ‘ESG Intentional Investments - Overall’ by
Morningstar. SI funds have explicitly stated in their prospectus and regulatory filings that they either incorporate ESG

factors into the investment process or have a thematic focus on the environment, gender diversity, low carbon, renewable
energy, water or community development. For equity, it refers to shares/stocks issued by companies with Sustainalytics ESG
Risk Rating of Low/Negligible. For bonds, it refers to debt instruments issued by issuers with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating
of Low/Negligible, and/or those being certified green, social, sustainable bonds by Bloomberg. For structured products,

it refers to products that are issued by any issuer who has a Sustainable Finance framework that aligns with Standard
Chartered’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework, with underlying assets that are part of the Sustainable Investment
universe or separately approved by Standard Chartered’s Sustainable Finance Governance Committee. Sustainalytics ESG
risk ratings shown are factual and are not an indicator that the product is classified or marketed as “green”, “sustainable” or

Bahrain: This document is being distributed in Bahrain by Standard Chartered Bank, Bahrain Branch, having its address at
P.O. 29, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain, is a branch of Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed by the Central Bank of
Bahrain as a conventional retail bank. Botswana: This document is being distributed in Botswana by, and is attributable to,
Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited which is a financial institution licensed under the Section 6 of the Banking Act

CAP 46.04 and is listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange. Brunei Darussalam: This document is being distributed in Brunei
Darussalam by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Brunei Branch) | Registration Number RFC/61 and Standard
Chartered Securities (B) Sdn Bhd | Registration Number RC20001003. Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England
with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18. Standard Chartered Securities (B) Sdn Bhd is a limited

liability company registered with the Registry of Companies with Registration Number RC20001003 and licensed by Brunei
Darussalam Central Bank as a Capital Markets Service License Holder with License Number BDCB/R/CMU/S3-CL and it is
authorised to conduct Islamic investment business through an Islamic window. China Mainland: This document is being
distributed in China by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited which is mainly regulated by

National Financial Regulatory Administration (NFRA), State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), and People’s Bank
of China (PBOC). Hong Kong: In Hong Kong, this document, except for any portion advising on or facilitating any decision
on futures contracts trading, is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (“SCBHK”), a subsidiary of
Standard Chartered PLC. SCBHK has its registered address at 32/F, Standard Chartered Bank Building, 4-4A Des Voeux

Futures Commission (“SFC”) to carry on T ype 1 (dealing in securities), T ype 4 (advising on securities), T ype 6 (advising on
corporate finance) and T ype 9 (asset management) regulated activity under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap.
571) (“SFO”) (CE No. AJI614). The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong
Kong and you are advised to exercise caution in relation to any offer set out herein. If you are in doubt about any of the

contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice. Any product named herein may not be
offered or sold in Hong Kong by means of any document at any time other than to “professional investors” as defined in the
SFO and any rules made under that ordinance. In addition, this document may not be issued or possessed for the purposes
of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, and any interests may not be disposed of, to any person unless such person is

outside Hong Kong or is a “professional investor” as defined in the SFO and any rules made under that ordinance, or as
otherwise may be permitted by that ordinance. In Hong Kong, Standard Chartered Global Private Bank is the private
banking division of SCBHK, a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC. Ghana: Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Limited
accepts no liability and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising directly or indirectly (including special, incidental or

the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment to invest in an
investment. T o unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to feedback.ghana@sc.com. Please do not


===== Page 13 =====

13
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
reply to this email. Call our Priority Banking on 0302610750 for any questions or service queries. You are advised not to send
any confidential and/or important information to Standard Chartered via e-mail, as Standard Chartered makes no
representations or warranties as to the security or accuracy of any information transmitted via e-mail. Standard Chartered

shall not be responsible for any loss or damage suffered by you arising from your decision to use e-mail to communicate
with the Bank. India: This document is being distributed in India by Standard Chartered in its capacity as a distributor of
mutual funds and referrer of any other third party financial products. Standard Chartered does not offer any ‘Investment
Advice’ as defined in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 or otherwise.

Services/products related securities business offered by Standard Charted are not intended for any person, who is a resident
of any jurisdiction, the laws of which imposes prohibition on soliciting the securities business in that jurisdiction without
going through the registration requirements and/or prohibit the use of any information contained in this document.
Indonesia: This document is being distributed in Indonesia by Standard Chartered Bank, Indonesia branch, which is a

financial institution licensed and supervised by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (Financial Service Authority) and Bank Indonesia.
Jersey: In Jersey, Standard Chartered Global Private Bank is the Registered Business Name of the Jersey Branch of Standard
Chartered Bank. The Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Copies of the latest audited accounts of Standard Chartered Bank are available from its principal place of business in

Jersey: PO Box 80, 15 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PT. Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with
limited liability by Royal Charter in 1853 Reference Number ZC 18. The Principal Office of the Company is situated in England
at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. The Jersey Branch of Standard

Chartered Bank is also an authorised financial services provider under license number 44946 issued by the Financial Sector
Conduct Authority of the Republic of South Africa. Jersey is not part of the United Kingdom and all business transacted with
Standard Chartered Bank, Jersey Branch and other SC Group Entity outside of the United Kingdom, are not subject to some
or any of the investor protection and compensation schemes available under United Kingdom law. Kenya: This document

is being distributed in Kenya by and is attributable to Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited. Investment Products and
Services are distributed by Standard Chartered Investment Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard
Chartered Bank Kenya Limited that is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority in Kenya, as a Fund Manager. Standard
Chartered Bank Kenya Limited is regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya. Malaysia: This document is being distributed in

Malaysia by Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad (“SCBMB”). Recipients in Malaysia should contact SCBMB in relation
to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. This document has not been reviewed by the Securities
Commission Malaysia. The product lodgement, registration, submission or approval by the Securities Commission of
Malaysia does not amount to nor indicate recommendation or endorsement of the product, service or promotional activity.

Investment products are not deposits and are not obligations of, not guaranteed by, and not protected by SCBMB or any of
the affiliates or subsidiaries, or by Perbadanan Insurans Deposit Malaysia, any government or insurance agency. Investment
products are subject to investment risks, including the possible loss of the principal amount invested. SCBMB expressly
disclaim any liability and responsibility for any loss arising directly or indirectly (including special, incidental or consequential

loss or damage) arising from the financial losses of the Investment Products due to market condition. Nigeria: This document
is being distributed in Nigeria by Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited (SCB Nigeria), a bank duly licensed and
regulated by the Central Bank of Nigeria. SCB Nigeria accepts no liability for any loss or damage arising directly or indirectly
(including special, incidental or consequential loss or damage) from your use of these documents. You should seek advice

from a financial adviser on the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a
commitment to invest in an investment. T o unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to
clientcare.ng@sc.com requesting to be removed from our mailing list. Please do not reply to this email. Call our Priority
Banking on 02 012772514 for any questions or service queries. SCB Nigeria shall not be responsible for any loss or damage

This document is being distributed in Pakistan by, and attributable to Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited having
its registered office at PO Box 5556, I.I Chundrigar Road Karachi, which is a banking company registered with State Bank of
Pakistan under Banking Companies Ordinance 1962 and is also having licensed issued by Securities & Exchange Commission
of Pakistan for Security Advisors. Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited acts as a distributor of mutual funds and

referrer of other third-party financial products. Singapore: This document is being distributed in Singapore by, and is
attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited (Registration No. 201224747C/ GST Group Registration No.
MR-8500053-0, “SCBSL”). Recipients in Singapore should contact SCBSL in relation to any matters arising from, or in
connection with, this document. SCBSL is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed

(a) OF THE SFA, OR ON THE BASIS THAT THE SECURITY OR SECURITIES-BASED DERIVATIVES CONTRACT MA Y ONL Y BE
ACQUIRED AT A CONSIDERATION OF NOT LESS THAN S$200,000 (OR ITS EQUIVALENT IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY) FOR
EACH TRANSACTION. Further, in relation to any security or securities-based derivatives contract, neither this document nor


===== Page 14 =====

14
InvesTips: Strategic wealth planning | May 2026
the Issuer Documentation has been registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the SFA.
Accordingly, this document and any other document or material in connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for
subscription or purchase, of the product may not be circulated or distributed, nor may the product be offered or sold, or be
made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or indirectly, to persons other than a relevant

person pursuant to section 275(1) of the SFA, or any person pursuant to section 275(1A) of the SFA, and in accordance with
the conditions specified in section 275 of the SFA, or pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other
applicable provision of the SFA. In relation to any collective investment schemes referred to in this document, this document
is for general information purposes only and is not an offering document or prospectus (as defined in the SFA). This

document is not, nor is it intended to be (i) an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any capital markets product; or
(ii) an advertisement of an offer or intended offer of any capital markets product. Deposit Insurance Scheme: Singapore
dollar deposits of non-bank depositors are insured by the Singapore Deposit Insurance Corporation, for up to S$100,000 in
aggregate per depositor per Scheme member by law. Foreign currency deposits, dual currency investments, structured

deposits and other investment products are not insured. This advertisement has not been reviewed by the Monetary
Authority of Singapore. T aiwan: SC Group Entity or Standard Chartered Bank (T aiwan) Limited (“SCB (T aiwan)”) may be
involved in the financial instruments contained herein or other related financial instruments. The author of this document
may have discussed the information contained herein with other employees or agents of SC or SCB (T aiwan). The author

and the above-mentioned employees of SC or SCB (T aiwan) may have taken related actions in respect of the information
involved (including communication with customers of SC or SCB (T aiwan) as to the information contained herein). The
opinions contained in this document may change, or differ from the opinions of employees of SC or SCB (T aiwan). SC and
SCB (T aiwan) will not provide any notice of any changes to or differences between the above-mentioned opinions. This

document may cover companies with which SC or SCB (T aiwan) seeks to do business at times and issuers of financial
instruments. Therefore, investors should understand that the information contained herein may serve as specific purposes
as a result of conflict of interests of SC or SCB (T aiwan). SC, SCB (T aiwan), the employees (including those who have
discussions with the author) or customers of SC or SCB (T aiwan) may have an interest in the products, related financial

instruments or related derivative financial products contained herein; invest in those products at various prices and on
different market conditions; have different or conflicting interests in those products. The potential impacts include market
makers’ related activities, such as dealing, investment, acting as agents, or performing financial or consulting services in
relation to any of the products referred to in this document. UAE: DIFC - Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England

with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18.The Principal Office of the Company is situated in
England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation
Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. Standard Chartered Bank,
Dubai International Financial Centre having its offices at Dubai International Financial Centre, Building 1, Gate Precinct, P.O.

(“DFSA”). This document is intended for use only by Professional Clients and is not directed at Retail Clients as defined by
the DFSA Rulebook. In the DIFC we are authorised to provide financial services only to clients who qualify as Professional
Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail Clients. As a Professional Client you will not be given the higher retail
client protection and compensation rights and if you use your right to be classified as a Retail Client we will be unable to

provide financial services and products to you as we do not hold the required license to undertake such activities. For Islamic
transactions, we are acting under the supervision of our Shariah Supervisory Committee. Relevant information on our
Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available on the Standard Chartered Bank website in the Islamic banking
section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by the Central Bank of the U.A.E. SC UAE

is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide financial
analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the meaning of UAE Securities and Commodities Authority Decision
No. 48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and financial analysis. Uganda: Our Investment products and services
are distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an

been approved by Standard Chartered Bank for the purposes of Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services
and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 2012 only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard
Chartered Global Private Bank) is also an authorised financial services provider (license number 45747) in terms of the
South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The Materials have not been prepared in accordance

with UK legal requirements designed to promote the independence of investment research, and that it is not subject to any
prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment research. Vietnam: This document is being distributed in
Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulated by State Bank of
Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should contact Standard Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited for any queries regarding

any content of this document. Zambia: This document is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company
incorporated in Zambia and registered as a commercial bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and
Financial Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws of Zambia.


===== Page 15 =====

WS Global CIO Office
May 2026
InvesTips
Managing
allocations in
volatile markets


===== Page 16 =====

2
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
H1 2026 has proven even more complex for investors, as the global macro
environment grapples with uncertainty around Middle East tensions, oil price
swings and inflationary pressures.
While the triggers of bear markets come in many shapes and forms, our
experience through these past crises has been similar – painful. Timing
the market cycle is never easy, but history offers vital lessons on managing

investment allocations during volatility – regardless of what triggers it.
In 2002, the technology bubble burst. This was
followed by the 2008 credit crisis and the 2012
sovereign debt crisis. More recently, in 2020, the
dual shock of the COVID-19 pandemic and the oil
price collapse took the world by surprise and dealt
an unprecedented blow to global growth. Markets
struggled again in early 2022, facing challenges
due to rising interest rates, persistent inflation, high

commodity prices and heightened geopolitical risks.
Steve Brice
Global Chief Investment Officer
Manpreet Gill
Chief Investment Officer, Africa,
Middle East & Europe (AMEE)


===== Page 17 =====

3
Remember that investment timeframe matters, and bear markets tend
to be sharp but short-lived
A historical analysis of global equity market returns (the charts below and on Page 4)
shows that:
• The probability of suffering a drawdown of a magnitude similar to that seen in 2020
(-33.8%) is low, although there is a lot more variability in returns within a given year than
calendar-year results would seem to suggest.
• As investors extend their investment time horizons from the short term (1-6 months) to the

longer term (5-10 years), the probability of enduring negative returns drops substantially
(39% to 7%). Bear markets tend to be short-lived but are also associated with extreme price
action and pullbacks. However, history shows that as the global economy recovers from
the shocks that trigger a recession, the probability of earning positive returns for long-term
investors is relatively high.
Lesson
# 1
Probability of return drawdown drops significantly as the investment

horizon extends
Distribution of 1-month, 6-month, 1-year, 3-year, 5-year and 10-year returns of the MSCI All
Country World Index (data from 1 Jan 1988 to 30 Apr 2026)
Negative returns Posit/i.rightve returns
39%
61%
68%
32%
72%
28%
80%
20%
81%
19%
93%
7%
1-month6 -month 1-year 3-year 5-year 10-year
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered.


===== Page 18 =====

4
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
Keep in mind that staying invested through volatile times proves
beneficial in achieving long-term investment goals
According to Nobel Prize-winning Daniel Kahneman’s ‘prospect theory’, for most of us, the pain
we feel from losses is twice as great as the joy we get from financial gain. The pain we felt in
2020 due to global equities’ decline significantly outweighed the joy many felt when markets

posted similarly sized gains in 2019. This very human trait tends to affect our decision-making
process.
It is a natural inclination to want to get out of the market when things are ugly and get back in
when things are better, but timing the market is more often than not a losing game. Although it
is never easy to endure losses, it is important for us as investors to be patient. In the chart below,
the dark blue bars represent the largest declines from a ‘peak’ (high) to a ‘trough’ (low) that

occurred within each year, while the light blue bars represent the corresponding return for the
full calendar year. Despite significant intra-year volatility, the global equity index had positive
annual returns in 28 out of the last 38 years since 1988.
While downside risk is always an investor concern, history shows that staying invested and riding
through bear markets proves beneficial in achieving long-term investment goals.
Lesson
# 2
Despite intra-year volatility, the MSCI ACWI had positive year-end total returns

28 out of the last 38 years since 1988
MSCI ACWI largest declines vs. full-year returns (1988-2025)
Maximum drawdown during year Full-year return
40%
30%
20%
-60%
-50%
-40%
-30%
-20%
-10%
0%
10%
1988
1990
1992
1994
1996
1998
2000
2002
2004
2006
2008
2010
2012
2014
2016
2018
2020
2022
2024
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered.


===== Page 19 =====

5
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
Diversification is paramount during tough times
The chart below compares performance statistics of a multi-asset allocation vs. various assets,
showcasing significant benefits of staying diversified during market downturns. Put differently,
diversification provides investors with more ‘staying power’ – better risk tolerance and downside
protection – to absorb emotions during distressed periods.

Understand that de-risking when market uncertainty is elevated
comes with a cost and you should not compromise your diversification
If you think your portfolio is not aligned with your long-term objectives, or if you have a
more bearish view of the future, you might want to (i) reduce exposure to risky assets or (ii)
incrementally add adequate protection. One approach worth considering is to take advantage
of any short-term rebound in risk assets to rebalance to our suggested recession allocation

(which is proxied by 15% Cash, 10% Gold, 60% Global Bonds, 5% Alternatives and 10% Global
Equity). This allocation has proved to be resilient through most major market corrections and
bear markets since 2000 (refer to the chart above).
That said, de-risking when market uncertainty is elevated is not free of risks. Rotating to a safe-
haven asset, such as bonds, leaves you more vulnerable to a sharp rise in yields (bond prices
fall when yields rise, a situation that played out in 2022). There are also embedded opportunity

costs of missing out on gains from potential rebounds in risk assets, such as equities and high-
yield (HY) bonds. T o highlight this point, the chart above shows average returns across assets 12
months post the trough in major corrections, which tend to be strongly positive.
Lesson
# 3
Lesson
# 4
Diversified allocations have performed well in the periods following major
market downturns
Average performance of various assets during vs. post drawdowns since 2000*

Average 12m return
Average 12m returns post max drawdown
Av
Past drawdowns
Average returns during past drawdowns*
Asia ex-Japan
Global Equit/i.rightes
US
Europe
UK
Japan
DM HY
Gold
EM LCY
EM USD
DM IG Corp
Alternatives
Asia USD
Global Bonds
Cash
DM IG Sov
Global balanced allocation
Recession allocation
34.4%
31.8%
37.3%
38.7%
38.8%
42.5%
24.2%
16.4%
16.1%
15.3%
9.5%
9.5%
8.5%
4.4%
2.9%
1.9%
19.1%
8.5%
-31.3%
-29.3%
-27.9%
-28.5%
2.1%
4.2%
3.2%
-10.6%

-11.1%
-26.8%
-28.4%
-0.6%
-8.6%
-4.8%
-6.9%
-4.5%
-14.4%
-1.8%
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered. *Periods in scope include all global equity corrections that are declines of 10% or
more. Global balanced allocation is proxied by 4% Cash, 30% Global bonds, 42% Global Equity, 4% Gold, 20% Alternatives.
Recession allocation is proxied by 15% Cash, 60% Global bonds, 10% Global Equity, 10% Gold, 5% Alternatives.
Note: Asia ex-Japan equity data since Jan 2001, DM IG Corp bonds data since Oct 2000, EM USD bonds data since Jan

2004, EM LCY bonds data since July 2008, Asia USD bonds data since July 2009


===== Page 20 =====

6
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
A diversified allocation for the long and winding road ahead
As we progress through a volatile economic cycle, the shift towards a regime of high interest
rates, high inflationary pressure and high commodity prices has been, and could remain, a
source of market volatility going forward.
Against this backdrop, we would suggest investors focus on (i) improving portfolio resilience
to hold through any short-term market fluctuations and (ii) starting to look for attractive long-

term opportunities to deploy further capital. In all cases, a diversified balanced allocation can
constitute both a useful tool and a prudent approach for a successful journey to achieve long-
term investment goals. Historically, a well-diversified portfolio has shown superior risk-adjusted
returns (lower risk per unit of return) once you look through the relatively short period of volatility.
Lesson
# 5
A well-diversified allocation shows superior performance over the long term

Annualised returns and volatility of various assets and a global balanced allocation since 2016
Global
equity
Global
bonds Alternatives Gold
Global
balanced
allocation*
Average volatility (ann.) 10.4% 2.1% 3.5% 10.3% 6.4%
Average return (ann.) 14.6% 4.0% 4.1% 14.2% 7.6%
Risk-adjusted return 0.71 0.52 0.84 0.73 0.83
Source: Bloomberg, Standard Chartered. *Global balanced allocation is proxied by 4% Cash, 30% Global bonds, 42% Global
Equity, 4% Gold, 20% Alternatives.


===== Page 21 =====

7
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
Long-volatility strategies can help hedge risk exposure
Volatility often rises sharply during market stress, which is also when diversified portfolios can
suffer their largest drawdowns. Long-volatility strategies are designed to benefit when volatility
increases, helping to cushion losses elsewhere and improve portfolio resilience.
Instead of trying to predict whether markets will rise or fall, long-volatility approaches focus on

profiting from bigger-than-expected moves and volatility spikes. Common ways to implement
long-volatility strategies include the following:
Options are financial instruments that give an investor the right, but not the obligation, to buy or
sell an asset (stocks, indices, currencies or commodities) at a predetermined price (strike price)
before a certain date (expiry).
• Call option gives the right to buy the underlying asset at the specified price.

• Put option gives the right to sell at a fixed price. Investors can design strategies that help
navigate market volatility while capitalising rangebound movements.
T wo simple option structures often used to express a long-volatility view are ‘straddles’ and
‘strangles’. Both aim to benefit when the market makes a large move in either direction—
especially when volatility rises.
• ‘Strangle’ setup requires buying a call and a put with the same expiration date but with

different strike prices. The call option’s strike price is above the current price and the put
option’s strike price is lower than the prevalent market price (both are out-of-the-market
contracts). This lets an investor profit from extreme market volatility in either direction.
• ‘Straddle’ involves buying a call and a put with same expiration date and strike prices. While
the set up and outcomes are largely similar to a strangle strategy, this arrangement works out

cheaper but usually requires a larger market move to profit.
Lesson
# 6
Long straddle vs strangle
-15
-10
-5
0
5
10
15
78 80 85 90 95 1001 05 1101 15 1201 22
Proﬁt/loss (%)
Stock price at expirat/i.righton
Long straddle
Long strangle
Source: Standard Chartered.
The Chicago Board Options Exchange (CBOE) Volatility Index (VIX) measures expected
market volatility over the next 30 days and is often referred to as a “fear gauge”. Investing in VIX
is a way to manage and profit from rangebound volatility. There are different ways in which an

investor can invest in VIX:
• VIX futures let the investor hedge against extreme market conditions or speculate on future
volatility.
• VIX options contracts allow investors to protect their portfolios from extreme market swings.


===== Page 22 =====

8
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
•  VIX-based exchange-traded funds (ETFs) and exchange-traded notes (ETNs) provide an
easier way to trade volatility. These investments track VIX futures and enable investors to
benefit from market swings without dealing with derivatives directly.
Holding long-volatility positions in a portfolio acts much like taking out insurance: it proves highly
beneficial during periods of market stress—such as financial crises, the Covid-19 shock, and the

recent inflation-driven downturn—by providing superior downside protection compared to both
long-term government bonds and global equities, as highlighted by Meketa Investment Group’s
research. However, this protective quality tends to come at a cost in rising markets, as long-
volatility approaches often lag behind traditional assets during equity market recoveries, thus
potentially weighing on overall returns when markets are buoyant.
T o structure long-volatility strategies, investors typically use managed futures to capture returns

generated during extreme market conditions (crisis alpha). Managed futures are funds that use
futures contracts across asset classes such as equities, interest rates, commodities and currencies.
They rely on a rule-based model to decide when to buy or sell an investment. For instance, one
of the strategies used in volatile markets is trend following, where the aim is to generate profits
by taking long or short positions in the direction of the market trend. For example, in a highly

volatile upward-trending market, investors go long on assets that are in momentum.


===== Page 23 =====

9
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
Use volatility targeting to stabilise portfolio risk levels
Volatility targeting, an emerging quant strategy, is used to keep the portfolio’s risk at steady
levels, especially during periods of uncertainty. This strategy helps reduce the chance of big
losses, smoothing long-term returns and helping investors stay invested during market swings.
There are several ways to implement volatility targeting:

• Portfolio volatility targeting adjusts exposure to high-risk assets, such as equities and
derivatives, based on how volatile the markets are. Investments in risky assets are increased
when market volatility is low and reduced when volatility is high. Although simple and easy to
implement, this method ignores inter-asset dynamics and their impact on the overall portfolio.
• Dynamic volatility scaling adjusts allocations in a portfolio based on each asset’s/

investment’s individual volatility and the long-term correlations between assets. The goal is to
ensure that the risk contribution of the asset to the portfolio remains steady over time. After
individual asset risks are balanced, the overall portfolio’s risk is adjusted based on the level of
correlation among assets. Higher correlation among assets reduces diversification benefits, so
lower total exposure is essential to maintain consistent risk levels. While the method is robust,

frequent rebalancing could lead to higher transaction costs, which could drag down returns.
• Volatility switching is gaining popularity with the increased adoption of quant investing. This
approach uses quantitative models to identify historical patterns and predict future volatility.
The portfolio is then realigned to benefit from major market dislocations. This method allows
quick de-risking during significant market movements, without forcing portfolio realignments

during short-term fluctuations in the market. This keeps the transaction costs under control
and ensures that the portfolio’s risk levels remain stable across market phases.
• Adding a momentum filter within the volatility target strategy helps limit the downside,
especially in unfavourable markets. This approach enhances the effectiveness of volatility
targeting as it avoids investing in assets/investments that are dipping. When implemented in
an equity portfolio, this technique resembles the sector rotation strategy as both approaches

aim to allocate capital to sectors/stocks that could show strength during market downturns.
A comparative analysis of volatility-targeting strategies and passive investing using the S&P500
during significant periods of market stress, including the 2008 global financial crisis and the
COVID-19 crash, shows that dynamically adjusting exposure to market risk can enhance risk-
adjusted returns. However, performance is less consistent in low-volatility environments, where

increased leverage can amplify risk.
Lesson
# 7
Volatility targeting* vs. S&P500
Performance of relevant indices rebased to 100 on 31 December 1999
Source: Standard Chartered. * Based on the S&P500® Low Volatility Daily Risk Control 10% Index which combines the S&P500
Low Volatility Index with a cash component that accrues interest. It is dynamically rebalanced to target volatility of 10%.
Volatility is calculated as a function of historical returns.

1,000
800
600
400
200
0
Feb-00 Jan-03 Dec-05 Nov-08 Oct-11S ep-14 Aug-17 Jul-20 Jun-23 May-26
517.0
861.1
Volatil/i.rightty targeting strategy S&P 500


===== Page 24 =====

10
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
Keep your emotions and biases under check
Now that we have looked at some strategies to manage or even profit from volatility, let’s turn
our attention to a more fundamental concept. Markets are not always data-driven and are,
in fact, heavily influenced by investor sentiment. Fear and panic often lead to massive sell-offs
during market downturns. Similarly, euphoria and greed lead to heated valuations when the

market is on an uptrend. Intense emotions increase market volatility leading to extreme market
swings. Investment decisions influenced by emotions, sentiment and biases during volatile
markets could result in:
• Poor market timing, where investors end up buying after rallies or selling after losses –
essentially, missing opportunities for growth or booking poor returns
• Investors shifting their assets to cash and gold, resulting in a skewed level of diversification;

such portfolios often miss out on opportunities when markets make a recovery
• Investors abandoning their long-term financial plans owing to anxiety.
Several practical steps can help investors keep their emotions and biases under control,
especially amid market volatility:
• Developing self-awareness and recognising personal limitations, especially behavioural
biases, such as overconfidence (overestimating one’s own skills or knowledge), loss aversion

(fearing losses more than valuing equivalent gains) and herd mentality (following others
without sufficient research), can help investors avoid emotional reactions in decision-making.
By consciously identifying these patterns, investors create space to pause and reflect rather
than react impulsively, supporting more rational and objective investment choices
• A well-structured investment plan and a disciplined asset allocation strategy serve as
anchors for decision-making, providing stability and direction even during periods of market

turbulence. Relying on this framework across different market phases helps prevent impulsive
actions, ensuring that portfolio choices remain consistent with long-term objectives.
• Applying rule-based investing strategies, such as dollar-cost averaging, volatility targeting
and hedging, can help investors stay focused on their long-term financial objectives. These
approaches eliminate emotional decision-making, ensuring all investment choices are based

on data and logical reasoning.
• Consulting an expert provides objective guidance, helping investors remain disciplined
and committed to long-term goals. A professional adviser acts as a logical buffer between
emotions and financial decisions, ensuring choices are made rationally and in alignment with
established strategies.
Lesson
# 8


===== Page 25 =====

research material, independent research, an offer, recommendation or solicitation to enter into any transaction or adopt
any hedging, trading or investment strategy, in relation to any securities or other financial instruments. This document is
for general evaluation only. It does not take into account the specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular
needs of any particular person or class of persons and it has not been prepared for any particular person or class of persons.

You should not rely on any contents of this document in making any investment decisions. Before making any investment,
you should carefully read the relevant offering documents and seek independent legal, tax and regulatory advice. In
particular, we recommend you to seek advice regarding the suitability of the investment product, taking into account your
specific investment objectives, financial situation or particular needs, before you make a commitment to purchase the

regarding future performance. The value of investments, and the income from them, can go down as well as up, and you
may not recover the amount of your original investment. You are not certain to make a profit and may lose money. Any
forecast contained herein as to likely future movements in rates or prices or likely future events or occurrences constitutes
an opinion only and is not indicative of actual future movements in rates or prices or actual future events or occurrences

(as the case may be). This document must not be forwarded or otherwise made available to any other person without the
express written consent of the Standard Chartered Group (as defined below). Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in
England with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18. The Principal Office of the Company is situated
in England at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation

the ultimate parent company of Standard Chartered Bank, together with its subsidiaries and affiliates (including each
branch or representative office), form the Standard Chartered Group. Standard Chartered Global Private Bank is the
private banking division of Standard Chartered. Private banking activities may be carried out internationally by different
legal entities and affiliates within the Standard Chartered Group (each an “SC Group Entity”) according to local regulatory

requirements. Not all products and services are provided by all branches, subsidiaries and affiliates within the Standard
Chartered Group. Some of the SC Group Entities only act as representatives of Standard Chartered Global Private Bank and
may not be able to offer products and services or offer advice to clients.
Copyright © 2026, Accounting Research & Analytics, LLC d/b/a CFRA (and its affiliates, as applicable). Reproduction of
content provided by CFRA in any form is prohibited except with the prior written permission of CFRA. CFRA content is not

United States Securities and Exchange Commission or any other regulatory body. While CFRA exercised due care in compiling
this analysis, CFRA, ITS THIRD-PARTY SUPPLIERS, AND ALL RELATED ENTITIES SPECIFICALL Y DISCLAIM ALL WARRANTIES,
EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, ANY WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR A
PARTICULAR PURPOSE OR USE, to the full extent permitted by law, regarding the accuracy, completeness, or usefulness

CFRA, and such content shall not be used for any unlawful or unauthorized purposes. CFRA and any third-party providers, as
well as their directors, officers, shareholders, employees or agents do not guarantee the accuracy, completeness, timeliness
or availability of such content. In no event shall CFRA, its affiliates, or their third-party suppliers be liable for any direct,
indirect, special, or consequential damages, costs, expenses, legal fees, or losses (including lost income or lost profit and

Banking activities may be carried out internationally by different branches, subsidiaries and affiliates within the Standard
Chartered Group according to local regulatory requirements. Opinions may contain outright “buy”, “sell”, “hold” or other
opinions. The time horizon of this opinion is dependent on prevailing market conditions and there is no planned frequency
for updates to the opinion. This opinion is not independent of Standard Chartered Group’s trading strategies or positions.

Standard Chartered Group and/or its affiliates or its respective officers, directors, employee benefit programmes or
employees, including persons involved in the preparation or issuance of this document may at any time, to the extent
permitted by applicable law and/or regulation, be long or short any securities or financial instruments referred to in this
document or have material interest in any such securities or related investments. Therefore, it is possible, and you should

assume, that Standard Chartered Group has a material interest in one or more of the financial instruments mentioned


===== Page 26 =====

may have a financial interest in the debt or equity securities of this company/issuer. All covering strategist are licensed
to provide investment recommendations under Monetary Authority of Singapore or Hong Kong Monetary Authority. This
document must not be forwarded or otherwise made available to any other person without the express written consent of
Standard Chartered Group.
Sustainable Investments
Any ESG data used or referred to has been provided by Morningstar, Sustainalytics, MSCI or Bloomberg. Refer to 1)

Morningstar website under Sustainable Investing, 2) Sustainalytics website under ESG Risk Ratings, 3) MCSI website under
ESG Business Involvement Screening Research and 4) Bloomberg green, social & sustainability bonds guide for more
information. The ESG data is as at the date of publication based on data provided, is for informational purpose only and is
not warranted to be complete, timely, accurate or suitable for a particular purpose, and it may be subject to change. The

ESG data providers may not provide data coverage of all companies or securities in our Sustainable Investment Universe
or Fund Select funds. As a result, a small subset of companies or securities will not be in scope for exclusionary screening.
Sustainable Investments (SI): This refers to funds that have been classified as ‘ESG Intentional Investments - Overall’ by
Morningstar. SI funds have explicitly stated in their prospectus and regulatory filings that they either incorporate ESG

factors into the investment process or have a thematic focus on the environment, gender diversity, low carbon, renewable
energy, water or community development. For equity, it refers to shares/stocks issued by companies with Sustainalytics ESG
Risk Rating of Low/Negligible. For bonds, it refers to debt instruments issued by issuers with Sustainalytics ESG Risk Rating
of Low/Negligible, and/or those being certified green, social, sustainable bonds by Bloomberg. For structured products,

it refers to products that are issued by any issuer who has a Sustainable Finance framework that aligns with Standard
Chartered’s Green and Sustainable Product Framework, with underlying assets that are part of the Sustainable Investment
universe or separately approved by Standard Chartered’s Sustainable Finance Governance Committee. Sustainalytics ESG
risk ratings shown are factual and are not an indicator that the product is classified or marketed as “green”, “sustainable” or

Bahrain: This document is being distributed in Bahrain by Standard Chartered Bank, Bahrain Branch, having its address
at P.O. 29, Manama, Kingdom of Bahrain, is a branch of Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed by the Central Bank of
Bahrain as a conventional retail bank. Botswana: This document is being distributed in Botswana by, and is attributable
to, Standard Chartered Bank Botswana Limited which is a financial institution licensed under the Section 6 of the Banking

Act CAP 46.04 and is listed in the Botswana Stock Exchange. Brunei Darussalam: This document is being distributed in
Brunei Darussalam by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Brunei Branch) | Registration Number RFC/61 and
Standard Chartered Securities (B) Sdn Bhd | Registration Number RC20001003. Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated
in England with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853 Reference Number ZC18. Standard Chartered Securities (B) Sdn Bhd is

a limited liability company registered with the Registry of Companies with Registration Number RC20001003 and licensed
by Brunei Darussalam Central Bank as a Capital Markets Service License Holder with License Number BDCB/R/CMU/S3-CL
and it is authorised to conduct Islamic investment business through an Islamic window. China Mainland: This document is
being distributed in China by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (China) Limited which is mainly regulated by

National Financial Regulatory Administration (NFRA), State Administration of Foreign Exchange (SAFE), and People’s Bank
of China (PBOC). Hong Kong: In Hong Kong, this document, except for any portion advising on or facilitating any decision
on futures contracts trading, is distributed by Standard Chartered Bank (Hong Kong) Limited (“SCBHK”), a subsidiary of
Standard Chartered PLC. SCBHK has its registered address at 32/F, Standard Chartered Bank Building, 4-4A Des Voeux

Futures Commission (“SFC”) to carry on T ype 1 (dealing in securities), T ype 4 (advising on securities), T ype 6 (advising on
corporate finance) and T ype 9 (asset management) regulated activity under the Securities and Futures Ordinance (Cap.
571) (“SFO”) (CE No. AJI614). The contents of this document have not been reviewed by any regulatory authority in Hong
Kong and you are advised to exercise caution in relation to any offer set out herein. If you are in doubt about any of the

contents of this document, you should obtain independent professional advice. Any product named herein may not be
offered or sold in Hong Kong by means of any document at any time other than to “professional investors” as defined in the
SFO and any rules made under that ordinance. In addition, this document may not be issued or possessed for the purposes
of issue, whether in Hong Kong or elsewhere, and any interests may not be disposed of, to any person unless such person

is outside Hong Kong or is a “professional investor” as defined in the SFO and any rules made under that ordinance, or
as otherwise may be permitted by that ordinance. In Hong Kong, Standard Chartered Global Private Bank is the private
banking division of SCBHK, a subsidiary of Standard Chartered PLC. Ghana: Standard Chartered Bank Ghana Limited
accepts no liability and will not be liable for any loss or damage arising directly or indirectly (including special, incidental

on the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before making a commitment to invest in an
investment. T o unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to feedback.ghana@sc.com. Please do not


===== Page 27 =====

13
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
reply to this email. Call our Priority Banking on 0302610750 for any questions or service queries. You are advised not to
send any confidential and/or important information to Standard Chartered via e-mail, as Standard Chartered makes no
representations or warranties as to the security or accuracy of any information transmitted via e-mail. Standard Chartered

shall not be responsible for any loss or damage suffered by you arising from your decision to use e-mail to communicate
with the Bank. India: This document is being distributed in India by Standard Chartered in its capacity as a distributor of
mutual funds and referrer of any other third party financial products. Standard Chartered does not offer any ‘Investment
Advice’ as defined in the Securities and Exchange Board of India (Investment Advisers) Regulations, 2013 or otherwise.

Services/products related securities business offered by Standard Charted are not intended for any person, who is a
resident of any jurisdiction, the laws of which imposes prohibition on soliciting the securities business in that jurisdiction
without going through the registration requirements and/or prohibit the use of any information contained in this document.
Indonesia: This document is being distributed in Indonesia by Standard Chartered Bank, Indonesia branch, which is a

financial institution licensed and supervised by Otoritas Jasa Keuangan (Financial Service Authority) and Bank Indonesia.
Jersey: In Jersey, Standard Chartered Global Private Bank is the Registered Business Name of the Jersey Branch of Standard
Chartered Bank. The Jersey Branch of Standard Chartered Bank is regulated by the Jersey Financial Services Commission.
Copies of the latest audited accounts of Standard Chartered Bank are available from its principal place of business in

Jersey: PO Box 80, 15 Castle Street, St Helier, Jersey JE4 8PT. Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with
limited liability by Royal Charter in 1853 Reference Number ZC 18. The Principal Office of the Company is situated in England
at 1 Basinghall Avenue, London, EC2V 5DD. Standard Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority
and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. The Jersey Branch of Standard

Chartered Bank is also an authorised financial services provider under license number 44946 issued by the Financial Sector
Conduct Authority of the Republic of South Africa. Jersey is not part of the United Kingdom and all business transacted with
Standard Chartered Bank, Jersey Branch and other SC Group Entity outside of the United Kingdom, are not subject to some
or any of the investor protection and compensation schemes available under United Kingdom law. Kenya: This document

is being distributed in Kenya by and is attributable to Standard Chartered Bank Kenya Limited. Investment Products
and Services are distributed by Standard Chartered Investment Services Limited, a wholly owned subsidiary of Standard
Chartered Bank Kenya Limited that is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority in Kenya, as a Fund Manager. Standard
Chartered Bank Kenya Limited is regulated by the Central Bank of Kenya. Malaysia: This document is being distributed

in Malaysia by Standard Chartered Bank Malaysia Berhad (“SCBMB”). Recipients in Malaysia should contact SCBMB in
relation to any matters arising from, or in connection with, this document. This document has not been reviewed by the
Securities Commission Malaysia. The product lodgement, registration, submission or approval by the Securities Commission
of Malaysia does not amount to nor indicate recommendation or endorsement of the product, service or promotional

activity. Investment products are not deposits and are not obligations of, not guaranteed by, and not protected by SCBMB
or any of the affiliates or subsidiaries, or by Perbadanan Insurans Deposit Malaysia, any government or insurance agency.
Investment products are subject to investment risks, including the possible loss of the principal amount invested. SCBMB
expressly disclaim any liability and responsibility for any loss arising directly or indirectly (including special, incidental or

consequential loss or damage) arising from the financial losses of the Investment Products due to market condition. Nigeria:
This document is being distributed in Nigeria by Standard Chartered Bank Nigeria Limited (SCB Nigeria), a bank duly
licensed and regulated by the Central Bank of Nigeria. SCB Nigeria accepts no liability for any loss or damage arising directly
or indirectly (including special, incidental or consequential loss or damage) from your use of these documents. You should

seek advice from a financial adviser on the suitability of an investment for you, taking into account these factors before
making a commitment to invest in an investment. T o unsubscribe from receiving further updates, please send an email to
clientcare.ng@sc.com requesting to be removed from our mailing list. Please do not reply to this email. Call our Priority
Banking on 02 012772514 for any questions or service queries. SCB Nigeria shall not be responsible for any loss or damage

This document is being distributed in Pakistan by, and attributable to Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited having
its registered office at PO Box 5556, I.I Chundrigar Road Karachi, which is a banking company registered with State
Bank of Pakistan under Banking Companies Ordinance 1962 and is also having licensed issued by Securities & Exchange
Commission of Pakistan for Security Advisors. Standard Chartered Bank (Pakistan) Limited acts as a distributor of mutual

funds and referrer of other third-party financial products. Singapore: This document is being distributed in Singapore by,
and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank (Singapore) Limited (Registration No. 201224747C/ GST Group Registration
No. MR-8500053-0, “SCBSL”). Recipients in Singapore should contact SCBSL in relation to any matters arising from, or in
connection with, this document. SCBSL is an indirect wholly owned subsidiary of Standard Chartered Bank and is licensed

(a) OF THE SFA, OR ON THE BASIS THAT THE SECURITY OR SECURITIES-BASED DERIVATIVES CONTRACT MA Y ONL Y BE
ACQUIRED AT A CONSIDERATION OF NOT LESS THAN S$200,000 (OR ITS EQUIVALENT IN A FOREIGN CURRENCY) FOR
EACH TRANSACTION. Further, in relation to any security or securities-based derivatives contract, neither this document nor


===== Page 28 =====

14
InvesTips: Managing allocations in volatile markets | May 2026
the Issuer Documentation has been registered as a prospectus with the Monetary Authority of Singapore under the SFA.
Accordingly, this document and any other document or material in connection with the offer or sale, or invitation for
subscription or purchase, of the product may not be circulated or distributed, nor may the product be offered or sold, or be
made the subject of an invitation for subscription or purchase, whether directly or indirectly, to persons other than a relevant

person pursuant to section 275(1) of the SFA, or any person pursuant to section 275(1A) of the SFA, and in accordance with the
conditions specified in section 275 of the SFA, or pursuant to, and in accordance with the conditions of, any other applicable
provision of the SFA. In relation to any collective investment schemes referred to in this document, this document is for general
information purposes only and is not an offering document or prospectus (as defined in the SFA). This document is not, nor is

it intended to be (i) an offer or solicitation of an offer to buy or sell any capital markets product; or (ii) an advertisement of
an offer or intended offer of any capital markets product. Deposit Insurance Scheme: Singapore dollar deposits of non-bank
depositors are insured by the Singapore Deposit Insurance Corporation, for up to S$100,000 in aggregate per depositor per
Scheme member by law. Foreign currency deposits, dual currency investments, structured deposits and other investment

products are not insured. This advertisement has not been reviewed by the Monetary Authority of Singapore. T aiwan: SC
Group Entity or Standard Chartered Bank (T aiwan) Limited (“SCB (T aiwan)”) may be involved in the financial instruments
contained herein or other related financial instruments. The author of this document may have discussed the information
contained herein with other employees or agents of SC or SCB (T aiwan). The author and the above-mentioned employees

of SC or SCB (T aiwan) may have taken related actions in respect of the information involved (including communication
with customers of SC or SCB (T aiwan) as to the information contained herein). The opinions contained in this document
may change, or differ from the opinions of employees of SC or SCB (T aiwan). SC and SCB (T aiwan) will not provide any
notice of any changes to or differences between the above-mentioned opinions. This document may cover companies

with which SC or SCB (T aiwan) seeks to do business at times and issuers of financial instruments. Therefore, investors should
understand that the information contained herein may serve as specific purposes as a result of conflict of interests of SC
or SCB (T aiwan). SC, SCB (T aiwan), the employees (including those who have discussions with the author) or customers
of SC or SCB (T aiwan) may have an interest in the products, related financial instruments or related derivative financial

products contained herein; invest in those products at various prices and on different market conditions; have different
or conflicting interests in those products. The potential impacts include market makers’ related activities, such as dealing,
investment, acting as agents, or performing financial or consulting services in relation to any of the products referred to in
this document. UAE: DIFC - Standard Chartered Bank is incorporated in England with limited liability by Royal Charter 1853

Authority and Prudential Regulation Authority. Standard Chartered Bank, Dubai International Financial Centre having its
offices at Dubai International Financial Centre, Building 1, Gate Precinct, P.O. Box 999, Dubai, UAE is a branch of Standard
Chartered Bank and is regulated by the Dubai Financial Services Authority (“DFSA”). This document is intended for use only
by Professional Clients and is not directed at Retail Clients as defined by the DFSA Rulebook. In the DIFC we are authorised

to provide financial services only to clients who qualify as Professional Clients and Market Counterparties and not to Retail
Clients. As a Professional Client you will not be given the higher retail client protection and compensation rights and if you
use your right to be classified as a Retail Client we will be unable to provide financial services and products to you as we
do not hold the required license to undertake such activities. For Islamic transactions, we are acting under the supervision

of our Shariah Supervisory Committee. Relevant information on our Shariah Supervisory Committee is currently available
on the Standard Chartered Bank website in the Islamic banking section. For residents of the UAE – Standard Chartered
UAE (“SC UAE”) is licensed by the Central Bank of the U.A.E. SC UAE is licensed by Securities and Commodities Authority to
practice Promotion Activity. SC UAE does not provide financial analysis or consultation services in or into the UAE within the

meaning of UAE Securities and Commodities Authority Decision No. 48/r of 2008 concerning financial consultation and
financial analysis. Uganda: Our Investment products and services are distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Uganda
Limited, which is licensed by the Capital Markets Authority as an investment adviser. United Kingdom: In the UK, Standard
Chartered Bank is authorised by the Prudential Regulation Authority and regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and

Prudential Regulation Authority. This communication has been approved by Standard Chartered Bank for the purposes of
Section 21 (2) (b) of the United Kingdom’s Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (“FSMA”) as amended in 2010 and 2012
only. Standard Chartered Bank (trading as Standard Chartered Global Private Bank) is also an authorised financial services
provider (license number 45747) in terms of the South African Financial Advisory and Intermediary Services Act, 2002. The

Materials have not been prepared in accordance with UK legal requirements designed to promote the independence of
investment research, and that it is not subject to any prohibition on dealing ahead of the dissemination of investment
research. Vietnam: This document is being distributed in Vietnam by, and is attributable to, Standard Chartered Bank
(Vietnam) Limited which is mainly regulated by State Bank of Vietnam (SBV). Recipients in Vietnam should contact Standard

Chartered Bank (Vietnam) Limited for any queries regarding any content of this document. Zambia: This document is
distributed by Standard Chartered Bank Zambia Plc, a company incorporated in Zambia and registered as a commercial
bank and licensed by the Bank of Zambia under the Banking and Financial Services Act Chapter 387 of the Laws of Zambia.
